ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U2	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act on the Organisation of Health Services. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft law amending the Alcohol Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Fourthly, the draft law amending the law and the law amending the law on traffic. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U3	Thank you. I have adopted four draft laws. If they comply with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will treat them according to this Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the plenary session of the Riigikogu be approved on the agenda of this week. Please take a stand and vote. There are 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U4	The first item on our agenda is the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur, Jüri Morozov, Barbi Pilvre, Rannar Vasiliev, Karel Rüütli, Etti Kagarov, Tiit Tammsaare, Rainer Vakra, Heljo Pikhofi, Inara Luise, Lembit Kaljuvee, Jaan Õunapuu and Kalev Eagkas, which was submitted to the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson on 16 June. On behalf of the heirs, a member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur will perform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U5	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I am pleased that the debate that started last Wednesday in the Riigikogu can continue today in this Chamber. Today, however, we are approaching the issue from a slightly different angle, from the point of view of the Emergency Act. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U6	Neeme Big, one moment, please! Thank you. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U7	According to § 34 (8) of the Emergency Act, cash circulation and payment services are vital services, the continuity of which is ensured and organised by Eesti Pank. Paragraph 35 of the Emergency Act provides that the authority that organises the continuity of vital services coordinates the continuity of vital services and advises the providers of vital services; it itself carries out or appoints its subsidiary to supervise the continuity of vital services. Members of the Riigikogu who submitted an inquiry are aware that "service continuity' and "access to service' are two different concepts. The problem is that, within the meaning of the Emergency Act, the continuity of action becomes empty unless the basic availability of these same vital services is ensured. The number of ATMs has decreased by 12% over the last few years, and the number of branches by 35%. At the same time, according to Statistics Estonia, 20% of people aged 15 to 65 have never used the Internet in Estonia. On the basis of the above, we have two questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. First of all, according to the Emergency Act, cash circulation and payment services are vital services, the continuity of which is managed by Eesti Pank. In its regulations, Eesti Pank has set minimum performance requirements for these services, which address the requirements for four major banks to ensure the continuity of central information systems and devices. What are the reasons why, alongside technical requirements, there are no minimum service requirements for cash circulation and payment services? Just as a hint, the answer that this is not explicitly required by law would clearly be too simple. Secondly, the trend of reduced banking services in rural areas continues and has already reached regional centres. The number of both branches and payment machines has been significantly reduced. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 96% of the offices in the cities were located at the end of last year. What solutions has Eesti Pank discussed to ensure the availability of uniform cash and payment services across the board? Let's hope for a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U8	Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for the questions that have been asked. I'll try to give them answers. To begin with, I understand why people are concerned about the universal availability of banking services. Eesti Pank does not prefer one payment method to another. Cash is an official method of payment and therefore, according to Eesti Pank, it should be available everywhere in Estonia through flexible solutions. Eesti Pank works every day to supply cash to Estonian companies and people. We offer the commercial banks cash services in a flexible way, we give out cash and we receive it on all working days, but in exceptional circumstances we are even more flexible. The aim is to ensure smooth and undisturbed cash circulation. In addition, we manage the state's cash reserves and check the quality of Estonian cash every day. Tomorrow Eesti Pank will release ten euro banknotes in the second series of the euro, which will be stronger, more durable and more effective than the first series of banknotes. As Governor of Eesti Pank, I would like to confirm that cash is not going anywhere. I personally like to use cash and I am proud of the quality of Estonian euro cash. Access to cash is important, but at the same time it is a complex concern that lacks rapid and simple solutions. This is why it needs to be discussed, and Eesti Pank is pleased that we can participate in the working group convened by Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, which should provide solutions. Eesti Pank estimates that the availability of banking services in Estonia is not a problem that should be solved through the Emergency Act, but this does not mean that this concern should not be addressed. Next, I will answer the question concerning the Emergency Act, and then I will address the availability of banking services. Coming to the first question of inquiry, I say that as Governor of Eesti Pank, I have introduced minimum requirements for the provision of cash and payment services in emergency situations. The regulation requires four major banks in Estonia to restore cash and payment services in an emergency within 12 hours to 70% of the normal service volume. How banks restore services is up to them, but they must describe the plan for restoring services to Eesti Pank, which in turn will forward this information to the Ministry of the Interior. This phase has already been completed. In a few years, when the situation has changed, these plans will be reviewed. In my understanding, the point of the Emergency Act is to ensure that vital services are restored in an emergency. The Emergency Act is not designed to solve this problem if people do not constantly have access to an important service. Neither is the Emergency Act designed to influence trends in urbanisation or peripheralisation. This is a regional policy issue which should not be resolved by the Emergency Act. Regional policy, however, is the preserve of the Riigikogu, the government and local governments. On the other hand, cash circulation issues are important to Eesti Pank and we want to participate in the development of cash circulation policy. This brings me to the second question of asking, to which I will explain Eesti Pank's views on the universal availability of cash and payment services. As I have already mentioned, Eesti Pank's aim in the area of cash circulation is to provide sufficient cash to commercial banks and to ensure the quality of cash. Commercial banks supply cash to people and businesses in Estonia. This solution works all over the world. In no country is Eesti Pank aware of the task of maintaining a cash network that serves people and businesses. This would mean very large investments and fixed costs for Eesti Pank and the result would probably be awkward and unreasonable use of public money. Commercial banks should be able to handle this task better and more effectively. At the same time, Eesti Pank's task is to organise cash circulation and we consider it important to participate in finding solutions to ensure the availability of the service. Access to banking services is a global problem. This is not a unique problem for Estonia. In Australia, for example, the committee examined this issue ten years ago. Similar issues have also been discussed in Canada, Sweden, the United States, Britain, for example. I think they have been discussed almost everywhere in Europe. The decline in the number of bank office networks and ATMs is a trend that is taking place around the world and is linked to technological developments, demographic factors and changes in consumer preferences. In part, this is a natural development that doesn't make sense to resist. At the same time, it poses difficulties in accessing banking services and needs mitigation. Problems may arise for older people and people with reduced mobility, as well as for small businesses or those who live on land or do not use the Internet. Active Internet users living in Tallinn or Tartu should not be the only target group for providing services. The technological developments mentioned above mean the spread of electronic payments and Internet banking, which reduces the need for both cash and bank entry. This development depends on both supply and demand. Surveys in Estonia also show that people increasingly prefer bank cards as means of payment and that banking operations are increasingly carried out in the Internet Bank. This trend continues. Thus, consumers' own preferences are also changing and the need to go to bank offices and use cash is decreasing. This is part of the inevitable technological progress and must be taken into account in the entire debate here. Demographic development literally means urbanisation in this context. Urbanization is also taking place in Estonia. This further enhances the impact of technological development. In combination with a decrease in customers, demand will decrease and supply will decrease together with a decrease in demand. This is the case for all types of services, not just banking services. For example, Swedbank has published detailed data to justify why they are closing offices. They pointed out, among other things, that only 13% of the customers in their offices used closed offices before closing and that the number of cash transactions has halved in five years. Larger commercial banks in Estonia and elsewhere in the world have made their service offer more efficient, which has meant, among other things, closing offices and ATMs in rural areas. Here it is useful to make a comparison with Sweden, where the parent banks of our larger banks are located. As of the end of 2013, slightly more than half of the Swedish branches were cash-free, and in Estonia this figure is about 23%, or twice as low, according to recent data. I do not believe that commercial banks should maintain an unreasonable network of offices and ATMs. It doesn't really matter whether it's maintained by bank customers or taxpayers, it's an unreasonablely costly solution. At the same time, however, commercial banks should better formulate their understanding of the availability of banking services and come up with socially acceptable solutions themselves. In conclusion, Eesti Pank estimates that the provision of cash and payment services in Estonia could be economically efficient as a general principle. At the same time, access to banking services must be available to people everywhere in Estonia, so we need to find flexible alternative solutions. The next question is how to offer these flexible solutions. Although this issue is being discussed by Minister Palo's working group, I also offer opportunities based on the experience of other countries that banks and the state could consider in the debate on the availability of banking services. The first is the "cash-back" system in shops, which means that people, paying for food at the store with a bank card, can have more money taken from their own account and get it out of that shop in cash. To this end, however, commercial banks should offer the possibility that the merchant should not pay the bank a percentage for the cash to be withdrawn. The winning of commercial banks would be more efficient cash network, merchants would have more customers in the shops and people would have a safe and convenient opportunity to withdraw cash. Basically, they're all winners. Secondly, so-called "State Points" or "broad-purpose offices" where the state, banks and other companies would pool a number of services. For example, rural people can make payments with a certain regularity and receive cash, medicines, letters, newspapers, etc. It is likely that people should pre-order money and medicines, but this would bring the service closer to people. It would be more sensible for the state and businesses than for one task offices. Thirdly, public procurement for the provision of a service. The state orders a service for the provision of banking services in rural areas, either through joint procurement by central government, state enterprise or local authorities. This solution has been used, for example, by the Swedish postal and telecommunications agency PTS, which awarded public contracts on behalf of the government in 2008 to serve 15 municipalities and 73 regions with cash. Fourthly, there could be requirements or good practices for closing a bank office, especially in rural areas. In Canada, for example, there are legal requirements for the closure of a bank office and in Australia the banking union has established "good practices" for the closure of a bank office. The result is the same, you just have to write down what conditions can be closed, how long can you give advance notice, how to notify it, etc. Fifthly, cooperation between municipalities and banks in training people. Banks could provide regular training for the use of Internet banking, for example. The municipality would help to identify who needs training and bring together interested parties, while the banks would help to organise training with people, computers and know-how. Last, sixth, cooperation between municipalities and banks in offering cash. With the help of commercial banks, the municipality would mediate cash and payment services for people who have difficulty in moving or using a computer. In particular, it could be suitable for helping older people or those who have difficulty in moving or seeing. The municipality could determine who people in the region are experiencing these difficulties and, on this basis, would provide assistance in taking cash home or, for example, in paying an electricity bill. These opportunities, based on the experience of other countries, are certainly not ready for immediate implementation, but it is worth discussing so that we can offer cash and payment services to Estonian people from all over the country. I am convinced that, above all, commercial banks, but also the state, can offer better solutions. I call on commercial banks, public authorities and local authorities to participate actively in the debate on the availability of banking services. Eesti Pank is certainly willing to participate in the discussions. I don't think there's any way to rule it out in advance. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U10	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! As was the case this weekend, the ATM in Blackwater didn't work and, at the end of the day, the payment terminal didn't work at Konsum, where the machine was located. So people picked up their basket full of groceries, but you just had to leave it at the store and walk away. On top of that, an old lady who had a hop chimney sweep this weekend to wipe the chimney got a neighbor's car, drove 30 kilometers to an ATM, but had to go back empty-handed. General solutions may be such and different, but can you tell me what should have been done in this particular case? What is a flexible solution in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U12	Thank you for your question. I hope that such situations are rather exceptional. We expect these systems to work, but there could be malfunctions anywhere. I remember when I went to the singing party this summer, it wasn't a real glitch, but card payments didn't work and had to pay in cash because the communication lines were overloaded. This suggests that we cannot give up cash and deal only with settlement money, because we are not quite ready for it. But these are the kind of specific cases that, I think, can come up anywhere. How many of these systems can be duplicated? Perhaps in more densely populated areas, it is possible to use another if one option does not work. But if there really is an area where there is only one option, and if this last ATM breaks down, then it will naturally make life difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U13	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U14	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I cannot in any way agree with your view that cash circulation is part of regional policy, not monetary policy. I think it is rather the opposite, or at the very least it is both, but certainly not that it is primarily regional policy. You described the process for quite a while. I agree that this is a global problem. You also said you understood the problem. As a solution, you suggested that the state could do things, commercial banks could do things, local authorities could do things, and there could also be good practices. But you never mentioned that Eesti Pank could do something different or something more than it is now. Are you absolutely convinced that there is no role for Eesti Pank here, and there is no possibility that, at least, this trend in Estonia will be slowed down?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U15	Thank you for your question. When we come to regional policy, there are two issues. Firstly, the geographical dimension, which is, I think, the issue of regional policy. Banks may, for commercial reasons, decide that one place pays to provide a service and another place does not pay to provide it, but the state may have another understanding that there might be a little more of that service. I think that the supply of certain regions, which the banks themselves do not want to provide, could be the same regional policy issue as land buses, connections to islands or other such things. Another issue related to the wider availability of cash is closer to the central bank. Although, as I mentioned, I do not know any central banks whose task would be to determine exactly how much money should circulate in a certain area. But as I said at the end of my speech, I will not rule out any solution. If we discuss together and it turns out there's some reasonable way the central bank can contribute, why not? However, now, looking at these solutions, which other sparsely populated countries, our neighbouring countries have used, we have not seen anywhere in mapping this landscape that the central bank has been given a micro-level role. But, of course, you can look into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U16	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U17	Thank you. I will ask the following question, trying to understand the position of Eesti Pank in this area. Did I get it right that your cash circulation dimension is between Eesti Pank and the banks offering services in Estonia, for which you feel responsible, but what is going on from there, the movement of cash to people and back is, as if, out of this concept?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U18	Thank you for your question. Internally, there is a division of labour between different institutions. Usually, the role of the central bank in Estonia, Finland or anywhere is that if the central bank senses the demand that has arisen in one way or another, especially through commercial banks, the central bank ensures that this demand is covered and that there is no disruption, at least not deficit or deficit. The way money moves forward from these centres or commercial banks has traditionally been resolved in relations between commercial banks and citizens. It's a common central bank model. I don't know of cases where there would have been a more detailed increase in demand from the central bank or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U19	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U20	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr President, I am pleased to hear that you are willing to participate in the discussions in order to promote cash circulation in some way here in Estonia. Of course, on the one hand, there is a problem with older people, with pensioners, on the other hand, the very expensive management of payment terminals is causing problems. Often small shoppers, especially their own people, say that it would be good and pay cash, and it would be cheaper for both. Can't some new ideas be applied here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U21	Thank you for your question. I think there might be some kind of innovation that will make this thing cheaper. At present, it is sometimes said that settlement money is cheaper than cash. If you look at this example you have given, it is clear that in some situations this service is expensive. A trader who may not have such a high turnover should not start purchasing computers, all kinds of programs and terminals. In the summer I went to the Türi flower fair. They all settled in cash there, and I think it would be absurd for every trader there to start getting a terminal. I think there is no point in fetishing one or another form of payment. If they exist and can be used flexibly, they complement each other. I think it's gonna take a lot of time before we can very clearly move in one direction or the other. The use of cash as a ratio is decreasing, but I think it has not disappeared yet, rather the demand for cash has started to grow quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U22	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! We know that Swedbank has the largest market share in Estonia. At the same time, we know that Swedbank has very high fees, which are much higher than in the mother country of this bank in Sweden. Why is that? In Estonia, labour is cheaper, real estate is cheaper, services are cheaper. Why, then, do our people receive greater rewards? Can Eesti Pank do nothing to limit such discrimination?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U24	Thank you for your question. We've been doing some research on this, and I think this material might be off the grid. It is not as easy to compare fees from different countries, as one service is a little more expensive in one country, the other service is a little more expensive in another. Often, packages are made for customers, for example, where a monthly fee is paid, but then there are both or so several payments per month free of charge, etc. A very simple comparison cannot be made. But our final assessment was that if you look at the complete packages, not just the individual payments, there are little differences between Sweden, Finland or even Latvia or Lithuania. But single payments are more expensive here. Of course, it can be said, as you said, that we have lower labour costs and therefore the whole package could be cheaper. This issue could be moved forward, but I think that the prices of services are usually viewed by the competition authorities. This is, above all, a consumer protection issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U25	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Two and a half years ago, on 9 February 2012, your predecessor, Andres Lipstok, responded to the question of access to cash by members of the Central Party Group. So much time has passed, but nothing has really changed, except that ATMs have been reduced. But can you tell me how this is organised in Finland? As far as I am concerned, commercial banks in Finland have agreed to manage ATMs together and maintain them in order. This system should be called OTTO. How has the Finnish state managed to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U27	Thank you. There is, yes, such a system in Finland. As far as I am concerned, it is not legally established that they should do so; they simply agreed with each other that they would implement such a system. This has been discussed in Estonia all along, but so far commercial banks have not reached an agreement between themselves. The question is, would that solve the problem? It is certainly worth looking at the example of Finland. I don't know all the details, but I think there's still a tendency, like in other parts of the world, that the number of ATMs has decreased. Maybe it's been reduced a little bit more slowly now than it would have been if it wasn't for that deal. This option has been proposed as a solution, but there are certain problems here. One thing is that if there is a single network, each bank on its own will essentially lose responsibility, the connection between the bank and the customer will be interrupted, the responsibility will fall on the ATM company and citizens will find it harder to influence the activities of the banks. The second issue is that if it is an independent company that has to cover its costs, its cost-effectiveness criterion may prove even more pressing. This means that it is not certain that it has supplies so that it can offer all these things in less profitable areas. This is really one option that could be considered. But I think the part of the ATMs may have been over-emphasised. These are pretty expensive machines. They are certainly well suited in some areas where security is guaranteed and sufficient turnover is available. But in some other region where the turnover is much less, perhaps another solution would be more correct. I was talking about getting cash from stores and whatever. There are also examples in the Nordic countries that a citizen can obtain basic banking services from a shop.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U28	Maimu Berg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the Bank. You have answered this question to some extent, but I still come back to the fact that if there are large gatherings, such as fairs and song parties, there will be problems. At the end of last week, too, there was a problem that people did not receive cash at Palamuse. Shouldn't there still be a specific solution? The bank buses haven't been seen there lately either. What do you propose for a solution in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U30	Thank you for your question. I think it would even be good for the bank in terms of advertising if customers could be served at such an event. It may be difficult to foresee in law that certain events necessarily require a bank bus to appear, but this should simply be normal activity from the point of view of the reputation of the banks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U31	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U32	Thank you very much. Mr Hansson! I'm going to ask you a question as a visionary. We are proud of our digital signature system. We are all, or most of us are also customers of electronic banks. Does it seem to you that one day such a system may also have some kind of charge, such as cable TV, that we can print our own cash or cash equivalent at home using all the above elements? Electronics and this part of mankind's skills develop so quickly that what is possible in a few years' time is hard to even imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U33	Thank you for your question. No, I didn't think there could be such a solution, but in a few decades, when things are developing, why not? The world is changing. I don't know how to judge such a thing. But I think knowing that one day in the future such a thing might start will probably not help solve the problems that those who asked the question referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U34	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, We are often told that bank fees are too high. But that depends on where to look. The client thinks they're too big, but the banks say they need to cover the cost of providing the service. How does our banking competition work? Is the competition situation what it must be? Several banks offer services on the market and fight to get customers, while we are dominated by banks of Scandinavian origin. How does Eesti Pank assess the competitive situation of the Estonian banking market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U36	Thank you for your question. I think it is quite difficult to answer a couple of questions like this. Of course, in a larger country with more banks, it is a little easier to create competition. We don't have enough banks. Therefore, in several regions, but also in some segments of the business, there are fewer options in some areas than there could be. So, if there is any way to increase competition in some areas through some kind of change, it would certainly be welcome. On the other hand, we remember the booming period when the competition got a little out of hand, everyone started, say, to continue to borrow money too cheaply and there were loan losses. We do not want such extremely aggressive competition in banking, which leads to dumping and therefore to losses. One thing, which is certainly worse than a super-cable bank, is a bank in extreme loss, which in the end also means higher costs for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U37	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U38	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! In Finland, but especially in Germany, these so-called 'cash-back' systems are common. These are alternative but highly innovative measures for banks. If a pussy goes to a shop in the country and has to pay EUR 10 for the goods, she will pay EUR 50 and will receive EUR 40 in cash. Why is there no such innovative measure in Estonia yet, even though the availability of cash has been a problem in the country for a long time? If there are such agreements between banks and country shops, it does not matter whether ATMs are maintained because there is a solution. Why are these things moving so slowly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U39	Thank you. The answer to the question, why is it exactly like this, I owe you. But I brought it as the first possible solution. This does not solve all the problems, of course, but in other countries where I have lived, there has been such an opportunity. Of course, that doesn't mean you can go to the store and take out a lot of money. If the merchant happens to have cash, he can give it to you, and if he can't today, maybe he can get it tomorrow. Perhaps there are some shortcomings in the legislation, perhaps it is a matter of fees, but I think it can be implemented if it is made sufficiently attractive to service providers. However, we may not agree with the fact that, collectively, it is necessary to pay very high fees to get the money. So perhaps the issue should be negotiated in such a way that the service is ultimately either free of charge, because it helps banks to deal with the cash economy, or with a moderate fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U40	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U41	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr President, Before I ask you a question, I'll give you my opinion. You were talking about a system in this region and in the neighbouring countries. It seems to me that there is a rare situation in Estonia, as people are basically serving only two banks here and competition is relatively small. These banks, frankly, are not particularly interested in serving their customers well, I mean small customers in particular. Clearly, the only way to resolve this issue is through regulation. At what level do you think this regulation must be established, either at the level of the Ministry, the Central Bank or the Riigikogu? Who should monitor compliance with this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U42	Thank you for your question. Not being a lawyer, I don't know exactly what level these things have to be regulated. The ideal option would be if we could agree and if the banks themselves offered, as I said, an understanding of how these things are going to develop and under what conditions the services will be offered. If this understanding is acceptable, a solution can be achieved not very bureaucraticly and in a market economy. However, if this option does not exist and society as a whole thinks that more is needed, then different options can be reviewed. At every opportunity, there is certainly a way to apply these things. Perhaps some may need a legislative amendment, some may need some kind of procurement or some kind of institutional development. Again, I mention those points of state that could at the same time satisfy people's cash needs and the need for medicines, all in one place. I don't know how much such a thing has been used in the world, but for now it seems like a promising solution. For each option, a cost-benefit analysis should certainly be considered. We need to be convinced that if there is more to pay, the result we get is what we expect, and ultimately, we think that this is a good way to use taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U43	Honourable! Paragraph 140 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which deals with enquiries, gives a member of the Riigikogu the opportunity to ask only one question. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! As far as I know, SEB and the old-named Estonian Post have signed some kind of cooperation agreement, and part of the post office in Estonia is operated by the so-called post office bank. Has Eesti Pank heard that another bank, in particular Swedbank, is negotiating with Eesti Post? If these negotiations do not take place, then suddenly Eesti Pank will assume the role of mediator in order to bring the two parties together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U45	Thank you for your question. I think it's been mentioned. I haven't been following the subject exactly, but I think during the summer it was offered an opportunity to examine it. I don't know if this has already resulted in results, what exactly is the situation and what these failures could be. This is indeed one solution that already exists because at least a network of post offices exists. It's used by a bank. If the other bank comes in, could we do something like this? It may be possible for three or four banks to join it, but then banks could probably fail because they don't all want to be in the same place. But it is certainly worth checking whether it is possible to access several banks online at a single service point, be they post offices or shops.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U46	Thank you, Governor of Eesti Pank! I'm opening negotiations. Neeme the Great, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U47	Mr President! First of all, I repeat one of my earlier statements that if a country decides to give up cash, citizens in that country are likely to rethink cash and take up their own currency. To confirm this, I quote from the website of Eesti Pank, which reads as follows: "As a means of payment, cash is unique. When making retail payments, cash is the most widely used and fastest available means of payment, as well as the most secure means of payment in exceptional circumstances. Cash is the cheapest payment instrument for making low value retail payments with cash payments, the average transaction cost is lower than when using comparable electronic payment options. Cash is universal and can also be used to make payments by people who do not have a bank account, do not have access to it or do not have access to electronic means of payment. The use of cash enables consumers to monitor their spending more closely. Cash is both a means of payment and a store of value. Cash is hard to fake and to use for fraud. ' Such good talk is on the website of Eesti Pank. I'll come back to the emergency law for a second. Yes, it's true, the emergency law is designed to deal with emergencies, but also to prepare for them. It is also because of the important and good law that it lists vital services. They are covered by only two laws in our lawroom: the law on permanent settlements in the smaller islands and the law on emergency. It is true, too, that the Emergency Act does not explicitly address the availability of vital services, but the continuity of their performance. The concept of vital service is also not directly open in the Emergency Act, but the legislator's sense of ability to perceive a list of vital services. While certain services (an ambulance, electricity supply, telephone network, postal network, public order, rescue, payment services, cash circulation, etc.) are identified as vital, this means that the State considers their continued operation necessary to ensure the normal functioning of society in all circumstances and is vital. In terms of the functioning of society, business continuity and accessibility are inseparable concepts. The question arises as to what would be the point of writing down requirements to ensure that the power supply is restored after a blackout if there was one plug in each county centre from which the power can be taken. Or what network would be a postal network that would deliver mail to the county centre and leave it waiting for the addressee to pick up the shipment himself? It would be equally incomprehensible to ensure the continuity of cash by accessing cash, i.e. services that allow contributions to a payment account, and services that allow cash to be withdrawn from a payment account, would only be available in larger centres. Such an approach would render both the concept of emergency law and the concept of vital service empty. Last Wednesday, the Riigikogu Hall dealt with the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act, with which the initiators proposed to add an obligation to Eesti Pank to ensure the availability of cash. The draft was not supported as it is more appropriate to include legal requirements to ensure access to cash in the Credit Institutions Act. I quote the view of the Government of the Republic: 'Legal certainty would be guaranteed by a scheme where credit institutions have an obligation to ensure the availability of cash and Eesti Pank would have the right to specify the conditions for access to cash under the mandate rule. 'In the event of non-compliance with the sanctions, the Financial Inspectorate should instead be the Financial Inspectorate. Making an obligation in the public interest and imposing sanctions on companies by Eesti Pank's regulation would not be a good solution; it must be resolved at the level of the law. This fact, however, does not exempt Eesti Pank from the tasks already assigned to it by law. Eesti Pank cannot simply say here, as it did in a letter to the municipalities of Läänemaa, that Eesti Pank's role in organising cash circulation is to ensure that Estonian residents and businesses have sufficient cash reserves. It is not only a matter of sufficient cash supply and of commercial bank-to-bank cash circulation, but it is precisely as the issue was raised in the Chamber. It is also a question of moving cash between the bank and the person. The task of Eesti Pank is to organise the circulation of money in general. Its task is also to advise the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues. Ensuring the continuity and availability of vital services, not one by one, is certainly an economic policy issue. We all need this advice well and desperately now. I am very pleased with the presentation by the President of the Bank, and I am pleased that Eesti Pank has actively started to offer concrete solutions during the current process of seeking and finding solutions and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, will contribute to resolving the common problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U49	Mr President! Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Socialists for coming back to this great Chamber of the Riigikogu with this question! On 9 February 2012, the Central Party Group submitted a similar inquiry to the Governor of Eesti Pank, Andres Lipstok, and then the issue was Virtsu's problem, where the last ATM in the region was abolished. As you have heard, Eesti Pank has no direct obligation to deal with this issue, but commercial banks are profit oriented, and it is not in their interest. We read last week the recommendation of Swedbank's leader, Perens, that people should move to where there are jobs. After all, it could be extended to move to where there are ATMs, or Tallinn. If this is the regional policy of the entire Estonian state, then there is something very wrong. I have a recommendation for the Social Democrats. You belong to the government of the Republic of Estonia and are a coalition partner. If the government doesn't take control here and take the lead in these matters, who else should? Others have different interests. Invite the parties: representatives of municipalities, communications agencies and shops. Somehow, this issue must be resolved so that Estonia does not finally run out of people. Or discuss the example of Finland, where the ATM system has been able to work together. It's called OTTO and it works. How can Estonia not do this? Good friends of the Social Democrats, get on with it, you've been given this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U50	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Tarmo Tamm, thank you for such a wonderful proposal. But you don't have to present it anymore, because the Social Democrats have already begun to solve this problem and very forcefully. The Social Democrat Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo, has called a working group with representatives from a number of organisations. This task force has been working very hard to resolve this problem. The problem in rural areas is no longer only the availability of cash, but the availability of the service as a whole. If a commercial bank closes the office, the question arises as to what service will be provided in the future by a service point that will remain there, whether it meets the requirements that rural people still have. If we have talked about regional policy at all lately, the members of the IRL have also talked about administrative reform, then in fact, we should realise that this very widely recommended "pulling centre" must not be a place with only a bank point, but also a bank office where more cash can be received. The only thing that matters on Earth is where and how tightly ATMs are located. Life goes on and we should be looking for alternatives here too. As the Governor of Eesti Pank has already said, the working group is looking for new, alternative solutions, and one of these is the so-called money-back system. This means that commercial banks enter into contracts with land shops. If, for example, a rural person goes to a shop and has to make a payment of EUR 20, he will not pay EUR 20, but will pay EUR 40 with a card and receive EUR 20 in cash. Small sums of money are quite conceivable from the store. That's the way our commercial banks should go. Why hasn't it been done? The Governor of Eesti Pank said he didn't know that. But I'm sure the task force of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is working in this direction. So, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the Social Democrats have taken this matter very seriously, and we hope that if the solutions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs bring the solutions to the Riigikogu in October, we will only hear the messages of joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U52	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Would Ardo Hansson like to speak? No, I don't. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U53	The next question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev and Tarmo Tamm Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Urve Palole. Kalev Kallo will receive the floor on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U54	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. Most of the re-independence governments of the Republic of Estonia, especially the last two, have made every effort to prevent Estonia from becoming a maritime state and to remain only a maritime state. A merchant fleet is an integral part of a single sea state. It is precisely because Estonia no longer has any cargo ships that the last governments have contributed with or without action. Just before this year's European Maritime Day on 20 May, we learned that efforts have borne fruit and that the last significant cargo ship, i.e. a cargo ship weighing 500 tonnes or more, has left under the Estonian flag. This remarkable event took place on April 16. When the European Union has started to celebrate Maritime Day in order to draw citizens' attention to the growing role of the maritime sector in our daily lives and to the fact that we are connected to the world through the seas and oceans, Estonian governments have considered the importance of maritime and maritime transport to be nothing. This is borne out by all the facts about what has been done so far. The National Development Plan "Estonia's Maritime Policy" was developed and approved by the government only on 2 August 2012, which is the 21st year of Estonia's restoration. The same development plan provided that the implementation plan for the years 2013 to 2016 would be developed and approved within three months of the approval of the development plan. However, the implementation plan was approved by the Government on 12 December 2013, one year and four months after the approval of the development plan. It took more than five times longer than the government itself had foreseen. In the light of this activity, the performance set out in Objective 1 of the implementation plan is that the number of cargo ships flying the Estonian flag is at least 50 by 2030 and the intermediate indicator in 2020 is 35 vessels, quite funny. With regard to the implementation of the implementation plan, which had a number of very important deadlines on 30 June, we have a number of questions for the Minister. Most of them concern operations that are likely to have been carried out by now. We will soon find out how successful this has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U55	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U56	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 to 2020' is a valid development plan, for which the Government of the Republic approved on 12 December 2013 an implementation plan for the years 2014 to 2016 with specific activities and performance indicators. As maritime policy is a cross-cutting development plan, the implementation of the implementation plan activities includes coordinated work by several agencies and resource planning. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has started its work processes and implementation of the implementation plan is ongoing. Since 28 March s. a was led by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications together with a working group to analyse the possibilities of improving the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector, including the changes and restructuring of the Estonian ship register. The members of the working group were a number of members , including representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and also the Maritime Support Group of the Riigikogu. That was an introduction. Now I will answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. The first question: 'The implementation plan provides for the development and implementation of a system of support for shipping companies with a deadline of 30 June 2014. Has the system already been developed and implemented since 30 June, or is there another problem with filling this point? If so, which ones? ' The analysis of strengthening the competitiveness of the Estonian shipping sector really had to be completed by the end of June, but due to the size of the topics covered and the high level of involvement, which led to a large number of opinions, the mandate of the working group was extended until 15 September. a. Today, the working group has done its job, and part of it has been developed, in cooperation with the Development Fund, a maritime model that allows, by changing inputs, including tax and payment rates, to simulate changes in the revenue and expenditure of the State in different tax scenarios. As the last merchant ship left the Estonian ship register this spring with a gross tonnage of 500 tonnes or more, our main proposal is to restore this shipping segment first and foremost. As the Estonian state currently receives 0 euros in revenue in this respect of shipping, the state only has to win here. Due to the fact that the joint work of the parties was completed only a week ago, it has not yet been implemented. As the working group has proposed very fundamental tax policy changes, their implementation depends to a large extent on the political will to change the situation of Estonian shipping, as well as on the co-operation capacity of the various authorities, in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs in developing solutions. The second question: 'The implementation plan provides for an analysis and implementation of the need to establish the so-called second vessel register, if necessary, as well as the deadline of 30 June 2014. What is the state of the analysis and when can a decision to establish another register be expected? ' An analysis of the need for the restructuring of Estonian ship registers was also completed on 15 September or a week ago. The main changes to the organisation of the Estonian ship registers are the transformation and consolidation of registers maintained by different authorities in the Maritime Administration, where the administrative competence of Estonian shipping is highest. At the same time, we are increasingly thinking about keeping records of ships in order to be quick and smooth in service, perhaps in the interests of the client. We already have three ship registers: the ship register, the ship register chartered without crew and the ship register to be built. These three should all be maintained and continue to be within the Maritime Administration. A new register would be a register of commercial vessels of more than 500 gross tonnage. These vessels are engaged in international freight transport on the basis of the location of the ship owner, i.e. whether the ship owner is located in Estonia or outside Estonia. It makes sense to restructure the ship registers once a political agreement has been reached to change the tax environment of the Estonian shipping sector and the regulation of labour mobility. In isolation from these issues, the restructuring of ship registers has no significant impact on the shipping sector. The third question: 'The implementation plan provides for a review of the principles of the use of migrant labour on merchant ships, as well as the deadline of 30 June 2014. Are there any middle points, or have there already been views on the principles? ' The rules on the use of migrant labour are indeed one of the issues to be discussed in the case of the use of two registers of ships. In general, the use of third-country labour should be facilitated on board ships flying the flag of Estonia. This is often necessary because, when a ship is in a distant port, it is also necessary to ensure that a crew is completed there. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, a solution must be found so that shipowners can hire workers who are scarce in Estonia or who urgently need to be hired when the ship is in a foreign port. At the same time, the possibility that local labour can be found in the sector must certainly be maintained. The recommendation of the working group is to lay down the requirements for entering into employment on a ship flying the flag of Estonia by a third-country national. Since there are two legal acts related to this issue in Estonian law, it is necessary to amend the Maritime Labour Act or the Aliens Act. At present, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs is of the opinion that the situation cannot be resolved by amending the law in their field, but should be resolved outside these laws. Since the issue of migrant labour on merchant ships must certainly be resolved, the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself calls on both ministries to renegotiate to change the current situation. This is certainly not a good solution if one ministry considers that the problem does not fall within its competence, and the other considers that it does not fall within its competence. However, during the negotiations, we will try to find a solution that is satisfactory to all parties. Question 4: 'Do you, as the responsible minister in the field, even believe that it will be possible to fill an intermediate indicator of at least 35 cargo ships under the flag of more than 500 GT Estonia in 2020? What are you and the current government willing to do to make this happen? ' Yes, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the targets for 2020, including 35 cargo ships with a gross tonnage of more than 500 tonnes, are realistic and feasible. This is also confirmed by the calculations made using the developed maritime model. We know that at present the Estonian capital is owned by a cargo ship under a foreign flag of 70 to 80. With the support of a favourable tax environment, it would be possible to bring some of them home, i.e. under the Estonian flag, but why not all of them. In order for positive changes to take place in the shipping sector, issues related to the restructuring of ship registers, tax changes, social guarantees for seafarers and movement of labour need to be considered as a package, as individual changes to the Estonian shipping business environment have not been expected to have an attractive effect on the shipping sector at global and regional level. Moreover, if a political consensus is found to make changes to the business environment of the shipping sector, the earlier objective set in the Maritime Development Plan is to have 35 ships of more than 500 tonnes gross tonnage by 2020 under the Estonian flag, even modest, and the number of ships in the Estonian ship register could be several times higher. The positive impact of the shipping sector on the Estonian economy is significant. So the short answer is: yes, I believe it when there is political agreement and will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm opening negotiations. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U58	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, All these maritime concerns were discussed last Friday at the big international maritime conference, which was already the tenth in line, so the jubilee conference. Some reports noted with sadness that on 16 April the last cargo ship left the Estonian flag. There are three main reasons for this. First of all, the use of migrant labour is extremely difficult under Estonian law. Indeed, if the key person of the crew falls ill in a foreign port and can be replaced by a ship from that port, according to our laws, this is almost impossible. Secondly, the extreme bureaucracy and complexity of our ship registers were highlighted, as nobody would want to deal with registration in this register. Thirdly, one of the most important reasons is that Estonia's ships have, precisely because of the laws and taxes, high manning costs, even 60% higher than in neighbouring countries. While the cost of manning is about 50% of the costs incurred by ships, it is clear that the competitiveness compared to the ships in the neighbouring countries is non-existent. I asked the minister if the government granted this working group an extension. I had the impression, although the Minister did not say this directly, that the Minister authorised that this working group could work until 15 September instead of 30 June. Of course, the result is important, and I've been familiar with it. But unfortunately, the expression 'when a political agreement is reached' remained in all the answers. I have a very big concern that all these beautiful things can only be left on paper. It is not enough to simplify only the procedures for registering, here the issues of hiring foreign workers and also the costs of manning, i.e. the tax system, come into play. All of this must be resolved in its entirety. The conference also stated that if we create more or less the conditions that are in our neighbouring countries, then perhaps Estonian shipowners will return their ships to the Estonian register as a result of patriotism. But it is only when we create conditions that are slightly better than in the nearest countries that we can expect more ships to come into our register. Therefore, it is still necessary to change the tax conditions, the registration procedures and also the recruitment procedures for migrant workers quite radically. We know that shipowners make their decisions fairly conservatively. They must be convinced that if any law has been amended or anything has been introduced, it will remain in force. Therefore, the fact that part of the tax was refunded to merchant ships did not convince anyone very much because it was decided each year by the budget, which was not directly guaranteed by law. There is therefore serious doubt as to whether at least 35 ships will be flying the flag of Estonia by 2020. Before that, all these laws and tax incentives must have been amended. After a long time, the Reeders will certainly monitor how this system will work, and only then maybe they will move their ships to the Estonian register. Therefore, knowing the complexity and time-consuming nature of this process, I do not dare to share the Minister's optimism that in 2020 there will be at least 35 cargo ships in the Estonian register. If the current pace continues, it is likely not. The pace should pick up several times. We do not see this so far, let us look at the working group whose working time has been extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U59	Thank you. There was no such concrete proposal from the working group that could directly contribute to the shipping sector. I know that the Finnish State has contributed to shipbuilding in such a way that it has issued guarantee letters that enable the shipbuilder to invest more favourably. In particular, there were no such proposals. We do not have such a large sector of construction of large ships as in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U60	There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U61	Questions for the Minister. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U62	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you very much for your presentation, Minister. I, too, have been reviewing the work to strengthen the competitiveness of the shipping sector. It is justified in a very clear and varied manner by the figures that the competitive nature of the Estonian business sector, Estonia's competitiveness as a flag country for ships and the fair and dignified treatment of 6000 Estonian sailors as taxpayers require tax exemptions. Since there are no ships under the Estonian flag anymore, the tax exemption does not take any cents away from the state budget, but tens of millions of euros can be added to the state budget. Could this document disprove the doctrine of the uniformity of taxes in force so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U63	Thank you. I don't know if he's so powerful that he can disprove it in all areas. Of course, it would be nice, because I personally believe that life is not easy and the tax system does not have to be easy, i.e. the aim does not have to be that the tax system is simple. The aim must be for entrepreneurship to develop, for jobs and for people to get a good salary. I think this analysis is really very well done. I think that giving more time paid off because the result of the work shows it. In fact, there is a table showing how many additional resources would be available to the State if these exemptions were granted. I have raised the issue of developing entrepreneurship in rural areas and the need to make tax exemptions there, for example in the case of electricity excise duties or connection fees. Personally, I believe that if it is reasonable to grant a tax exemption, because it serves the objective of creating more jobs and generating additional revenue for the state, it must be considered. In the interests of the truth, it must also be said that it is not quite the case that there are no cargo ships and, therefore, if we introduce these exceptions, there will be no cost at all, there will only be revenue. I believe that the state should pay for the difference resulting from this exception itself, because a person must have social protection. If the ship is flying the Estonian flag, the sailor must receive all the benefits provided for in Estonian law, including that if he becomes unemployed, he must receive compensation from the unemployment fund, and he must be able to use all other social protection, starting with his children. The state should pay off the missing money, but it can simply be shown that if the state does, it will already come back directly from the register revenue, not to mention the indirect revenues generated by this sector giving work to others.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U64	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, the answers were short and clear, but in almost every answer, the expression "if there is political will." That's what 'if it is' we've been waiting for here for years. However, the implementation plan was carried out for a year and four months, i.e. the subject was thoroughly examined, and certainly the deadlines were also considered. I heard one such statement that it was decided to postpone the deadline from 30 June to 15 September. It is known that the operational programme was approved by the Government on 12 December 2013. Is there a government behind the word 'decided'? Did the government postpone the debate on these three points for two and a half months, or did who decide? It's a government certified document.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U66	Thank you. This request came to me from the working group in June, precisely because they were not yet prepared to provide a thorough analysis. They even asked for a longer deadline, but we agreed that they would be granted an extension until 15 September. I thought, and I still think, that it is important that this work is done properly, analytically and seriously. Rather, give some time when we know that then the work is really reliable and well thought out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U67	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I am pleased to note that at least you have a vision of how to improve the situation. But if we go back a little bit in time, how have we come into such a situation that the last considerable cargo ship has left under the Estonian flag? I don't want to provoke you to point a finger at someone, but you might want to point it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U69	Thank you. It is always difficult to evaluate what others do and do. Yes, the fact is that no large cargo ship is now under the Estonian flag. After all, ship owners warned for a long time that if nothing was done, this would happen. Perhaps these warnings were not taken very seriously. I really don't know what the reason was, but we're seeing results now. I think these warnings should have been taken seriously. It's always harder to get back from what we were before than to avoid a bad situation. The same is true when we talk about the Estonian people leaving and we want to invite talent back home. It's harder to bring them back, easier to do whatever it takes to keep people from leaving. The same is true of merchant ships. It would have been easier to take action earlier, perhaps it would have gone cheaper than being recalled now that everyone has left. It is clear that this action is now more questionable, much more difficult and perhaps more costly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U70	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Why don't you explain the reasons why it's better than we are? Explain it in such a way that it is perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U72	Thank you. I will give examples from other countries. However, these are basically tax exemptions which are used in other countries in the maritime sector, but are not used in Estonia. It can be said that they are used throughout Europe; Estonia is the only country where they are not used. In terms of humor, Estonia is, as if, an exception itself, because we are the only one who does not use the exceptions. Let me give you some examples. Before I say that it is not correct to claim that nothing has been used in Estonia. Through the EAS, such a measure has been used to provide shipowners with a refund of 70-80% of the social tax paid. But it did not produce results, and that is precisely because it is only one tax and it cannot be seen as a long-term measure. You can't be sure of that because one year will be returned, the other year maybe will not be returned. As I said earlier, in any case, these exceptions and measures should be seen in a set. Taking out one can only mean cost, but there's no return. For example, there is a so-called net wage system in Finland, under which the employer is exempt from the taxes of seafarers, including social tax; in Latvia, seafarers are taxed 2.5 times the minimum wage; in Lithuania, a 0% tax rate applies to seafarers. In each country, these measures differ, but they can be illustrated for each country. True, many of our cargo ships are registered in Panama or in other exotic places where taxes are almost no such. That brings us to another problem. Our people who work on these ships are likely to be largely uninsured at all, without both health insurance and social security. It should be taken into account that in the future we will have to pay these people a national pension, even though they have not contributed to the Estonian tax system. These questions are complicated. As a Social Democrat, I can say that it is not acceptable for people to lack social security. We are talking about an estimated 6,000 people who may not be socially insured. Either way, we should find a solution here. That's one side of the problem. But the other is a pure financial side. The group proposed that income tax could be 0%, social tax 10% and unemployment insurance rate 0%. We would argue that if 42 ships came under the Estonian flag, for example, then the state budget would receive a direct income of 14.5 million euros from the registration fees, with an indirect income of more than 200 million euros from services provided in the shore sector. Clearly, there are no free lunches. I did a quick sweep. If these sailors work under the Estonian flag, there are about 500 sailors on 42 ships, because on average there are 13 people on board, then someone should pay taxes for them. We cannot make such an exception that we do not pay at all. The missing part of social tax should be paid if they themselves pay only 10%, income tax and unemployment insurance, because these people may become unemployed and then need social protection. All of this will cost around EUR 8 million and the direct income would be EUR 14 million. So even if the country covered this gap, as the Finnish state does, then ultimately the revenue of the state should be higher than the cost, plus the fact that people are socially insured. I think there are places to think seriously. I hope that, with next year's elections coming up, there will also be one topic that could be discussed. I watched the Forum on 17 September, where Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi performed. He said this: 'The tax system in itself should ensure the collection of money that is as economic and growth-friendly as possible to the budget. It is not a gift, if tax rates are kept low, it is a question of the tax system's growth-friendly nature. ' It's also part of the fact that we don't give these people anything, the state pays for that part, but ultimately the state earns more from the fact that these ships are on our register.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U73	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U74	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Madam Secretary! You guys seemed to be making a lot of sense, but I think there's a complete mystery involved. In Estonia, corporate income tax is 0%, but for some reason businesses around the world are not rushing to register their businesses here. At the same time, ships flying the flag of the Bahamas or the Crocodiles are large, world-renowned and renowned shipping companies. I don't think they're gonna trample under any of the rights of their employees, because they really are fully respected companies. If Estonia has so far failed to bring ships from other countries under its flag, do you not feel that Estonia would hold on to its virginity, even though no one wants to marry him? How long will this thing last, and can we expect something to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U75	Thank you. I don't think we should expect very many ships from other countries to come here. But if some of the ships that are potentially under the flag of Estonia, which could and have been under the flag of Estonia, would now come under our flag, then it would already be pretty good. I find it difficult to say whether the group's claim that 6 000 people are without social protection is correct, but I find it difficult to question this figure. I have a presumption that the task force has done its job well. However, a very small proportion of seafarers are currently socially protected. If a cargo ship is registered, for example, in Finland or in another neighbouring country where the country pays the difference properly, then people will be socially protected and subsequently receive a pension from the country whose flag the ship is currently flying. But unfortunately, yes, most ships are registered somewhere in remote islands where taxes are allegedly not paid at all. So it is also a concern that people, our own citizens, are without social protection. This is also a major part of this concern, not only that the state will not benefit. I think we should make an effort in any case, but I agree that it is not at all easy to get back those ships that have already gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U76	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister! It was nice and good to hear that story you said about tax exemptions. I can assure you that this is also the Central Party's understanding of the matter. But we all know very well how your coalition partner feels about this. Looks like it's gonna be a good and nice story, at least for a while, until March. But my question is a little different. In addition to tax incentives, was there a discussion that the state would come to the aid of entrepreneurs as an investor if these ships were to buy so that the state would contribute to the development of the Estonian fleet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U78	Members of the Riigikogu Urbo Vaarmann, Lauri Laas, Tarmo Tamm, Priit Toobal, Viktor Vassiljev, Valeri Korb, Ester Tuiksoo, Peeter Võsa, Kalev Kallo, Marika Tuus-Laul, Vladimir Velman and Aivar Riisalu have submitted the following question. This inquiry has also been submitted to Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak at the Urbo Paarmanni.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U79	Minister, thank you very much. We submitted an inquiry into bus traffic on 11 June. At the beginning of May, the Saare County Government announced that from s. a From 1 September there will be a new regime in Saaremaa, now it should apply to people living in a smaller place, so that they can call dispatchers in advance in order to get them on the bus. Under the new rules, the bus route will consist of a main section and an order line, i.e. a claim section. In short, tickets must be ordered in advance via dispatch. We want to know what this situation is and whether there is any change to be expected here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U80	Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U81	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk about the command lines. Before I start answering questions, I will briefly explain what this line of demand is. This is, however, a relatively new matter and often remains unclear in its precise content. In the case of a demand line, the bus route consists of two parts: the main part of the line and the part of the requirement. In the main section of the line, the bus travels to each stop according to the schedule, and it is possible to get on and get off each stop. The bus will only travel to the part of the line requirement if a ticket has been bought or the dispatcher has been given prior notice of the wish to board the bus in the part of the line requirement. The part of the requirement shall initially be used for existing lines on those sections where the main part of the line is to be driven back and forth. Now, let's get to the questioning. The first question: 'What is the Ministry's position on such activities? Do you not think that such a change will further deteriorate the transport opportunities of people living in smaller settlements? "The Public Transport Act provides that public transport must be designed and organised in such a way as to ensure that the provision of public transport services is in line with demand, taking into account the social and economic viability of the use of resources. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications supports all reasonable solutions in accordance with the law, which are provided by competent authorities and which, when using limited public resources, are specifically designed to meet actual driving demands. We consider that the above-mentioned principles of the Public Transport Act are in line with both the demand lines implemented by rural governments and, for example, the social transport organised by municipalities to meet the specific needs of local residents. Due to changes in people's mobility needs, routes are inevitably created, the maintenance of which would not be feasible in the interests of rational use of public budget resources. I would stress that it is in the interests of rational use. The state will certainly not reduce public spending, i.e. the amount of subsidies, next year. Otherwise, the competent authority responsible for public transport will not be able to provide transport services on lines with a higher demand. Therefore, service on the basis of demand for very low number of routes or sections of lines means that the public transport connection will remain available to the inhabitants of smaller settlements as well. As far as we know, the Saare County Government has made part of the routes available on demand, because of the lack of passengers. For example, there was a section of a line in the county where there were only 11 passengers on a trip 20 times a month. It may have been that all the 11 passengers were on the same bus, of course they might have been scattered. But the fact is, the bus drove 20 times, but it received 11 passengers during that time. It is obvious that if the bus is completely empty in half the days, it is not a rational use of public resources. On the contrary, it directly undermines the possibility of providing transport connections and the quality of transport to other residents. It is not possible to provide additional bus transport in areas where there is a real need for it every day because of the means needed to keep the routes running by empty-wheeled buses. The second question: "In addition to the Saare County Government, does any rural government plan to divide such a bus route into a major part and a claim part? " A similar solution is currently used in Hiiumaa, Põlva County, Jõgeva County and Pärnu County. The creation of line sections operating on a demand basis in other counties is also considered in the preparation of new public procurement. This is particularly the case in areas where demand data show that only a part of the days the line is running have had passengers, while the rest of the days the bus has either run empty on the whole line or on a part of the line. The third question: 'How is it possible to draw up timetables for such a system if it is not known for certain whether or not the bus must carry out an additional requirement? How does a person know what time he must be at his stop to get on the bus? 'The line graphs are drawn up on the basis of which part of the line the call line is located. If the part served on demand is at the beginning or at the end of the line, this does not affect the departure from other stops. The departure times from the stops served on demand are fixed in the timetable with the additional note that at these stops the passenger can only exit on demand and enter if he/she has given notice of his/her wish to drive in advance. Where a bus may, if there is a driving demand, deviate from the main part of the line, the departure times indicated in the timetable are calculated that the bus does not serve the part of the requirement, but the timetable is accompanied by a note that the bus may be delayed for a few minutes at the stops on the main line if the stop is served. This ensures that the bus does not leave before the time of departure indicated in the timetable. At the same time, the bus may be somewhat late at the next stop when it comes to the stop, but additional information is available in the published timetables and passengers can take this into account when planning their tasks. The fact is, if the bus is a few minutes late, because it's a detour, it's not as bad for a person as it would be if the bus left early. In any case, the person gets on the bus at the right time. Question 4: How does the implementation of such a system affect the tourism sector? Where does the tourist get the information that he has to call the dispatcher in advance to get the bus from a stop in the claim section? 'The service on demand shall be considered very carefully for each line and shall be applied only on lines or parts of lines where the number of inhabitants and the demand for driving have been very low. Areas where there are a lot of tourists, it doesn't matter. Therefore, there is no reason to assume that the number of tourists travelling to these areas by public transport would be so significant as to be able to talk about the impact on the tourism sector. Larger tourist groups usually use occasional passenger buses ordered by occasional service. On the other hand, the creation of demand lines will not have a negative impact on the individual tourists who really travel to low population settlements with public transport. It is logical that a tourist travelling by public transport in the scattered area will be familiar with the schedules of the bus routes in advance. All necessary information, together with instructions on how to order a bus to a claim stop, is grouped into a travel planner managed by the Road Administration www.stop.ee. Information is also required on the Saare County Government website. Thus, when acting according to instructions, a tourist can travel by bus without problems. Question 5: 'It is planned to use the order line system only on those sections where return and return travel takes place, but empty stops also occur on buses running directly. When will thinning of the country take place so far that lines like this will be cut out? ' If there is a demand for running the whole line, but there is a modest demand at certain intermediate stops, cutting out the intermediate stop is not economically justified or, frankly, practically feasible. After all, the bus passes all the stops on the line anyway, so there is no reason to fear thinening the country in this direction. However, it is reasonable to apply the principle that a passenger must signal to enter or leave a bus at certain intermediate stops with low demand. This will avoid unwarranted bus stops, save both driving time and money, and reduce the negative environmental impact of continuous braking and accelerations. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U82	Questions for the Minister. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U83	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that there are routes with so few passengers that national subsidies are unreasonable, and you gave an example of one line where there were 11 passengers during 20 trips. I believe this is one of the most drastic examples. What's your assessment of how many people have to use the stop so that this stop doesn't become a stop for a claim, but it stays as a permanent stop for a letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U84	Thank you. It's up to the county government. They have that information, and they will make that decision. This decision is not made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Saare County Government has also made this decision. In order not to misunderstand, I would like to say that the state has not reduced its subsidies to the county routes. Dotations have been in.. I've had the table taken out in more or less one order of magnitude since 2009. It is true that they have even increased, and next year they will be reduced by just over EUR 1 million, but this is due to the fact that the state has bought an additional 100 buses in the meantime and the depreciation costs for new buses are lower. It's just that the dose has been reduced a little. But it's not related to the service as such. So it is not so much the idea that the state can save but the county governments themselves decide to channel more resources on other routes that is behind the emergence of claims. If there has been a situation where the bus drove 20 times and received 11 riders after that time, it really seems to be a small number. So this country doesn't decide, it stays at county level. I also asked you to find out how it's been going elsewhere. For the first time, claim lines were introduced three or four years ago in Põlva County, then in Hiiumaa, Jõgeva County and Pärnu County. Feedback is very positive, even so it has been said, and this solution has been used actively. Let us hope that this is the case, that it is rather positive. Otherwise, if, for example, someone wants to drive six times, if that even happens, there is a risk that this line will be closed at all, there won't be a stop for the dishes, and that's much worse. In this case, the person has no choice but to contact the municipality and ask the municipality for transport to the nearest bus stop, often using a social worker's electric car. A person can then also use his own resources. But now there's still this possibility, figuratively speaking, that if there is a Puraviku farm somewhere in a scattered area where a living person uses public transport once or monthly or twice in a quarter, he'll have the chance to call the dispatcher and tell him that he wants to get on the bus that day, and he'll be guaranteed that opportunity according to the timetable. I see it rather positive: these stops will not be abolished; however, they will remain as serviceable stops on a senior basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U85	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U86	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Looking at the extinction of rural areas and at the actions of the state to prevent this, the question arises whether you have not discussed whether public transport in counties could be free at all, especially in places where there is little movement. The dose is quite high and has been increased in recent years, and the proportion paid by people is relatively small. I imagine that free public transport could give rural areas a pretty good boost, people would come back and feel a little safer in the country, because the country has put it on its shoulders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U87	Thank you. The municipality decides on the ticket price for public transport. We know the municipalities that have implemented free public transport. But when we're talking about county lines, bus ticket prices aren't significantly high. So it would hardly have a significant impact on the use of the service. It would hardly be the case if public transport were free of charge, there would be an enormous number of users. But we haven't discussed how to get free rides on county lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U88	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U89	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I've been driving public transports in Paris, London, Madrid. Interestingly, there are people in public transportation with a generally happy face who read a book that listens to music, and when you smile at some people, he smiles back. Somehow, when driving a bus, an Estonian person has such a face on his head as if a bus were going to a concentration camp. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Why do our people not like public transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U90	You want to direct me to other paths, philosophies. We can sometimes philosophize at the café of the Riigikogu about why the faces of Estonian people are sad, but I think it is not related to public transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U91	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U92	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The costs of bus and coach travel shall be covered by ticket revenue and subsidies. Can you tell me how much of the total amount is currently the ticket revenue, how many percent of the total amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U93	Thank you. I don't know. I know how much it's worth. For example, a subsidy of EUR 22.33 million was paid in 2013, but next year it will be a million less, thanks to 100 new buses. But I know that this ratio in train traffic is that 75% is paid by the state and 25% by the person himself, which is a very small proportion compared to other countries. In bus traffic, this percentage may remain in the same order of magnitude, but I honestly admit that I do not know exactly. If you want, I can specify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U94	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U95	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm asking about free transportation, too. It is extremely popular in Tallinn and it is a huge financial aid for people. I've also been to the counties and asked what people would think if they could travel free of charge on the county lines. That's what the Centre Party is going to do when we get to power. But what makes you think that people don't have much use for it, as you just said here? I think it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U96	Thank you. My answer was rather that I do not think that, as a result, significantly more people would be driving public transport. There's a dislocation on Earth. If there is one Pureviku farm somewhere and another farm after 10 kilometres, it is unlikely that only free public transport will result in more farms. There's a whole other reason. We need to create well-paid jobs for the country, and then there are families who want to live there. In fact, it is not difficult to buy a bus ticket that the country is currently subsidising so heavily. It was more my idea. Of course, every penny will help, I don't doubt that. Every cent that can be saved is helpful, but free public transport has no such effect. But yes, every municipality has been able to decide for itself. Tallinn has made such a decision. When the Social Democrats were in power in Viimsi, they took the decision that public transport in Viimsi was free of charge for school children and kindergarten children this autumn. It's well received. Yes, free public transport in Estonia is spreading quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U97	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. I don't think the Minister wants to say anything anymore. Turns out I was right. This inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U98	Now comes the question of questioning by Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev, Mailis Reps, Eldar Efendiev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Enn Esemaa, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobal, Esther Tuiksoo and Aivar Riisalu. On behalf of the heirs, Marika Tuus-Laul will perform. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This question, which we handed over at the beginning of June on behalf of the Centre Party Group, concerns thousands of people, all those living in a general care home. We also based our inquiry on the audit of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office made an overview of a large number of nursing homes and came to the conclusion that there are many questions. The cost of living in a nursing home, access to health care there, the size of a person's own participation etc. poses problems. The main question is that when determining the amount, the percentage that a person has to pay from his or her pension, there are municipalities where some people pay 100% of the pension, some 95%, some 80%. There might be a single rule here that you should pay one sum or at least a certain percentage. The second question relates to the fact that if a person pays 100% or 95%, it is essentially not left with the money. The National Audit Office also found that the minimum allowance should have a person, it is so basic. The National Audit Office called it money, which goes to cover the needs that the care service does not cover. If a person does not have the money, for example, he or she cannot use the phone or communicate with relatives. Of course, there is also the third issue of health issues. Most nursing homes still have sick people, but neither the doctor nor the nurse are there. These are acute questions because people are always in need of medical care, but it is generally poorly available. We also find that if the municipality sends a person to a nursing home, he should be given a "health situation" where it should be shown which medicines he is taking. This is not foreseen at the moment. But I think it would be elementary, you'd also know the nursing staff who do a very big job, how to help a person. We believe that much more should be done to help those living in a nursing home. I think it's time for this to be more than mature, we should have done it a long time ago. Please, Madam Minister, answer these questions. Please also respond to how you assess the availability of healthcare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U100	The Social Protection Minister Helmen Kütt will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate the authors of this inquiry, but also the National Audit Office, who did it in 2012. in a report presented to the Riigikogu on 16 April 2014! Before going to questions and answers, I remind those who have not read the audit report that the National Audit Office assessed the organisation of general care services for the elderly in 15 municipalities and ten municipal nursing homes. The way in which applications for general care services were processed in 2012 was examined. The need for assistance and the way in which the service was charged were assessed. The housing conditions and the organisation of the nursing home were also assessed. For information, there were 227 local authorities at the time, 193 of them answered questions, 102 nursing homes and 74 of them sent answers. So the audit was very thorough, but the focus was precisely on direct control of ten municipalities and work in their nursing homes. To be clear, there are 238000 elderly people in total and almost a fifth of them could need care. This is a service provided by the municipality, because we are not talking about special care, but about general care homes. The cost of this service has increased from year to year as a result of the fact that there has been an increase in the cost of this service. Now to the questions. If you allow me, because the first two questions concern one subject, i.e. the participation of the elderly person in the care home he pays, and the municipality's refusal to pay for the care home service, I will answer them together. The first question: 'How justified do you think the situation is when a pensioner pays 100 percent of his pension to a nursing home and should he not, in any case, be left with a monthly amount of money that he can spend at his own discretion? How big should it be? " The second question: " How wealthy must the elderly and/or his family be so that the municipality may refuse to pay for the nursing home? ' According to § 45 (1) of the Social Welfare Act, a person may be charged for the social services provided to him or his family. The fee to be taken depends on the volume, cost and financial situation of the person receiving the service and of his family. The person's remuneration for a social service is decided by the service provider or by the institution responsible for the service. At the moment, when a decision is taken by a local authority, it is necessary to assess the financial situation of the person who needs the service and of those who are responsible for its maintenance in order to determine their fiscal capacity. A social worker has the opportunity to assess the property situation of close relatives and to involve people with legal competence in the decision-making process. Local authorities can also rely on special welfare regulations: the state has fixed an indicative percentage that should be kept by the person each month, i.e. 15% of his or her income. This percentage is based on the understanding that a person can, if necessary, cover expenses that are not included in the nursing home service. This may mean buying food at a store or buying medicines if they are not prescription medicines. That 15% would give you an extra chance. For municipalities, this percentage is indicative, not mandatory. According to known practice, the income of the person in need of the service shall be used to cover 100% of the cost of the place of service where the person is unable or unable, due to his or her state of health, to use the percentage assigned to him or is determined by the guardian that he or she cannot use it. Once again, since it is the organisation of local government services and local authorities, being closest to people, regulate the provision of general care home services, this competence has been delegated to them. However, we do not rule out the need for further analysis and new regulations and recommendations, because the work of the local government and the provision of general care services, but also when looking at the state's financial policy, it is clear that it is still necessary to protect the well-being and well-being of these people in a nursing home in such a way that they can decide on their small allowance. Question 3: "What assessment do you make of a situation where the health and needs of elderly people in nursing homes are not mapped, and what should be done to improve the situation? " Since the next question deals with access to medical care, I will read it out and answer these two questions together. Question 4: "What do you assess the availability of family doctors and medical services in nursing homes? ' All persons in need of general care and receiving general care are included in the list of family doctors. As the institution is not a health care institution, a referral letter from the family doctor containing the studies, prescribed treatment and diagnosis is not necessarily necessary to obtain the service. However, in view of the fact that older people, who are often prescribed medicinal products, form the customer base of the institution, the Health Services Organisation Act has introduced an amendment according to which the institution can obtain an authorisation to provide home care services. In the past, only a special care institution was authorised to provide health care, and now the institution has the right to provide health care. An inquiry was made in June, and in the meantime it was a long summer when I was in contact with many local governments and heads of nursing homes. I can say from this, and from my experience, that most municipalities have regulated the procedure in such a way that when they go to a nursing home, they want a family doctor's certificate on infectious diseases and a pharmaceutical scheme, as well as certain materials and papers from a specialist doctor, because it ensures a better livelihood for an elderly person and better care for his or her health in the nursing home as well. I questioned 25 nursing homes at random, and it was recommended in 23 of them. After all, evidence of suffering from infectious diseases also ensures that other people who are already living in a nursing home are not infected. Health care professionals who work in general care homes authorised to provide health care have access to the health information system. Health professionals providing home care services in general care homes also have access to the health information system. If the nursing home or home care provider does not have its own information system, health care professionals can use the health information system via the medical portal. This big report, which is almost a hundred pages, contains on page 34 the good decision that we have made in this Chamber. It deals with the possibility of providing nursing care independently: 'A limitation of the form of activity, i.e. the service can be provided by a company, a foundation or a self-employed person, applies as a general rule. From summer 2013, the limitation on the form of activity is an exception for institutions providing 24-hour care in the case of home care services. A list of possible operations in the framework of home nursing services is established by a separate decree of the Minister of Social Affairs. ' So, basically, it's possible. As regards the fact that nursing homes are of very different quality across Estonia, the services they provide and their prices vary strongly, the quality assessment procedure was also referred to in this analysis. This topic coincides with the questions asked, which would appreciate the quality that nursing homes offer. Several nursing homes have taken advantage of this opportunity to have their work valued. They have either developed a mechanism for this purpose, which has been confirmed by the Council and through which feedback has been received. In this way, the residents of the nursing home, the people living there, as well as the workers, will be able to give feedback, which has so far been lacking in many places. I very much agree with the sharpness of the questions that have been asked. The recommended requirements and criteria are available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but they are certainly not mandatory for municipalities. This leads to certain problems here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U102	Thank you very much. We're going to the questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U103	Thank you. Madam Minister! In fact, the National Audit Office has made very specific proposals. One of them is that the Social Welfare Act should determine either the amount or the percentage that would remain a pocket money after paying the place tax. It's basic money. The other half concerns medical care. We know there are old sick people in nursing homes. Shouldn't the state come up with something? Each nursing home may not be able to hire a doctor, but one day a week could still provide such a service, because these people find it very difficult to get to a doctor. The family doctor wouldn't be happy to go there, let alone the ambulance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U104	Thank you for your question. Indeed, 15% is recommended. It is difficult for municipalities to require this percentage to be the case because the general care service is not financed by the State and the local authorities bear this cost from their budget. As far as medical care is concerned, every person living in a nursing home has a family doctor. I know that a number of nursing homes are monitoring whether the bounty received by a family doctor for a person living in a nursing home is being used in a meaningful way as to whether a person receives this service. That Friday I went to the Helme and Hellenurme nursing home. It selects the family doctor from the same place where the service is provided to ensure faster treatment and availability of the service, after negotiating with the people who have settled there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U105	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U106	Thank you, too, to the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U107	I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U108	Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that this issue is very important and acute. We try to imagine when a person leaves his home, is forced to go to a nursing home because he can't take care of himself or for other reasons. He'll have to get used to it, the mood will fall, and so on. Then it turns out he doesn't have any pocket money, either, not even a little bit. If the municipality can withdraw 100% of the pension, it can also take 80%, but it is basically 95% of the pension, and the person is left with less than 10 euros, it is not money. All kinds of basic things are needed for everyday life. Sometimes a person wants to buy a cup of coffee or candy. He wants to talk on the phone, which is basic, but nobody pays him off and he doesn't have the money. Even if there are no family or family, it's a terrible situation. A lot of people have been calling and talking about this problem. I've been to nursing homes, and I've been to nursing homes. A man needs some cream, a comb, a shampoo or anything, but he doesn't have any money for that. He's the poor, really the most real looser. I'm not talking about buying a book or a magazine sometimes. Or if we needed glasses! It's out of the question if you're already in a nursing home. The situation is pretty tough. The headache pill has often been said to be unable to buy it, to have no money for it. This situation needs to be changed. It does not need to be said that it is up to the authorities to decide. It's up to the state. The proposal of the National Audit Office is that the Social Welfare Act should determine the percentage or amount that would remain in the hands of the person. In fact, it depends on our will, and it is not impossible to do so. It's only right now that the municipality decides. We can help here. It's different in special care. Secondly, I shall speak once again in terms of health. It's not like healthy people go to a nursing home, it's still old and sick. They often go there after the end of active treatment if they have had a stroke or a heart attack. A lot of people out there are bedridden, we know that. But it's still pretty brutal when there's no more doctor to advise. After all, we know what the situation is like with family sisters and sisters: they do not have enough for large centers. So maintenance personnel have to take care of themselves, figure something out with their heads. I know the situations where an ambulance hasn't come to a nursing home, I didn't want to come. We're an independent country. How can we view our elderly ones in such a way that we do not think about it? We still have to ensure some kind of well-being. It's nice of the Minister to say it's right to discuss these problems. As the National Audit Office also made a number of proposals, I think we need to take action now. The National Audit Office carried out this audit two years ago, it was made public in the spring, but it would be a long time ago. I call on the Minister to do this, we come to help and make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U109	Thank you very much. Viktor Vassilyev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U110	Madam President! It was not for nothing, dear friends, that I asked Minister Urve Palo about the previous item why people have such gloomy faces on the bus. He gave me the right answer that I expected and expected. Yeah, they're gloomy because they don't have a place to go. Life is hard. They're going to work where the pay is low. They're going home, where there's a problem: the power bill's waiting, the debts are on the line. This is our life. After all, a person comes to this stage of life where he really can't handle his own affairs anymore. Kids would like to help, but they don't have a chance. How do you help older parents if your salary is 500 euros, your husband is a drunk, your children need to pay school money, but you can't put any clubs on them because there's no money? Old man is going to a nursing home. I've been going to nursing homes for 35 years because my job has been involved. No one has much joy there, people are just as sad and gloomy. Nana sits and waits for the kids to come over, but they don't come, they have their problems and problems. And I guess the money's what it is, because the nursing home service has to be paid off and that's why a person's pension is taken away. A German pensioner proudly pays off his nursing home, has money for cigarettes and cognac, and sometimes throws some tips at the sisters. He lives proud of what's wrong with him. He's planned his life and spent his whole life collecting that money, he's got all kinds of pension funds, stock portfolios, and real estate. If he has the period of his life that he simply no longer wants to pay for the apartment or cook himself, he will look for a suitable pansion suitable for his wealth, and he will pay proudly and live, by the way, joyfully. I've been abroad in nursing homes at different levels. Municipal care homes are like the worst, but there's also a closet in the hallway with beer bottles in a row. It's on the town or the parish. The resident of the nursing home goes into the hallway in his slippers, takes a beer, drinks it, takes another, and no one else takes it, because that beer doesn't end there. Yes, you see, the Reform Party, which has been leading our government for many years, has done a very good job, has written in the reform plans that we will continue. A great goal is to get into the five richest countries. It's really great, really good. But we have to think that those who are young, rich, successful today will be able to reach a bright future, but those who are 80 years old, 70 or 60 years old will not be taken, and they will also have no place to live in today's society. That's something to think about. You have to pay for your grandmother's trouble, you still have to compensate for the costs of those people who are unable to pay for them now. We have been through difficult times: wars, revolutions, monetary reforms. It was not possible for these people to raise such treasures that they could secure their lives as the Reform Party describes in its programming documents. That wasn't possible. I should still pick up those who tend to fall behind. The state could think that these people worked their lives, built up everything that was sold in the wake and privatisation process. We owe them a debt of gratitude, and it could also be expressed in monetary figures, in the case of people living in nursing homes, because they deserve to be treated humanely. They're people, they're our parents, our mothers, our grandmothers, our fathers, our grandfathers. They must be thanked now that they are alive, not when they are dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U111	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. But the minister would like to make a rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U112	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I still want to say that you're colleagues. It's so nice to be here with you. I do not believe that the interviewers certainly thought as it may have been, that municipalities do not care about their people, but I do think it is important to clarify that most local authorities care about their elderly, even when children are unable to pay. Local governments pay for these people and, in most cases, the elderly also have pocket money. Possibilities have also been created for leisure activities. True, there is no bar closet spoken of by Viktor Vassilyev, but the municipalities will certainly do their best. I am very grateful, as I said earlier, to the questioners as well as to the observations made by the National Audit Office. We will certainly discuss this with the local governments of cities and municipalities. To say that it should be set as a mandatory percentage of 15% for all, it would be an intervention in the organisation of the municipality's work. What should be discussed is how to ensure better medical care. Examples of failure by an ambulance to come to a nursing home could be very specific in order to deal with this situation. But once again, on behalf of the municipalities, I dare say that most of the municipalities care about, love and care for their elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U113	Thank you very much. The round of negotiations is now over, and this issue has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U114	Now, ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer hit, you will be able to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U115	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, 'Once upon a budget hole, the victim of the Estonian railway transport'so could title my presentation. We have been witnessing for the last seven years that power parties, led by the Reform Party, preach in every possible and impossible case, how good our tax system is supposed to be and how it helps to revive the economy. This is done regardless of the partner who has been taken as the chorus singer. At the same time, we have witnessed for the same seven years that there is no tax system that actually works and even less supports the economy in any way. We have repeatedly been in a situation where the expenditure side of the budget is more or less combined, but then it turns out that there will be no cover money. No problem! Under the enthusiasm of the Minister for Finance, as many draft indirect tax increases or surcharges will be prepared quickly, without any analysis of the consequences, if necessary to cover the holes. With the compliments of the coalition partners, the stamp will be placed under the ground, and that is what has been done. We can safely call our tax system a tax system for patching budget holes. While this was done once a year with the annual budget being made, it was now done in the first half of the year with a new and more greedy partner. It was raised in this hall. a at the extraordinary meeting on 1 July, an innumerable number of excise duties, such as excise duty on fuel oil used to obtain warmrooms. The use of specially marked diesel for rail transport was discontinued. On this last occasion, I will dwell on it. If, until the end of this year, special-marked fuel is used in rail transport with an excise duty rate of EUR 110,95 per 1000 litres or EUR 129 per tonne, it will be EUR 392,92 per 1000 litres or EUR 457 per tonne as from 1 January 2015. The hug is a little bigger than four times. You could say it went well, because navigation fees were raised six times. Our two biggest carriers are EVR Cargo and E.R.S. AS is forced to transfer this appreciation to customers' accounts. According to EVR Cargo, there is a 15% reduction in capacity due to the price increase. The reduced capacity will also have an impact on other operators in the chain, resulting in an even greater negative impact on the State. To keep the infrastructure at its current level, Estonian Railway should invest 30 million euros each year. The volume of transport has now decreased to 17 million tonnes, resulting in an investment capacity of only EUR 5 to 6 million per year. If the volume of transport on Estonian Railways falls to 15 million tonnes per year, the investment capacity will be zero. This means that from 2015 to 2016 onwards. The speed of passenger trains cannot be maintained at 120 kilometres per hour since 2005. Goodbye to the opportunity to get by train in two hours to Tartu! Bus companies have little to wait for: passengers will soon return because it will take a very long time to travel by train. The Commission asked a representative of the Ministry of Finance why the impact of the sharp increase in fuel prices was not analysed. The answer was that there was little time and the impact assessment remained relatively superficial. It's always like this: there's a budget hole, we're about to do a bill, we're gonna raise the tax, but what's gonna happen, we don't know. The PricewaterhouseCoopers study shows that this move was expected to generate EUR 9 million in additional revenue to the state budget, but as a result of the reduction in capacity, the state's revenue will decrease by EUR 80 to 90 million. Moreover, as a result of the decrease in capacity, the expected revenues are barely seven million instead of nine million. That's pretty much the business: I make $7 million to lose $90 million. Since such 'business projects' have been in power for so much for the last seven years, economic growth has been halted and an ever-increasing decline can be expected soon. Younger people will not wait for this great fall, but will wipe the dust off the feet of Estonia. Those who do not have the opportunity to leave must prepare themselves to tighten their belts and to suffer even a cold room. But in the elections, let's still vote for the Reform Party, so we can touch the limits of our survival capabilities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U116	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U117	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that four days ago, we discussed a draft decision in this Chamber, which the beginners had the wish to entrust the Government of the Republic with the task of transferring the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. Quite often, more specific address was mentioned, i.e. Narva. Personally, I support this transfer because if such an institution is to be located on the island of Kreenholm, for example, it will give a huge boost to the development of the city. Such a project would be very, very important in regional policy. Now let's get down to business. This morning I sent two letters to every member of the Riigikogu. One letter was accompanied by a file containing Narva Gate's proposal from 2011. The second letter contained a proposal from the same company to the government from 2013. What's it about? By quoting the starting point and speaking about the study building, shooting range, sports hall, curate dormitory and staff dormitory, Narva Gate states that the proposed starting amount is guaranteed and that the project can be easily expanded if necessary. The internal defence academy would form a complete campus in its own right, where all key functions could be performed, where there are areas suitable for more specific activities in the vicinity, where the school's main building would be in a representative historical building built in 1899, as would be the case for an institution such as the National Defence Academy. Students' and faculty's apartments (dwelling homes) and sports facilities would be in new buildings and would be as functional as possible. These files also contain some images that give you a good idea of how it could all look. Four days ago, last Thursday, it remained here at the beginning that building such a complex could cost EUR 40 million, then talking about 60 million and then EUR 80 million, plus VAT. Narva Gate reports that if the state plans to build the academy for its own money, the price of the land is 9 million plus VAT, i.e. less than 11 million euros and the cost of construction plus VAT is 34700000 euros. The total cost, including the furniture, is about EUR 45 million. But it is also possible to make sure that the company, which makes the offer, builds the complex itself and rents it. It's also been reported how much rent is. Together with VAT, it is 13.2 euros per square metre per month. Today, the Finance Committee had representatives from the Ministry of Finance. I asked the question about the rent paid to the RKAS in Tallinn for some ministry buildings located in the centre of the city. I received a reply that the rent per square metre was about 50 euros plus VAT, or 60 euros in total. If there is going to be a much more expensive option than what is in the offer that I have sent you, I hope we will be able to recall it and wonder why the country will choose the more expensive options over and over instead of saving people's money. But I'll end up hoping the National Defence Academy will still come to Narva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-09-22_U118	Thank you. There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. Thank you very much to all the participants. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 5.29 p.m.
