ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. No drafts or requests for information are recommended. In that case, we'll do a presence check. Seventy-five members of the Riigikogu have been registered as present and there is no 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U2	We're going to the agenda today. First of all, the draft law amending the Law on Identity Documents and State Fees Act 699 is the third reading initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna hold you for long. It is undiagnosed that the idea that was put forward six years ago will finally come true. On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to say that this is a very good draft and we fully support it. We will certainly also see critics in the near future who say, in one way or another, that this system is stranded here and stranded there, that we are still offering e-residence to people who have no connection with Estonia. To all these critics I want to answer ahead of this Riigikogu speech chair: this is quite a unique thing in the world and I am very happy to vote in favour of the amendment, which is an epoch creative, with the potential to receive international attention and take Estonia forward with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U4	Thank you very much. Urmas Reinsalu wishes to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U5	Thank you. It's a very good bill. The IRL Group also calls for a vote in favour of this. Let's get on with Estonia together!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U6	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 699. We are preparing for the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on identity documents and the Law on state fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 699. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law, with an extraordinary consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U7	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U8	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have the honour to report to you today the draft law amending the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic 698. The aim of the draft is firstly to establish a clear and comprehensible regulation for the part-time work of a judge. On the other hand, the aim is to improve the functioning of the panel by harmonising the workload of its composition and amending the duration of its mandate. In addition, there are amendments to the draft text relating to the departure from the judicial office of their own motion, the establishment of the Rules of Procedure of the Court and the payment of the additional fees. In particular, the changes are due to the fact that the judge does not currently have the possibility to work part-time. According to the Courts Act, only the President of the Court can reduce his or her workload in the administration of justice, to the extent necessary for the performance of his or her duties. The creation of the possibility of part-time work for judges will contribute to reducing the high workload of judges, to speeding up the resolution of cases and to shortening procedural times, which will ultimately lead to greater satisfaction for the parties to the proceedings. The proposed amendment creates the possibility for judges to work part-time. However, this is not granted without limit, but only if the judge is entitled to parental leave, i.e. until the child reaches three years of age, and if the judge has been identified as having a partial capacity to work and is unable to work full-time because of his or her medical condition. In the above cases, the application of the judge must be granted and can thus automatically be granted the right to reduce the workload. However, if a judge wishes to work part-time for any other reason, such as continuing his or her studies in doctoral studies, the need to care for a parent or long-term self-service abroad, this is not the basis for automatic reduction of the judge's workload. In such a case, the Judge may request a reduction in the workload for a maximum period of one year and the President of the Court shall decide on the application, hearing the opinion of the General Assembly of the Court. Special attention should be paid to the fact that part-time work is also subject to a proportional reduction in the remuneration of the judge. Secondly, the draft proposes to increase the composition of the panel and to authorise the chairman of the panel to appoint a specific composition from among its members for each meeting or thematically. The draft also states that the term of office of the panel will be reduced to three years instead of the current five years. The judge's examination committee is one of the most burdened judicial authorities. According to the statistics for recent years, the Commission will hold a meeting in the course of the year of 9 to 14 years. During the intersessional period, the members of the committee shall evaluate the written work of the judicial examination as well as the written work of candidates for a candidate. Members of the Commission carry out the Commission's duties alongside their main work, which may make it difficult to carry out the main duties of a judge in a timely and high-quality manner. The amendments proposed in the draft act are intended to reduce the burden on the members of the Commission by shortening the Commission's mandate and increasing the composition of the Commission, thus giving the possibility to set up different formations from the members of the Commission. As a result of the changes, the burden on the members of the judicial examination committee decreases and thus increases the motivation of the judges to participate in the work of the judicial authorities. Changes in the remuneration of the judge in the performance of the duties of President of the Court are also envisaged. Under the current regulation, 15% of his salary shall be paid to the President of the Court of First and Second Instance for the performance of the duties of President of the Court if the number of judges in court is up to 14 and 25% of his salary if the number of judges in court is at least 15. Thus, the amount of the premium payable to the President of the Court for the performance of his duties is the same, regardless of whether there are 15 judges or, for example, 66 judges in court. The President of the Court is responsible for the proper conduct of justice in court. The proper conduct of justice is one of the main tasks of the State, which, according to the Courts Act, is the responsibility of the President of the Court. The current premium rate does not currently take into account the responsibilities of the President of the Court and the work to ensure proper justice; these matters need to be brought into line. The premium paid to the President of the Court with a higher number of judges and officials is intended to compensate for the high daily workload. The amendment gives the judge the opportunity to pay an additional fee of 35% of his salary for the performance of the duties of President of the Court if the number of judges in court is at least 30 and 45% of his salary if the number of judges in court is at least 45. As a result, there would be a practical increase in the premium for the President of the two courts, which would be brought into line with the number of judges in court and with the responsibility of the President of the Court under the direction of the court. The draft law imposes an additional obligation on the judge to notify his resignation at his own request for a period of at least six months. The amendment is necessary to ensure that the court order is smooth. Currently, there is no time limit for leaving the judicial office. Finally, it is necessary to highlight the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Court. In the future, the Rules of Procedure do not require the agreement of the Court's Administrative Advisory Board. On the basis of the right of the judicial authorities to organise themselves and in view of the fact that the Supreme Court also acts as a constitutional review court, it is unreasonable to require the court rules to be approved by an out-of-court body, the court administration council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U9	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts Act 698 was discussed at the Commission on 6 October. a. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Anvelt, was present and Maret Saanküll, adviser to the Legal and Development Service of the Ministry of Justice. Mr Anvelt presented the content and objectives of the draft, which there is no need to talk about here, he has just explained this. The speaker agreed that the introduction of part-time working would be extremely rational and reasonable and would respond to real needs and asked how the judges have done so far. Maret Saanküll explained that at present a judge who is raising a child under three years of age only has a choice as to whether to work full-time or not, and such a three-year solution cannot be considered reasonable in any way. We also discussed that we must also make a separate amendment to the special law on judges, which, unfortunately, has not been such a regulation so far and should be included in it. It was further said that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Pikamäe, addressed the Constitutional Committee, who made two proposals. First of all, that the draft provides for the chairmen of the Supreme Court colleges to be in office for a limited period of time. Strangely enough, the current regulation does not provide for such a term of office, and in reality it has become that some of the chairmen of the Supreme Court have been in office since the beginnings. The offer would be a reasonable solution and would allow rotation within the Supreme Court. This practice is also common in other higher courts. The Commission agreed. The second suggestion made by the President of the Supreme Court was that it would be reasonable and appropriate to provide for the payment of representation fees to the Chairman of the Supreme Court. There is no such regulation at the moment. Representation fees exist for the representatives of the executive and also for the representatives of the legislative authorities, but there is no possibility for a representative of the judiciary to receive them. This would be a sensible proposal on the balance of powers and equality. Adding this provision would not lead to additional expenses within the Supreme Court could be taken into account; there would simply be a normative basis for doing so. Then followed a general discussion about whether we should regulate all such details in the law or whether we could leave some things to the judicial system to determine its own internal acts. However, this debate was not directly concerned with the draft. By consensus, we proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 21 October, that the first reading be closed once again by consensus, and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. the usual deadline of 4 November 2014. The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the speaker, was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U11	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Rait Maruse! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 698. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 4 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U12	Our third item today is the first reading of draft law 712 on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It is necessary to amend the competition law and related laws in order to bring the existing competition law into line with the new European Union State aid legislation and to ensure effective monitoring of the de minimis ceiling. The technical amendments to the draft are as follows: The agricultural and fish-economic de minimis data shall be aggregated into the State aid and de minimis register. So far, such aid was registered in the register of agricultural payments and agricultural masses. The amendment is necessary to ensure better traceability of company-specific ceilings. For example, where an undertaking operates in several sectors, in addition to the sectoral ceilings of EUR 15000 in agriculture and EUR 30000 in fisheries, the total amount granted to one beneficiary shall not exceed EUR 200000. The calculation shall be based on three financial years. The references used in the Competition Act are aligned with the amended EU legislation. The references of the two new de minimis regulations replace the existing references. The two titles of the Council of the European Union State Aid Regulations will be amended. Third, the Competition Act rounds the turnover rates of the concentration on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The current unrounded turnover rates are the result of conversions to the euro. The amendment is necessary to facilitate the implementation of the turnover criteria. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U14	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on 22 September and 6 October. The first time we discussed it in substance, the second time we took procedural decisions. A few words on the substance of the draft, and I apologise if I repeat the minister, but at least for the sake of history you can write down. As stated, the main objective of the draft is to introduce agricultural and fishery de minimis aid data into the State aid and de minimis register. So far, such aid was registered in the register of agricultural payments and agricultural masses. The interconnection of registers is necessary to ensure that monitoring of the company-specific ceilings laid down in the new Commission Regulations is better feasible. Where an undertaking operates in more than one sector, the amount of aid granted to one beneficiary, as already mentioned, in addition to the sectoral ceilings, shall not exceed EUR 200000. The calculation shall be carried out on a three-year basis. In addition, there are many technical changes here, including the references used in competition law that have been brought into line with European Union legislation. The Competition Act also rounds the turnover rates of the concentration necessary to facilitate their implementation. The current turnover rates were quite square as a result of the changeover, and now they are going to be rounded, full millions again. A little bit about the implementation of the bill. This does not require additional state budget resources. The relevant development was carried out at the Ministry of Finance in 2014 on the amounts earmarked for the development of the register. As far as the target group of the changes is concerned, this target group is small: 26 donors are affected, as are the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, which are authorised processors of these registers. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 4 November 2014 and that the first reading be closed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U16	Thank you very much. Imre Sooääre has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U17	Thank you, good manager. The Minister spoke here mainly about de minimis agricultural and fisheries production. For example, if one holding has a very large number of arable land, would the single area payments also go into this category or are they still separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U18	The draft provides that, where the sectoral ceilings are EUR 15000 for agriculture and EUR 30000 for fisheries, the total aid granted to a single beneficiary for a number of activities shall not exceed EUR 200000 for three marketing years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-21_U19	The answer has been received. No further questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 712. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 4 November at 5 p.m. Our agenda today is exhausted. Thank you to all present and performers. It's been a pleasure. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10:24 a.m.
