ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 October Tarmo Leinatamm, a member of the Riigikogu, left us after a serious illness. Tarmo Leinatamm was a member of the X and XII Riigikogu. He has been the conductor of the Estonian National Opera and the director of Tallinn Philharmonic. Let's remember Tarmo with the silence of grief! [[The silence of grief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, are there any drafts or inquiries to be made? There are no drafts or referrals. We're doing a presence check. Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 16 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, there is a presentation on the implementation of legal policy developments until 2018 by Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. The presentation and discussion shall take place as follows: First of all, the Minister of Justice, Andres Anvelt, will report for up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions, each member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, during which representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. Let's get to this item. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, please present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I'm sorry if I'm having a cough attack, but the autumn humidity has gotten me. The developments in legal policy, which were approved by the previous Riigikogu, are undoubtedly a milestone in Estonian legal policy. Although the direct impact of the document in everyday life may not be as striking as some of the codes that have thoroughly reformed our legal order, it is not much less than their long-term impact. Moreover, one of the cornerstones of legal policy developments, or good lawmaking principles, will help us to ensure that every new piece of legislation is thoroughly considered and does not need to be changed in the near future. This means, however, that by implementing these developments, we will improve the quality of the entire legal order from its roots. Fortunately, we are not alone in this by promoting legislation, but also in consultation with the European Union and the OECD, who are paying ever more attention to knowledge-based and inclusive legislation. For example, Jean-Claude Juncker, the new President of the European Commission, appointed his first Vice-President to be responsible for better regulation and he has confirmed that this area will receive much attention during his reign. Better Regulation is also the main objectives of the OECD in the coming years. In my presentation, I will first give you an overview of international affairs and then explain how we are going through good lawmaking in our daily lives. Last year we had very active international cooperation on better regulation and, above all, on the analysis of the impact of legislation. We made a strong contribution to the cooperation forums between the European Union and the OECD for better regulation, where we received a lot of good knowledge, but we also organised two seminars ourselves, where we shared our experiences with others. We received useful ideas from visits to Finland and Croatia. In December, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Chancellery organised a seminar on the impact assessment of European Union legislation. Together with the representative of the European Commission, we discussed how the Commission could better take into account the differences in the impact on the Member States. We have stated that in order to make the various effects on Estonia more heard, it is important to inform the Commission of them as soon as possible before the proposal is submitted to the Council of the European Union for discussion. A recent international legal impact analysis seminar with Praxis was held. Our foreign colleagues and I discussed Estonia's successes, as well as the bottlenecks, and we were familiar with the innovations that have been developed in this area in recent years. The seminar gave several good ideas for developing the Estonian legal impact system and made the legal impact analysis network much closer both in Estonia and abroad. This is essential in terms of the integrity of the system of legal effects and consistent practice. As has been said, we share our experiences with others. In 2013, we presented the implementation of our system to the Ukrainian, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatian delegations, with cooperation with Croatia increasing since 2011. This year, Estonian officials went to see how it has been possible to introduce a system of legal impact analysis inspired by Estonia. We have noticed that there are many similar concerns, such as a lack of analytical capacity and the tendency for legislation to be characterised by excessive haste. We also visited colleagues in Finland. Finland is a real example of the fact that legal effects as a whole can only be assessed well once an impact analysis-supporting mindset has developed. Finland does not have as detailed a set of rules in this area as we do, but the thoroughness and quality of preliminary analysis is a good step ahead of our own. A great deal of help is provided by an independent judicial research institute within the administration of the Ministry of Justice, which prepares impact assessments of the proposed policy options and monitors whether the choices already made have been implemented in a targeted manner. In summary, international cooperation has helped us to understand where we are compared with other countries and what solutions are worth using. In any case, there is no doubt that we have one of the most advanced rules of impact assessment. However, there is much room for improvement in the meaningful and purposeful implementation of this set of rules. In the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union in June this year, I highlighted the importance of focusing on the effective implementation of the numerous legislations adopted over the last decade. All legislative activities must be based on clearly identified needs and considered. It must be clear how the solutions so far have been implemented and how they work. I will go on with how we apply the principles of good lawmaking in our day-to-day business. First of all, I'll round up the first half of this year. This year, we are following new rules for all government drafts, which must ensure legislation that is inclusive of the knowledge society. The procedure is that before a draft law initiated by the government is drawn up, the intention to draft a draft must be drawn up, i.e. an initial analysis of the impact of the new legislation. If it appears that the draft could have a major impact, a more in-depth impact assessment will be envisaged. The intention to develop serves a number of central objectives of good regulation. First of all, the draft preparer must formulate a problem and set objectives. This is the starting point for determining whether it is necessary to amend the law or even to introduce a new law or whether another instrument is appropriate to solve the problem. In this way, unnecessary regulation and overregulation can be avoided. Since the overall impact will be analysed even before the draft is drawn up, the major impacts can be fixed and analysed in greater detail. It is also very important that, in this way, both ministries and other institutions and stakeholders can start to think along in good time. This will take account of the effects of different areas and involve society in the wider legislative process. And, of course, we can thus avoid situations where fundamental issues would be discussed once the draft and the explanatory memorandum are ready. A bad example of this is the regulation of the law on alcohol consumption, which has created conflicts in society. The draft had already been prepared by the government in 2006 and was discussed in the Riigikogu for four years until it was passed as a law in 2011. However, the substantive debate on conflicting issues was not raised until a year later, when the law was already being implemented. It follows from the above that the public was not involved in the process of creating the law and that the opinion of local authorities was not heard. All of this could have been avoided and legislation shaped according to societal trends, if inclusion, substantive hearing of the parties and arguments had not been avoided. In 2013, 14 draft laws were drawn up, and 13 this year in the first seven months. At the same time, it is sad that only one fifth of the drafts prepared in these seven months were drawn up. On the other hand, it is clear that it is not reasonable or possible to draw up a design plan for each draft. For example, if there is no discretion on the part of a Member State when adopting a European Union directive, there is no point in coordinating the options, but there have been too many exceptions and there is room for improvement. We have to admit that legislation has sometimes been broken, and it has a direct impact on our daily lives. The aim of the intention to develop is to map the major changes and bring about both positive and negative outcomes. In the event of minor changes, as well as the elimination of the legislative cull, we should consider whether the intention to develop is still the best solution. In particular, in the case of solutions affecting the legal order, the intention to develop will help to clarify whether the proposed changes have been implemented exactly as planned or whether shortcomings have arisen. It is commendable, however, that the quality of the plans to be developed, in particular the formulation of the problem and objective and the identification of impacts, have clearly improved over the last few years. In order to avoid errors, the Ministry of Justice is increasingly being called upon at the time of drafting the intention to develop. This is a sign that legislative officials understand the feasibility of a longer legislative process, but, on the other hand, it shows that ministries still need guidance. As a result, training and information days will continue to be organised and a network of contacts of ministries will be properly put in place to keep each other informed about innovations and problems. As a result, not everyone needs to learn from their mistakes all over again. At the same time, it should be noted that the impact assessment has not reduced the volume of legislation. On 1 September 2013, 398 laws were in force, with 324 of them being amended a whole year or so, many times. Such indicators are the changes made to other laws by the Act amending the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities and the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement, and the revision of the Penal Code, but these figures do give rise to thought. It is therefore necessary to consider more whether amending the law is always the best instrument. The impact analysis can explain whether it might be worth changing implementation practice, informing the public or using other measures. Any amendment of the law will increase the workload of ministries, government and parliament and cause ambiguity to those implementing it. In addition, all these amendments must be incorporated into the law and published in the Official Journal of the State. More needs to be done to analyse the significant impacts. Only in nearly half of the cases where significant impacts have been identified, a more in-depth analysis is followed. The biggest concern is that there is not enough time or flexibility to take into account the proposals resulting from the impact assessment. As usually the drafts are urgent, the impact analysis and the draft are often drawn up at the same time. Therefore, cooperation between these two parties must be very close. And even if not all of the proposed drafts are evidence-based, which means that the impact analysis is too late, further errors have been avoided thanks to the impact analysis. Before rushing to write the draft, it is necessary to examine whether the same subject has been dealt with in countries comparable to Estonia and, if so, how the matter has been resolved there and whether any solution would be suitable for Estonia. A good example is the so-called APR bill, which was drawn up as a direct example from Finland and Latvia, but the experiences of Sweden and Norway were also examined. In this way, we can avoid pointless provisions. However, of course, the solutions cannot be taken over by quite one. For example, the bill for collecting maintenance is intended to limit the right of non-residency workers to drive, as has been done in some states of the United States. We may not be able to take over one solution to one, but we still need to look for similar examples and wonder if they could be applied to us in a certain form. Given the diversity of legal systems, we must therefore reconcile the legal system of our country in search of these ideas. Unfortunately, so far, no ex-post impact assessment has been carried out to find out whether the objectives of the draft have been achieved. It is the ex-post evaluation that could be seen as one of the next steps in the development of justice policy. The Ministry of Justice took an initiative comparable to the first ex post evaluation when inviting all parties to submit proposals on problematic provisions of the Law Enforcement Act. A study commissioned by the Institute for Health Development also provided a basis for this step, which showed that 82% of the population are not in favour of allowing alcohol in public places. If one law has generated such a great social response, it is up to the legislators to take it, review it and start looking for solutions. To date, the legislative amendment resulting from the proposals has gone through a coordination circle where public authorities and stakeholders were able to make their views publicly available. In the near future, we will submit amendments to the Government of the Republic. Since the new system for assessing the impact of legislation has been in place for some time, we have examined the advantages and disadvantages that legislative practitioners see in it. On the basis of the answers, we are now making adjustments and improving the code of good regulation, the methodology for assessing impacts, the verification questionnaire on the form of intention to develop and the definition of impacts. Now for inclusion. Impact assessment and inclusion are closely linked. If we involve those directly affected by the legislation that we are creating, we will bring new views to the legislative debate and we will also find alternatives that can only be brought forward by people who are personally involved in the area. Openness to the government is an important principle, and we follow the directions agreed in it with representatives of the civil society. The Open Governance Partnership Action Plan also focuses on the openness of policy-making. NGOs and citizens are increasingly in a position to participate in the decision-making process and to get information, but there is still room for improvement. The Open Government Partnership is coordinated by the State Chancellery, which also advocates the systematic introduction of good practice on inclusion. Involvement is increasingly a self-evident part of the daily work of ministries, both in the preparation of strategic orientations, in the analysis process and in the launch of new initiatives. For example, in drawing up a current and new development plan to reduce violence, we have worked closely with NGOs dealing with victims and perpetrators of violence. As far as this development plan is concerned, I would also like to point out that the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence Against Women is still being signed this year, with which the State undertakes to ensure the necessary legislative changes. We have worked with NGOs, for example, on crime prevention and support persons released from prison, and on young people with behavioural problems. One good example of inclusion in the Ministry of Justice is the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act adopted in February. The draft was prepared for a few years, as the large target group of the law and many different interests required solutions to the problems of a wide range of stakeholders. Close cooperation was carried out with the Association of Housing Associations, the case was also discussed with bailiffs and insolvency practitioners, representatives of banks and representatives of apartment owners and housing associations. There are still such examples, and there will undoubtedly be more and more, so that they will not need to be highlighted as special achievements in the future. I will continue on the issue of access to and translation of legal information. In the last few or three years, all important legal information has been pooled into the State's Official Journal, where it can be easily found. This benefits both those implementing the law and those interested in it and improves general legal awareness. All court information, i.e. public judgments, and brief summaries of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Supreme Court are now available in the State's Official Journal. For each law adopted, the legal news will be published. From 2013 all regulations of local government will be published in the Official Journal of the State. By now, all the existing regulations of the vast majority of municipalities are in a state of up-to-date shape. In order to facilitate the availability of these regulations, a sectoral classification was introduced on 1 July this year. In addition, a search has been made for all pending drafts in the State's Official Journal. This means that a number of procedural information systems no longer need to be examined, but all drafts, explanatory notes and supporting documents can be found in one place. As of the beginning of 2014, you can also order a notification of the completion of each of the procedural stages of your drafts to your e-mail address. Since the end of 2013, more than 300 modern English translations of the law are available in the State's Official Journal. They are of great interest to some 100,000 users from around 160 countries. This will help to introduce Estonia's legal order to our partners in international organisations, investors and the world at large. By the end of the year, all laws have been translated into English. At the same time, we must make sure that our legal order is also more understandable for the Russian-speaking people. For this reason, 52 of the most widely used laws will be made available free of charge in Russian at the end of the year. At the same time, law translations do not help to promote the legal awareness of Russian-speaking people, but the possibility of obtaining legal advice in Russian. It is therefore planned to provide legal advice in Russian on the Jurist portal and to translate into Russian the advice that has been published there so far. The state and society are much more effective in investing in the development of the law-abiding and law-abiding population than in later combating the consequences of ignorance. Fragmentation of society, differences in legal information fields and incomprehensibility, in turn, creates confusion and ignorance and increases distrust. As a result, members of society with poor legal awareness may pose a risk to the state and the well-being of the people. Each euro's preventive action means 10 euros of savings in terms of eliminating the consequences. In addition, the Association of Lawyers in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice has organised free legal aid days in Tallinn, Narva, Võru, Pärnu, Viljandi, Jõgeval and Sillamäe under the name of the Legal Pharmacy last year and this year. More than 1000 people were consulted in Estonian and Russian. Recently, I visited the courthouse in Narva, and there I was given examples that people had approached them with actions that had been prepared by someone under the Civil Code of the Russian NFSV or the Estonian SSR. I believe that it is the responsibility of the state to put people on the right path. In cooperation with the Bar Association, we plan to introduce a more regional approach to the wider spread of legal aid, and we will continue to involve young lawyers in regional centres through scholarships. Next year, we will launch a pilot project in Narva to develop a regional approach to legal aid in the future. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will now stop at the activities financed by the Structural Funds: codification projects, study visits and legal analyses. Codification has been completed or is under way in the following areas of law: environmental law, social law, construction and planning law, economic governance law, misdemeanour law, penal law and intellectual property law. These are large-scale legislative projects aimed at clarifying, simplifying and modernising the area's right. The legal regulation will be cut to pieces in order to put it together in a more thoughtful and appropriate way. At the same time, the regulation that is to be considered as a piece of legislation is not simply better put together, but a new law is also being created. Simple relocation cannot be limited to a number of reasons. Firstly, after the restoration of independence, a number of important legislation had to be created very quickly, so that integrity was inevitably affected. Later on, legislation has not always been harmonised. And, of course, the transposition of European Union law has played its part. As a significant proportion of the changes are substantive, stakeholders have also shown a strong interest in codification. So it can be said that codification projects have also been very useful lessons in terms of inclusion. Codification is initially continued in six areas: company law, insolvency law, criminal law, civil law, educational law and maritime law. This list may be supplemented. More than ever, we are paying attention to close cooperation between experts, stakeholders and ministries as early as possible. There will also be a preparatory phase for codification, which will involve a public debate, and which will require the Ministry of Industry to decide whether to do a great deal of work at all or to try to solve problems in the ordinary legislative procedure. Because of the scale and depth of codification, this is a very important undertaking alongside our daily legislative work. This has also been a significant challenge for the top experts in the field. In addition to everything else, the quality of legislation depends on the competence of the preparer. Quality has steadily improved, but certain recurring shortcomings confirm the need to train law-makers. However, the training of individual legal practitioners is rarely carried out and also within the institution, with no training system covering the different institutions. The specialist knowledge is enhanced in the training of judges organised by the Supreme Court and in the training of lawyers' associations, which are primarily aimed at law enforcement lawyers. However, they do not meet the needs of legislative lawyers, and the Ministry of Justice therefore plans to fill this gap and launch a series of five-year training courses. In addition, the Structural Funds can also fund study visits by legislative lawyers to other countries. These experiences will increase the competences of the legislators and thus improve the quality of our legislation as a whole. The third major factor in improving quality, alongside codification and training, is legal analyses that are prepared or commissioned by all ministries. We are talking about an analysis prior to drafting or amending the legislation. They are needed for decisions to be taken on the basis of well-considered arguments, as well as the experience of other countries. In that case, we will not change the law too quickly and too often and we will be able to be sure of the solutions proposed. The bad news is that ministries do and order analyses individually on the basis of their own problems, and often the results of the analysis do not reach others, although the problems and topics are often similar. Therefore, with the support of the Structural Funds, the analyses will be carried out in a coordinated manner. Such shared knowledge brings benefits for a long time. On this subject, let us also mention that ministries also have very good experience of cooperation in legislation. In order to ensure that government legislation is based on uniform principles, the heads of the judicial departments of the ministries, as well as the officials of the Riigikogu, the President and the Chancellor of Justice regularly discuss the topical issues of lawmaking. The round table also discusses the legislative work plan to be drawn up under the direction of the Ministry of Justice. This plan will be published on the website of the Ministry of Justice, so that all interested parties can monitor when a bill is being processed. Finally, a brief word of legal. When drafting laws and designing law at all, it is up to the language people to stand alongside lawyers, because the best thoughts are useless if they are not clearly worded. A clear legal language is one of the prerequisites for the transparency and involvement of power. That is why we are demanding that ministries organise the linguistic editing of draft laws, taking into account the instructions of the Ministry of Justice. We will also continue to organise a legal language day and issue a magazine in the Legal language. It is worth noting that at the end of the year, this magazine will become 20 years old. A good and precise legal language is something that the Ministry of Justice will continue to closely monitor to ensure. Honourable Riigikogu! In summary, I stress that the importance of the principles of good lawmaking cannot be overestimated. By examining the effects and involving those involved, we will make the legislation understandable and justified. This will make public governance more effective without burdening businesses and citizens. Analysis and involvement of impacts requires quite a lot of resources, but this does not mean excessive costs or waste, but investment. Officials are slowing down in the heat of legislation and are wondering what they are doing and why and what the consequences will be in society and thus in people's lives. After all, the ultimate goal of good regulation is that all decisions should be knowledge-based and based on clear estimates, rather than merely a gut feeling in the office. To this end, time and resources must be invested, this is the cost of legal clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U4	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! After all, the law on law enforcement and the law on its amendment and implementation aim at a paradigm change in society. Both laws were discussed at length both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. You were also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs when the draft implementing law was repeatedly asked whether and if so, how the ministries are, in particular, I am thinking of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, ready to explain this paradigm shift to the local authorities. I'm sure you remember the claims that the ministries are willing to explain this, but as life has shown, there has been a shortage of explaining. This is particularly the case with this alcohol paraphrase. Today, there is a desire to start turning certain things back. Do you think this is right, and how do you appreciate the ministry's work in providing explanations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U6	When we talk about explanations from the Ministry of the Interior to law enforcement authorities, for example, and also local authorities, given how many trainings and other explaining work have been done, it is not clear why this information about alcohol consumption often did not arrive. Having now been in contact with stakeholders, relevant organisations, including the police, during the drafting of the new draft, I dare say that the police may have been ready for this. For the police, this certainly led to a reduction in the number of certain procedures, which was positive in the same way. But the public had not received much explanation. I dare even say, with a certain irony, that many took this legislative amendment as an obligation to start drinking in public. I'm sure it wasn't planned that way. Therefore, after consulting local governments, the Institute for Health Development and other organisations, I considered it necessary to start amending this law so that each local authority could decide for itself where alcohol consumption is allowed on its territory. Of course, certain restrictions should apply, for example, to young people and children, as well as to sports-related areas. However, in any case, the implementation of the law on 1 July this year showed that the content of this amendment, which was already decided in 2011, was neither clear nor acceptable in society at large. This disturbed a very large number of citizens, I would like to emphasise once again, precisely because some irresponsible people took this permission as an invitation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U7	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have a question about judicial policy, namely the detection of tax fraud and the recovery of damages in criminal proceedings. I remember from my practice that it was possible to bring a civil action in criminal proceedings against tax fraud. This opportunity was used. The situation has changed now, and the current regime, as I understand it, does not foresee it. How this is in practice, we have seen very well in the so-called Belokrylov case, where 7 million, plus a conditional penalty, were received in the case of 30 million proven tax fraud. Is that what we have today in the legal policy of detecting tax fraud in the field of the recovery of damages, or is there a plan to reform the legal regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U9	Let's start from the beginning. The legal environment has been constantly improved in order to better detect tax fraud and, once again, also in order to recover money lost as a result of tax fraud. Let's take the same subject you mentioned. Let's get started on the fact that 7 million was one of the parties to the arrangement procedure. The state had several options: either to choose a general procedure and to remain in a situation where nothing could be reached, or to get the 7 million. In addition, the Tax and Customs Board always has the possibility to use administrative procedures for the remaining taxes not received. Whether he does or doesn't, it's up to the IRS. In addition, a number of provisions concerning confiscation have been introduced in recent years, including from third parties. Still for the purpose of getting as much of the lost tax money as possible from the state. And it is not only the damage suffered by the state, but also often the victims of private individuals. In general, I'm not very pessimistic. The question is always what steps and wisdom are used by tax fraudsters. It often happens that they are a few steps ahead. For example, we know of a case at Viljandi Health Insurance Fund that you have probably read about in the paper. The person thought that he would create a situation where he could not comply with the agreement after the conviction, since the agreement had to be fulfilled not on the account of his own real estate, but on the account of the companies he owned. This gave rise to an analysis of the procedure in order to prevent such situations and to widen the possibilities of confiscation. It now extends to third parties. So there are many opportunities, and I hope that the sums that the country is missing will decrease from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U10	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am concerned about the volume of our legislation by making inconsistent changes to one law and another. Somewhere in the middle of the report, you also came up with the question of whether it is better than amending the law to analyse the implementation practice and, if necessary, to change it. My question is about what the Ministry has done or is about to do specifically in this area. My understanding, though, is increasingly moving towards making a list of unnecessary, disruptive and bureaucratic regulations, so that they can be phased out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U12	Absolutely the right direction in itself. Good legislative practice also provides for a post-implementation analysis, and its post-implementation analysis can be based on an intention to develop. It looks at what the goals are intended to be achieved by law, and when a few or three years have passed, an analysis will be carried out. It is also the experience of our external partners that the implementation of the law must take place for a certain period of time, only then can it be assessed whether the objectives have been achieved, whether the expected effects have occurred. Due to the fact that good legislative practice has only been in place for a few years, we can start this work next year, and that is what the Ministry is doing. The second issue concerned excessive bureaucracy and too many layers of legislation. The various codification projects undertaken, which aim to review all regulations relating to a specific area in different laws, play an important role here. It is necessary to review what is necessary, what is unnecessary, what has lived your life, and to make the text of the law more understandable and accessible to those interested in one place. I hope that the European Commission will take the same direction. It has been said at the Justice Ministers' meetings that before starting to initiate new European Union directives and regulations, legislation that already works in similar or similar areas must be looked at very critically in order not to burden Member States with excessive legislative acts. Otherwise, they will not be able to take over their legal space, and sometimes they will not be able to adapt. So this is the right direction. I repeat, good legislative practice came into force a few years ago. I believe that in the coming years we will also come to an analysis of concrete implementation, which is one of the areas of work of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U13	Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Developments in legal policy foresee that action should be both open and predictable and that it should probably also be visible in the government's agenda. I ask you that, given the need for analysis and involvement, how it has been possible to meet these requirements, for example, when dealing with fast-track loans or collecting maintenance funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U15	I think that there is a good example of inclusion on both issues. The Ministry of Justice is developing two draft laws on fast-track loans, one on the cost rate of fast-track loans and related aspects, the other on the cost of recovering the loan. These texts were written on the basis of a great deal of the experience of our immediate neighbours. Here, too, we need to look at whether high-speed lenders have a strong interest in us or, on the contrary, this service will disappear at all. The market here in the Nordic countries can't get jealous. And another thing: when the projects in this area were ready in different wordings, all the organisations involved in this area began to be consulted early on. The main partner has been a banking union, but in fact many of the bailiffs have been able to speak up to the representatives of the arbitration tribunals. The arguments were quite heated. Finally, we may not have reached a full consensus, but at least those wordings that could best fit our legal order. A similar process is currently underway in writing legislation on the recovery of debts from maintenance creditors. It also involves organisations that link those people who are struggling with debtors because of their maintenance debts, as well as public authorities. We have quite heated disputes, because very many of the measures concerning the influence of maintenance creditors are linked to different licensed activities and their limitation. These are good examples that we have a legitimate objective, but it is only possible to achieve this in close cooperation with those who stand in the way in order to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U16	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U17	Dear Vice-Chairman, Mr. Minister! There's a bill that's stuck somehow. I admit it seems to me to be one of the most important drafts left hanging. I don't even know the number because he's hanging up so that the number's gone. With better disadvantage, I call it a conditional draft of the Glikman-Reps Act, where there is a great deal of talk about things such as illegal stalking and searching, in a word, all kinds of special operations and, at all, almost human rights violations that law enforcement authorities can do. There were over a hundred suggestions for improvement, if I am not mistaken, and we were all more or less in agreement that a third of them might be meaningless and are not needed, but two thirds are still important. Where's the project?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U18	Thank you. This project is still at a certain stage of analysis, but it's already moving towards you. It now expects the last coordination from the Bar Association and I hope that in a few weeks it will be ready to be signed and sent to the Government of the Republic. We in the Ministry of Justice call this a package of fundamental rights and freedoms, and it concerns the procedures for search and arrest. In anticipation, as I said in the last sentence of my report, the cost of legal clarity is time and means. The sums necessary for the implementation of this law are also quite cumbersome, as we are significantly increasing the costs of state legal aid and also the work of judges in making certain decisions, as this burden is passed on from the prosecutor's office to the courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U19	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U20	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. On 1 October this year, the President pardoned two people who had been put behind bars for distributing drugs. In this connection, I have a question for you. Does this mean that the course of national justice policy is to soften the sanctions of those involved in drug trafficking?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U21	It is not my place to comment on the President's decision. The President is a constitutional institution and is free to make a decision. However, I do not see any legal policy direction towards softening the sanctions for drug crime. In my opinion, these penalties have been quite severe in recent years compared to those in the countries close to us. Rather, the question is whether this has contributed in any way to the reduction in drug deaths. Unfortunately, not as much as we need to. Life has shown that reducing the number of drug deaths can be helped by catching those low-level drug dealers who spread that death on the street. But I will not see any legislative shift in this regard as Minister of Justice in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U22	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Pines!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You devoted much of your presentation to strengthening and improving the legislative process. One of the best legislative practices is that the Riigikogu receives drafts together with implementing provisions. Last week, the law on cohabitation, which caused a lot of noise, had provisions for the first time, after which they disappeared somewhere. Do you think it's a good practice or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U24	Let us begin by saying that last week's cohabitation act is a law initiated by the Riigikogu. Yes, I admit that the Ministry of Justice has always, on request, helped the Riigikogu to put its draft laws, say, in order. The fact that the implementing act is not together with the so-called Constitutional Bill, I am talking here about the Constitution, not the Constitution, is not a violation of any good practice, it has been before. Let us take the same law of order, one of which caused problems. But yes, the development of implementing legislation in itself after the entry into force of the law in some long-term perspective is not exceptional. We know that the Cohabitation Act will enter into force on 1 January 2016 and that considering its different applications should become one of the routine tasks of next year. The law governing the sector itself has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U25	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns single parents who are forced to raise their children alone. As we know, we have a well-functioning penitentiary system, but later on, people are facing quite a lot of problems in getting this money. My question is this: do you think that regulation on the receipt of money is sufficient or do you think that something needs to be changed in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U27	Something is already being changed in this area. I even suggest that next week the Ministry of Justice will send a bill to the coordination circle designed to influence maintenance debtors to fulfil their obligations to their children. I have also said this before that we can increase child support no matter how much this is a necessary measure, but children who do not even receive compulsory care from both parents still have to live largely either in poverty or on the poverty line. That is why we are currently preparing a draft law to restrict the rights of parents who ignore their responsibilities. This is from the right of driving currently under discussion to certain licences in the field of fisheries and hunting. And if a parent does not show his or her income and lets someone else take his or her place in fulfilling his or her financial obligations, then the goal is still to figure out a way in which these children too can be paid a living allowance. This is a large package that is expected to reach the government and also the Riigikogu in the near future. I hope that we will have a lively debate on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U28	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In earlier years, the Riigikogu reached the draft law on courts, the content of which was to change the principles of jurisdiction of courts. Although we haven't gotten far. What is the position of the Ministry of Justice in this regard today, based on developments in legal policy? Is there anything else to expect in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U30	I think the law of the courts is a very important issue. This has been discussed for years, but the procedure in the Riigikogu would require a longer term than three or four months. For me, as Minister of Justice, it is important that the courts reach an agreement among themselves on which model best suits them. The Courts' Administration Advisory Board has discussed this from time to time. In the meantime, there has been a proposal on the water to place all the courts under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, which is currently off the agenda. The President of the Supreme Court is also not an ardent advocate of the Supreme Court. In general, I think that, like other national institutions, courts sometimes need some modernisation. After all, it is a constitutional institution. I am sure that this discussion will continue in the next Riigikogu. These things do not happen over the top, and in the case of courts who have to bear a certain degree of conservatism, it is very natural. But I'm sure this discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U31	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U32	Thank you, manager. Minister, do you not think that in some respects the laws are too lenient? This particularly concerns the major VAT fraud that Mr Sõerd asked about and fraud in the construction business. Construction companies are going to be set up, they're going to be bankrupt soon, they're going to pay taxes, and it looks like they're going to get out of it. Has it not been considered to impose a business ban on such individuals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U33	We have a business or business ban as an additional punishment in the Penal Code. It is a matter of case law whether it should be determined or not, and it is determined from time to time. Rather, the question is how to apply a business ban if it is not Estonia's own company. For example, a person who has been banned from business in Finland comes to Estonia and starts his business with the idea that this may be a jar here, as they say in Estonian. There are a wide range of initiatives across the European Union to prevent this. Probably every new scheme used in economic crime will make countries react accordingly. We are taking all these same VAT frauds in different spheres, such as excise fraud, at some point and the country has responded adequately. But it must be taken into account that villains are, unfortunately, very progressive in their thinking and international reach; they often develop their schemes faster than the state. It's inevitable all over the world. However, I believe that the country has been able to significantly reduce the loss of income in recent years by moving one step after them and sometimes stepping on top of them as well. I hope that laws will enter into force in the near future to further improve the situation. It is, as they say, an endless story, but it must be taken part, otherwise we will never see the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U34	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Andres Anvelt. We're opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups shall be present. Please, Neeme the Great, representative of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U35	Thank you for that clarification. Let's take that into account. Now the negotiations are over, I'm closing them. The debate on this item is also closed. We thank the Minister and all the other participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U36	Personally, I think that we could also consider a longer deadline as usual for tabling amendments. The date of entry into force of the draft act depends in many respects on the number and nature of the acts relating to the draft act. Where there is a large number of operational operations, a longer date of entry into force than usual is also appropriate. The decision of the Riigikogu "The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018" has a significant impact on Estonian legislation. The government and the Riigikogu themselves still have enough room for improvement in the implementation of good legislative practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U37	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you have read the document which is the basis for today's debate. Allow me to return to the beginning for a moment and refer to the Riigikogu's decision to the full text I will not read, I will limit myself to the first and last sentences on the approval of 'Provisions of Justice Policy until 2018'. It has been adopted on 23 February 2011. The decision states that, due to the need to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of everyone and to increase the coherence of society and the effectiveness of the legal system, the Riigikogu, first of all, decides to propose to the Government of the Republic to pursue a consistent legal policy, based on the 'Provisions of Justice Policy until 2018' approved by the Riigikogu by that decision, and secondly, to propose to the Government of the Republic to present a presentation to the Riigikogu, no later than 1 November of each year, on the implementation of developments in legal policy. It's been three and a half years since that decision. The decision directly concerned the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of legal policy. The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Justice. The report is made annually by the Minister of Justice. During the past three and a half years, a total of 613 legislative acts have been dealt with in the Riigikogu, of which 354, or 57%, initiated by the Government of the Republic and 232, or 37%, initiated by the Riigikogu and others. 495 legislative acts have been adopted, of which 348 or 72% were drafts of the Government of the Republic. 118 initiatives have been rejected, of which only six were drafts of the Government of the Republic. Despite the fact that there have been a little more than a dozen plans to draft the law, hundreds of legislative acts being processed, we can see, however, that the proposal made to the Government of the Republic has been taken seriously. The Guidelines have been issued and taken into account. However, statistics show that not only the Government of the Republic is involved in the design of legal policy. About a quarter of the legislative initiatives come from the Riigikogu itself. Compliance with the principles of legal policy is also relevant for initiatives that have arisen in the Riigikogu itself. It is also appropriate to take into account the instructions adopted in 2012 by the Riigikogu Executive Board to shape good practice in the handling of draft laws in the Riigikogu. In this context, it is appropriate to raise the question of whether some of the principles set out in the indicative documents should not become part of the law. There are some other aspects to which I would like to draw attention today; they relate precisely to the activities of the Riigikogu itself. It seems to me that in recent months the importance of the work of Riigikogu committees has become very clear to the public. This must also be given priority to the open organisation of the work of the committees. The Social Democrats have on several occasions presented a draft for increasing the openness of the committees' work. The relevant draft is still under the proceedings of the 330 Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' own draft 651. I very much hope that these initiatives will find a positive solution. The second aspect concerns inclusion. It is particularly important to hear and take into account the opinion of target and stakeholder groups in the case of wider drafts. This applies to the drafts of both the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. It is also very important that amendments are tabled. It is by submitting amendments that the political groups and individual members of the Riigikogu can contribute to improving the quality of the draft and shaping its content. Organisations and persons outside the Riigikogu can also intervene in designing the bill through proposals made directly by the leading committees, but also by the political groups and individual members of the Riigikogu. We could consider whether it is sufficient time for the amendments to be tabled so far, which are regarded as normal, to be tabled. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U38	What if a maintenance claim has come into effect, but a person who is obliged to pay it simply does not have money? Today, the political decision of the power parties is that if a parent does not pay a living, his parents are obliged to do so. The Centre Party considers that this is a very wrong solution in a situation where we know that the income of older people is not enough even to buy their own medicines. Some people can't even afford a warm room. I will conclude my speech on the draft of the criminal proceedings. Yesterday, the Bar Association sent a letter to all members of the Riigikogu pointing out the fact that the state wants to deprive people of their constitutional right to claim damages if the State has caused them harm in the course of an offence procedure. This letter states that the draft law on compensation for damage caused by an offence had to and should be the object of the above-mentioned and so far unregulated shortcomings, enabling individuals to claim compensation for the damage caused by the State. The draft that is pending, which the Riigikogu is about to adopt, but, on the contrary, rather precludes the recognition of damage or at least significantly restricts this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation is being drafted. Have you asked how your voters feel about this if you deprive people of the right to claim compensation for the damage caused by the state? My constituents don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U39	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U40	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U41	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U42	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister. Mr Neeme the Great presented very good statistics on the laws and where the drafts have come from. There's nothing to repeat. In general, we currently have 398 laws, 324 of them have been amended, which is actually a small country and a completely sufficient number of our administrative capacity. At the same time, there is a risk that the volume of legislation in Estonia may start to grow again at some point, because every new Riigikogu has a desire to do something without asking whether it is necessary. So question No. 1: Why are laws made, and where are they needed? Reply No. 1 is that very often the Government of the Republic needs laws, who in his work finds a hole somewhere, who wants to do something and wants to know whether or not he can do it. And if it can be done, it needs legislative guidance. Secondly, the Committee on Legal Affairs, and all the committees at all, may receive a signal from their constituents that there is a gap somewhere and something must be done to fill this gap. Speaking of strategic choices that should be developed, I would mention three very important areas where our legislation still lacks something. First of all, in my opinion, despite our victorious reports, business is far from right. Secondly, competition concerns. This is what we are seeing today in connection with the organisation of the ferry connection competition. And thirdly, the legal status and regulation of state-owned companies was again, for example, by barges, but also by Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia is not responsible for what it does. His poor child, including Sandor Liive, simply has to act according to a law that cannot be understood. Another important incentive for lawmaking is that the court needs help. He may really need help in some critical situations related to the Constitution. With regard to the rest, on the contrary, we should leave the court with the opportunity to design a case-based Estonian legal system. The court is, in this sense, a more democratic institution than the Riigikogu. Laws are also based on interest groups. With interest groups, we have this problem that we do not have one very important law, namely the law on lobbying and lobby law, i.e. how certain groups, including pressure groups and interest groups, can access the vigilante completely legally and without fear of tagging the press. I want to stress that the lobby group represents the voters. And the fact that voters in the form of a lobby group cannot get to the MP representing these or their views, and that this desire is being confused with corruption and do not know what is abnormal. After all, there are all sorts of interest groups involved in individual laws, whether they are timber producers, geologists, conservationists, rose growers or fishermen, who may not have a national representative organisation. By the way, with regard to the law on alcohol consumption, I would like to say that I have the impression that, despite Mikhail Stalnukhin's position, Estonians generally drink. And what is interesting is that consumers of alcohol, who should be a rather representative group, are not involved in the relevant discussions. I would like to highlight, for example, the basic question, which is the restriction that alcohol may not be sold at night, can be sold from 10 to 10. It's crazy from the end to the end! And drunks haven't been asked about it at all. At the same time, they certainly make up more than two thirds of all voters, and thanks to them too, this country is largely built. I would mention a number of issues that we should be dealing with and which the Minister of Justice could also take into account in his work plan. The first thing is that, in a world that is likely to be increasingly technical, increasingly complex, we need a single codification act that concerns the whole IT area. All the more so as our own person, i.e. an Estonian person, will be responsible for this area throughout the European Union in the coming period. Question 2: What to do with the European Union Treaties? We are talking about 300 laws here, but there are over 90,000 pages of the EU Code based directly on the Treaties. And the last thing I want to draw particular attention to is that we are indirectly responsible for everything, the entire Riigikogu, the tragedy that has taken place in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Estonia. There is incompetence and lawlessness, there is no monitoring of any of the activities of the prosecutor's office, and this is also our fault. Now the question is whether we are introducing some sort of parliamentary supervision over the activities of the prosecutor's office, or whether we are faced with the fact that the current insane situation is getting worse. This is the choice place where we should face problems. And finally. Good lawmaking, which the Minister talked about so much, means that we are keeping to good lawmaking practice in this house. I would point out here that whether you want it or not, let us admit that, in the case of very many draft laws, we really do act as a rubber stamp. The law of cohabitation is an excellent example. The second and third readings were between 21 hours, and it took the President four minutes to read the law. I cannot call this good legislation, and I think we need to think about it, especially in a situation where good lawmaking practices are ignored in Kadriorg itself. Next to this, we can add the approval of the ESM, for which the opponents were given 50 minutes to think. Against this background, to say that we have ten days to propose amendments and that maybe it should be extended, I say, 'Neem, don't joke! " Let's make sure that there is at least 24 hours left to do so! Or an alternative proposal: to eliminate the difference between second and third readings as a mere mockery of the MPs. There will be no substantial work during this period. And while we're talking about the Rules of Procedure, there's one more thing. We've always said that, but it keeps coming up once a year, and that's when eyes tend to close. Should we not change the rules in the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to make it impossible or at least more difficult for an obstruction during the procedure of the draft law, particularly the draft budget law? They were just a few thoughts. If we did not have such a good minister who presented such a good report, these thoughts would not have come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U43	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U44	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I gathered my thoughts by listening to the presentation and following my fellow Members' questions and the Minister's answers. Therefore, my present presentation is not such a beautiful chorus of song, as my colleagues' speeches seemed. Why this report at all, Neeme made it pretty clear to us. If you stick to the Minister's presentation in general terms, it is difficult to exceed the news threshold, but it is certainly difficult for both the Ministry of Justice and the Riigikogu to make a press release. In general, everything is fine, and the awakening points come to mind when you go to specific laws or drafts. Today's subject is good lawmaking practice, and a great deal has been criticised here or, in any way, mentioned as a remark, that good law has been violated in the case of the Cohabitation Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that there is no reason to deal with these two things together, because they really have nothing in common. The law of cohabitation was made in its rhythm, and good regulation was in another place at that time. Analysis of impacts is certainly also an important keyword. But I dare say that the explanatory statement can put together all sorts of influences. The Minister of Justice spoke today about how his brilliant draft has come to the Committee on Legal Affairs. It deals with the percentage rate of charge for fast-track loans, and yesterday we discussed it. I can say that there is no very clear understanding of how many people this charging rate will actually affect. For whoever needs the money, who consumes the resources of these lenders, this rate is still too high for any ceiling, and no impact analysis will help here. People are still in trouble with their loans. But maybe now some people are being kept away from these borrowings, so that's helpful. Now, the law of law and this alcohol rule. I dare say that Mr Mikhail Korb was a hypocrite here when he spoke about how the Centre Party was making desperate attempts to reverse the situation. During the vote on the same law enforcement law, there were no political parties in this Chamber who would have voted against this draft. And I say that the impact that this law has had on the implementation of this law is, in some ways, also positive if this bad picture can be approached from such a point of view. Many people learned that there are a number of drunks in Estonia. Before that, it wasn't like I had the right idea, was it? Surely we also learned that it is also important when one law or another comes into force. I think that, in the event of entry into force on 1 January, this is not a criticism, but a place to think would have been different. On 1 July, all the news channels rang out of the opportunity to exploit the warm weather and start throwing a drink outside. In January, this appeal would not have sounded so fierce. We will certainly be discussing here how the law could be corrected, but I say that drunks remain in the Estonian state either way or otherwise, and they are not strangers to us. They're somebody's sisters, brothers, classmates, sons, fathers. And now there's a point, so what do you really want to do with this thing? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U45	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U46	Certainly, thanks to the law of law, we have also learned more about the fact that the people of Estonia are not prepared to use all the freedoms offered to them. Hence the question of whether liberal politics has a place in Estonia. We've had well-known Wafflesmen. After all, we remember the democratic package, which included the draft laws that the Social Democrats brought before us. Without really believing in them, I suggest that the Minister should take the first aid package, I mean it sincerely, to get well and give my people in the ministry a wink so that this path towards good lawmaking is not something separate from the government. When God gave the office of Minister of Justice, all ideas generated by coalition or otherwise must be kept on the pulse. Thanks! Laws are also being made in Estonia after today!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U47	Thank you very much. Do you want to exercise the right of reply or do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U48	I have an objection. I am very sorry, but it took me ten minutes to understand that Mr Gräzin was simply confusing the last names when he just put an opinion in my mouth. For the sake of the tenogram, I would like to make it clear: Gräzin mentioned Stalnukhin, but it was the Korb. I don't think Gräzin's used to having two Mikhail in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U49	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Korb as representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U50	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U51	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the explanatory memorandum to 'Regulatory policy developments until 2018', the concept and legal idea of the legal policy of the Republic of Estonia is the basis document for our constitution. Legislation must be based primarily on the constitutional provisions that guarantee individual rights and organisation of the state. However, when assessing their implementation, we must go beyond the Constitution and analyse the quality of legislation on the basis of the legislative changes made. Today, I will briefly mention three issues that have emerged in the implementation of the policies of the government departments, precisely because they have been subject to social reproach. First of all, I am talking about the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act, namely the authorisation of the consumption of alcoholic beverages in public spaces, and second, about single parents who have difficulty in receiving maintenance payments. I will conclude my speech with a draft law pending in the Riigikogu, which should sort of eliminate the anti-constitutional situation, but, as the barrister's office has confirmed, rather prevents people from exercising their fundamental rights. We talk a lot every day to increase the quality of legislation so that people have confidence in the state. On 1 July this year the Law Enforcement Act came into force, which made alcohol consumption in the public space in Estonia acceptable. Reflecting back on this political decision will inevitably raise the question of whose confidence was to be gained by liberalising alcohol policy. Estonia or Brussels? The people have never wished for this; this is confirmed both before the legislative amendment and by the surveys that have now been carried out. Nevertheless, at that time, the authorisation of drinking in public space was explained as follows: there is a widespread perception that alcohol consumption or even drunkenness is prohibited in public places. It is said to be hypocritical and completely incompatible with the evening civilization, where moderate alcohol consumption is socially adequate. The Centre Party is not in favour of such an approach. As a result, at the first autumn session of the Riigikogu, we handed over a bill that again does not allow alcohol to be consumed in public places. Thanks to the cooperation of very many people, the Government of the Republic finally realised that Estonia does not tolerate drinking in bus stops, streets and parks. When we come back to the quality of regulation, this is a real example of what happens when political decisions are excluded from the human factor. All of us have someone we know or acquaintance who raises a child or children alone and whose survival depends also on whether the other parent pays the children a living allowance. There is a well-functioning system of court settlements in Estonia, which is unfortunately only one ray of sunshine between the clouds, not sunshine, which should alleviate the situation of a difficult parent. This is a system that does not protect a single parent if the other parent evades payment. Government departments have created a situation in which, by enforcing the judicial solution, single parents are being signaled that yes, we are helping you. We understand a living, but the way you get it is your own concern. Of course, you can use the bailiff's help, but you can still face an unsolvable situation. Madam President, more time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U52	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U53	We go to today's second item, which is the first reading of draft 342 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhini, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U54	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On September 1, 1991, Estonia was accepted as a member of the United Nations. The request confirmed cooperation with other countries in pursuing the objectives of this global international organisation, in accordance with the UN Charter and the principles set out in the Declaration of Principles of International Law on Friendly Relations and Cooperation adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1970. Now, closer to the bill. 5.2.23. The 61st session of the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination held on 8 August 2002 discussed the reports submitted by the Member States as required by the UN International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, namely Article 9 thereof. In the final remarks of the meeting of the Committee on the Elimination of Racist Discrimination, the Estonian Government was advised to join several UN human law instruments, including the UNESCO Convention against Educational Discrimination adopted in 1960. One of the reasons for the recommendation was the insufficient reduction of discrimination in the Estonian education system. Other things you can read in the explanatory memorandum. I would add that the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, as the initiator, follows from the above and takes into account the UN's recommendations to start the process of accession to this Convention in order to ensure a non-discrimination-free Estonian education policy. I must add that this is one of the cases where the 'normal voter' has paid the legislator's attention to the fact that several very important UN and UNESCO conventions have not been ratified in Estonia. This is one of the first to join in today's session we are asking for the support of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U55	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U56	I would like to speak with Jaak Aaviksoo, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U57	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has discussed the proposal of the Centre Party Group four times: the first time on 11 March 2013, then on 19 March last year, and on 22 April and 7 October this year. In 2013, discussions focused mainly on the question of whether accession to the Convention was justified. It was found that, in principle, it could be included in this convention, but since it was not translated into Estonian, the subject was suspended for a while. The translation and legal analysis of the Convention are now ready on the initiative of the Ministry of Education, so all the necessary preparations have been made to start discussing this proposal in substance. In previous discussions, it has been stated that the anti-discrimination concept adopted in 1960 was, by its very nature, a "post-colonial" document, in particular with regard to racial discrimination. That is the seal that this convention bears. Accession to this Convention has quite clearly shown that in recent years the accession of many countries, including large countries, such as the United States, has been sporadic. There is no longer any substantive relevance to this Convention for most developed countries. The position of the Ministry of Education and Research is important here. On 7 October, a lawyer, Indrek Kilk, represented by the Ministry of Education, attended our meeting, who said that the management of the Ministry of Education and Research had decided on 30 September to support its accession to the Convention against discrimination in the field of education and that this decision was based on three fundamental arguments. One is that Estonia has been a member of UNESCO since 1991 and accession to various UNESCO conventions is part of membership. In addition, as my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin claimed, Estonia has been asked why Estonia has not joined this convention. As a third argument, the lawyer of the Ministry of Education and Research stated that they have analysed this convention and Estonian legislation and practice and it can be said that all regulations arising from the convention have already been incorporated into Estonian legislation. So, in essence, the adoption of this document does not force us to change our legislation. The Constitutional Committee also discussed that if the Ministry of Education and Research and the Government as a whole are prepared to implement this draft on their own initiative, then why should the Riigikogu draw attention? On this matter, the opinions of the members of the committee were divided, but the atmosphere remained peaceful, so it was considered possible to proceed both on the Government's initiative and through the relevant draft decision of the Riigikogu. As has already been mentioned, the question of why it has taken so long to deal with it is worth answering. As we know, the draft has not even been submitted in 2013, but already in December 2012. The main reason is that the Ministry of Education and Research carried out legal analysis and translation of the Convention. As far as we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no objection to accession to the Convention either. Consequently, at its meeting on 7 October, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided that we would propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session (this decision was consensual), that the final vote on the draft be carried out (five members of the Commission, four abstentions) and that Jaak Aaviksoo, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U58	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Jaak Aaviksoo! Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U59	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat once again after the previous speaker: the Ministry of Education is in favour of this convention being ratified. There are no objections from the Ministry, and this is quite logical and absolutely normal. Another thing is when it would have been handled on its own initiative. I think that since there was not even an Estonian text, it probably could have rested in peace for another 10 to 20 years without anyone thinking about it. So now it is not as much about this particular convention as it is about another matter. As the morning attendance check showed, there should be well over 51 people in this hall and elsewhere in the Riigikogu building. Given that there was no discussion and no objections, it is unlikely that anyone will vote against. The only question is whether this draft decision will receive 51 votes in favour. This means that, in the case of a completely logical and tolerant decision to which there are no arguments against, the question will be whether we are tolerant only in deciding on this convention or also in party politics. In other words, it will soon be clear whether the draft proposed by the opposition will receive at least the same 51 votes in favour in the most positive scenario. We look forward to your support, however, in the hope, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U60	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments to the draft were received. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 342. We are preparing for the final vote. Since the decision requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 37 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 64 are missing. This information does not prevent us from voting on this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote draft 342 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. The draft did not find any support and would fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U61	We are going to the third item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of draft Act 635 on compensation for damage caused in criminal proceedings initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like a presentation by Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, a little reminder. This draft has been developed by officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court and is the result of an endless dispute over the liability of the state, i.e. the property responsibility of the state, in the event that the state or state bodies cause damage to private persons or their associations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs initiated this draft. a on 27 March 2004. The first reading took place on 3 June and the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 June. By this deadline, no amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, but the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Estonian Bar Association, the Estonian Cities Association and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments submitted their views on the draft. The Government of the Republic also gave its opinion. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at its two meetings on 15 and 23 September. Representatives of all the above institutions, as well as drafters, took part in the meeting on 15 September. The Commission heard all the opinions and decided to continue the debate. In addition to members of the Riigikogu, officials of the Ministry of Justice attended the meeting on 23 September. On the basis of all these discussions and opinions, ten proposals have been made to amend the draft. A little closer to the discussions that have now been held. I will start with the meeting of the Commission on 15 September, to which representatives of all the institutions that submitted their proposals for the draft in writing were invited. So let's take it institutionally. The state prosecutor's office was represented by Dilaila Nahkur-Tammiksaar, whose positions were reflected in the written opinion of the prosecutor's office. First, § 7 of the draft law, which also concerns compensation for non-material damage. The desire of the Public Prosecutor's Office was to equalise the liability of the judge and the judge and to provide, at the level of the law, that the defendant is liable only if he has committed a criminal offence. Therefore, all other parties to proceedings should be treated in the same way as judges. However, Mrs Tammiksar admitted that, of course, regulation can also be written down in such a way that compensation for non-material damage can only be claimed in the event of serious violations of fundamental rights. The second position of the prosecutor's office was to consider the introduction of a limit on compensation for non-material damage, as this issue raises wide-ranging disputes. Thirdly, the prosecutor's office was concerned that the entry into force of the draft would lead to a large number of parallel disputes in addition to ongoing criminal proceedings, as Article 7 of the draft provides that a claim for damages may already be brought during criminal proceedings without a final decision being taken. Fourthly, the prosecutor's office drew attention to § 5 (5) of the draft, which states that damages may also be claimed if the property is not confiscated. The prosecutor's representative recalled that the property would not be confiscated by the court even if the civil action of the victim was granted on its behalf. And fifthly, the prosecutor's office referred to the fact that, under subsections 16 (1) and 17 (2) of the draft, all complaints must be sent to the next instance, even in a situation where the complaint is dismissed within the deadline. This means that if the DA's office doesn't review the complaint by the deadline, the next instance will resolve it. That's what the DA's office thought was unreasonable. While more specific questions were put to the prosecutor's office, Dilaila Nahkur-Tammiksaar replied very clearly that the position of the prosecutor's office was that the judge should be liable only for serious negligence or intent, not for any faulty behaviour. The Estonian Bar Association, represented by attorney-at-law Leon Glikman, was then given the opportunity to explain its positions. The position of the Bar Association is that, since § 25 of the Constitution has been formulated as a fundamental right without any reservation of law, there is actually no basis to limit the liability of the State. Leon Glikman also considered that compensation for damage caused by an offence should be dealt with by the administrative court and not by the General Court. In his view, it is not understandable why a criminal court should do so if the whole issue of responsibility of the other state is submitted to the administrative court. The attorney-general also stated that the mentality in criminal courts in Estonia is slightly different from that in administrative courts, and since only 0.4% of the defendants in Estonia are found to be acquitted, it is doubtful how the damages procedure would take place. Tiina Ühenevav, who represented the Union of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, informed the Commission that the local government associations maintain their position that if the state imposes any obligations on them, then the money must also be allocated from the state budget to fulfil these obligations. In this context, their position was a little strange, when an official causes harm to someone in the process of misdemeanour, it should be paid by the State. The Commission had a longer debate on whether the autonomy of the municipalities and their constitutional right to be compensated for the obligations imposed on them by the State were guaranteed. However, this problem was solved by the Commission for itself simply, by saying that the issue was not related to the draft. The explanations were also given at the committee meeting by Illimar from the Ministry of Pärnamägi, who is one of the authors of the draft. There was a very distinct understanding of the responsibility of the state in the criminal proceedings between the prosecutor's office and the barrister's office. The members of the Commission listened to these views and decided to continue the debate. For the second time, the Commission met to discuss the draft on 23 September. At that time, it had come to the point that specific amendments had been formulated. Some of them are legal, and I'm not going to stop at them any longer. However, the Commission also discussed a very substantive question of its nature, i.e. whether, in the event of damage being caused by the defendant, its actions in the event of damage, liability must, in any event, be incurred in the event of faulty conduct, or only in the event of intent or gross negligence. Should the so-called ordinary negligence be relieved of the responsibility of the defendant? The last position was represented by the prosecutor's office. After hearing the explanations of Illimar Pärnamäe, the Commission was of the opinion that no exception would be made. In the event of any guilty conduct, the defendant shall be liable and liable to compensation for the damage suffered. The issue of whether these matters should be submitted to the Administrative Court or to the General Court was once again discussed. The majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs maintained a position identical to that of the drafters: these issues should be settled before the General Court. I represent the opposite, the same position as that of the bar Association, so that they can be discussed by the administrative court. At the same time, I also expressed the opinion at the meeting of the committee that it could and may be, since we still expect both courts, both administrative courts and general courts, to operate in Estonia on the basis of the law and the principle of justice. There were also opinions that compensation for non-material damage should be excluded from this draft at all and that non-material damage caused by the parties to proceedings should only be dealt with in civil proceedings. However, the Commission was consensually of the view that non-material damage, including the taunting of honour and good name, must also be compensated and dealt with together with all other claims for damages. Parallel procedures were also discussed once again. Opinions were divided into several pages. Some felt that parallel proceedings should attempt at all to avoid that damages should only be dealt with after the final settlement of the case or misdemeanour proceedings had been completed. However, the position remained that, in certain cases, it is reasonable to allow parallel proceedings, as there is no point in waiting for long litigation to end, which goes through three instances. An example is the fact that a third party's TV has been broken in the course of a truly illegal search. So it was maintained that parallel proceedings were possible. That is how this bill went to Parliament's Chamber for second reading. What else? That is all, the table of amendments has been given to you. All amendments are formulated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All proposals have been made by the Commission by consensus and the Commission is asking the large Chamber to support all amendments. It was decided procedurally on 23 September to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 14 October, i.e. today. This was proposed by consensus and it was proposed unanimously to conclude the second reading of the draft today. For the sake of clarity, one more thing. Yesterday, a letter came from the Estonian Bar Association, where the Bar Association once again draws attention to the fact that the Estonian Constitution does not provide any legal reservation to impose any limits on compensation for damage, including in the criminal proceedings. As such, he disputes the constitutional compatibility of draft law 635. I would like the verbatim report of the Riigikogu to remain an indication that the draft we are discussing, and in particular § 9 (2) thereof, states in black and white that the'manager may change the amount of compensation provided for in this chapter if this compensation is not fair, taking into account the important circumstances of the case and the legitimate interests of the case. " What does this chapter and other paragraphs say? They actually provide a method of compensation for damage, calculation of damage, but this provision allows for a review of this methodology in a case-by-case case and for both judges and practitioners to decide differently from the formulas set out in those paragraphs. That should take away the fear of the barrister. I spoke today to a representative of the Ministry of Justice who fully shared my logic, and therefore I see no reason to delay this bill in progress. I propose to support these amendments and to conclude the second reading of the draft today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-14_U63	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. Ten amendments to the draft have been received from the commission, which they have taken into account. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and Amendment 10. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 635. Second reading is over. Our agenda today has run out. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.55 a.m.
