ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honorable guests! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the VIIIth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Ambassador of the 12 Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I present an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Urve Palo. On 1 January 2015, amendments to the Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and to the Liquefied Fuel Special Labelling Act will enter into force, according to which at the beginning of January the containers may no longer contain light fuel oil, all residues must be returned. On 1 May, the same ban will apply to the use of specially labelled diesel. Already in the course of the proceedings of this bill, it became apparent that the State does not have sufficient insight into the actual effects of this law, not to mention the plan to contribute to the upgrading of heating systems that have used light fuel oil so far. It is estimated that some 2 000 small buildings, more than 200 apartment buildings and more than 180 boiler houses owned by local authorities are affected. Since this is a problem that needs to be resolved quickly, which concerns housing and heating, and affects people and municipalities in a significant way, we have a number of questions to which we expect answers from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Alliku, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U4	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit to the proceedings of the Riigikogu the draft law amending § 10 of the Law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property prepared by Etti Kagarov and Jaak Allik, members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U5	No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. I have adopted one draft and one inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U6	We are going to the procedure on today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the debate on a key national issue, 'An altered security situation in Europe'. Dear colleagues, allow me to briefly present the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of our Home and Working Procedures Act. First, the presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is up to 20 minutes, after which questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. Followed by Foreign Minister Urmas Paet's presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. The Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser will then be speaking for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened, where all members of the Riigikogu can speak. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. If I may, we will come back to this proposal as necessary. As always, the Riigikogu will not take a decision on matters of vital importance for national affairs at the end of the debate. It is a great honour to invite Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U7	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Never before in the history of our continent have the peoples of Europe lived in such prosperity and freedom as it is now. And probably never before has the globalising world offered Europe as diverse security challenges as we see and feel now. In many parts of the world, it tends to be the fact that the post-WWII international relations system has fallen under extreme pressure. The question is whether the world will be able to move forward by applying existing international law when we are faced with greater confrontations and even conflicts. Europe's security is challenged simultaneously by Russia's aggression, the growing spread of Islamic extremism in the Middle East and North Africa, China's irreversible rise to world leadership and cross-border global phenomena such as cyber terrorism and poverty migration. In the end, the rejection of the increasingly deadly Ebola virus must be taken very seriously. According to the World Health Organisation, the weekly increase in the number of people affected may reach 10,000 at the end of the year. During the Cold War, the world seemed at least significantly easier on the outside. This was also reflected in the then shared Europe, where the free world was confronted with Russian imperialism hidden behind communist ideology. Now there are only so many different country-specific power and influence centres, not to mention other factors, that understanding the world and designing the best policies on its surface are much more difficult than before. It is no secret that the changes directly affecting us and our immediate region in the European security environment are largely linked primarily to the increasing aggression of Russia, which we have observed over the past few years. In fact, Russia has become perhaps the greatest challenge to the coherence of the whole Western world. If any of the moments in the recent history of the European security system are to be defined at all, the speech by Russian President Vladimir Putin at the Munich Security Conference in February 2007 must certainly not be overlooked. It is in this presence that the leader of Russia at the time and the current one clearly signaled: Moscow is not satisfied with the leading role of the Western countries, especially the United States, in the world, and is ready to move from words to deeds. Many immediate Witnesses in Putin's Munich talk recall this moment as a serious shock. But despite the bloody Chechnya War, the suffocation of the opposition, the concentration of power, the restriction of freedom of expression and other domestic developments, the Western vision of Russia was overshadowed by the end of the Cold War. It was rightly assumed that Russia would have more to gain from international trade and partnership-based relations with Western countries than from a great confrontation. However, the currents from Russia's history, which led us back to the policy of influence already known in the 19th century, proved to be stronger. Vladimir Putin, who considered the fall of the Soviet Union to be the biggest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century, began to implement his words and goals consistently after the Munich talk. The first sign of a change in the security situation in Europe was evident in the summer of 2007, when Russia unilaterally withdrew from the Convention on the conventional arms embargo on the continent. This gave Moscow a free hand in placing heavy machinery in strategically important directions without limit, especially in the North Caucasus at the time. In August 2008, the whole world saw that Russia was serious about pursuing its so-called independent foreign policy and creating, maintaining and expanding its influence. Aggression against Georgia and the occupation of one fifth of its territory meant the first real response to the Western world. Russia did not hide that the main objective of attacking Georgia was to prevent NATO enlargement. Less than six years later, the world is witnessing a new and, unfortunately, even more serious conflict that has been branching before our eyes for several months. I mean, of course, Russia's aggression against Ukraine. The occupation and annexation of Crimea became a wake-up call for many who had been in a position to assess the changes that had already begun in the European security environment. Ladies and gentlemen, All these and many other changes in the wider security environment led the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee in 2012 to open in-depth hearings on the security of the Nordic and Baltic regions. So we set the time horizon for 2020. As we can see, a few years ago we assumed that there would be no rapid change in the security environment. Trends were perceived, especially Russia's more active policy of pressure, but the war in Ukraine was not foreseen. It is common practice in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we also ask think tanks for opinions and policy recommendations on more serious issues. At its meeting on 26 January 2012, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed ordering a study on security and presented a proposal to the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to order a study on the topic 'Developments in the security environment of the Nordic and Baltic Sea region until 2020'. Among the three offers received, the International Centre for Defence Research was selected to carry out the survey. The final text of the report, drawn up in cooperation with the Swedish Defence Research Agency Group, was submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 13 September 2012. The authors of the report, led by researcher Riina Kaljuranna of the Centre for Defence Studies, presented us with a list of 24-point policy recommendations, which included both external factors and strengthening regional security identity and cooperation. To present the report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Centre for Defence Studies, held a seminar in the conference hall of the Riigikogu on 15 November 2012, including security experts and researchers, representatives of Estonian authorities, ambassadors and journalists residing in Tallinn. The report is also available to everyone interested on the Riigikogu website. Among the joint recommendations of Estonian and Swedish researchers, the achievement of NATO's political and defence presence, and in particular of the United States as a central security guarantor in the region, was emphasised. The report's recommendations stressed that in view of NATO's and Europe's deterrence plan, it is in Estonia's interest to maintain a balance between conventional weapons forces, ballistic missile defence and tactical nuclear weapons. The preparedness, positioning and capabilities of the North European military forces need to be improved in order to maintain their de-emission potential. The good quality of the report submitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs is demonstrated by the fact that a number of recommendations made by the Centre for Defence Studies two years ago have become a reality. For example, the fact now is the special partnership between Finland and Sweden with NATO and the increasing level of defence cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries. One unimplemented recommendation concerned Estonia's cooperation with our Nordic neighbours on the Arctic issue. The Centre for Defence Studies recommended that Estonia seriously consider, like Poland, applying for observer status in the Arctic Council in order to keep up to date with developments in the Far North and the activities of the parties there, including the European Union and NATO. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers this to be a very substantial proposal. Estonia's observer status in the Arctic Council would allow us to switch more directly to solving the problems of an increasingly important region in a global context, for example through scientific cooperation or the resolution of environmental issues. At the same time, it would allow cooperation with our good Nordic neighbours to be extended. In addition to a study commissioned by the Centre for Defence Studies, 44 security hearings were conducted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs over a period of more than two years. To these, our departure sessions were added to the NATO Cyber Defence Centre, the Information Board and the Tallinn Maritime Guard Centre, as well as regular departure sessions with the National Defence Commission to the Defence Forces General Staff. We also attended international exercises. Estonia's security is clearly linked by the Government of the Republic. a Ratification of the Estonian-Russian border agreements launched on 10 March. In this regard, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has conducted a number of hearings. 13 to 14. On 23 March 2014 the Commission organised a meeting for border regions of Narva and South-East Estonia. Security issues have been exclusively on the agenda of all the most important international meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in recent years, including our meetings in Japan, the Republic of Korea, the United States of America, Russia, Finland, Indonesia, Singapore, China and Poland, as well as the regular meetings of the Chairs of the European Union's Foreign and Defence Committees, the Chairs of the Foreign Committees of the Baltic Parliaments and the Chairs of the Nordic-Baltic Committees. Even this year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to make a visit to Finland and the United States, where a central topic of discussion has undoubtedly changed the security environment in Europe. At its meeting on 23 September 2013, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to draw up its report on the basis of hearings. However, given the sudden and rapid change in the entire security environment this year, the Commission proposed last month to hold a debate on a crucial national issue at the plenary session of the Riigikogu today, 16 October. In doing so, the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws a notional line to its hearing cycle, but, of course, security issues in general remain one of the most important priorities of our work. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the central framework documents of Estonia's foreign and security policy is the basis of the security policy drawn up by the Government of the Republic. The latest update of this document dates back to 2010. In cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government, it has become a good practice to go over these grounds from time to time and, if necessary, to launch the development of policy recommendations. The last such review took place on 14 May 2013 during the joint session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, an in-depth analysis of the implementation of the foundations of Estonian security policy was under discussion by the Government of the Republic. The review presented to us stressed, among other things, that although the validity of the document is not limited in time, the basis of the security policy states that this document will be updated if the security environment changes substantially and there is a need to modernise the security policy. In the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in particular in the last year, there have been changes in the security environment of both us and, more generally, Europe as a whole, which also necessitate the revision and improvement of the foundations of Estonia's security policy. The Government of the Republic could do this as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In today's world, those countries that have strong allies and are active in international cooperation in the field of security are successful in ensuring security. Estonia has a long-term and well-targeted performance in this area, thanks to which we can confidently claim today that Estonia's security has never been as well guaranteed as it is today. Its central axis is our membership in NATO, with constantly expanding bilateral relations with our allies, including Estonia's very good neighbours Finland and Sweden. The credibility of Estonia among its allies, which is primarily based on the fulfilment of our obligations, allows us to be more actively influenced by the renewal of the European security strategy. This is particularly relevant at a time when there are considerably fewer internationally influential politicians, especially among the foreign ministers of the Member States, in the main stage of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, following recent political wars and also elections. This is why it is particularly important that Estonia, together with similar thinking partners, fill this gap more actively and focus the European Union more on strategic thinking. I would argue that the last deficiency has contributed to the deterioration of the security environment. One might ask rhetorically how it is possible that the only security strategy in the European Union so far dates back to 2003 and thus only 15 members of the Community. The attempts to upgrade the strategy have so far been sandy. At the same time, we in the European Union must develop a strategic culture that allows for early, rapid and, if necessary, vigorous intervention. A more coherent and strategically sustainable behaviour of European countries would under no circumstances be contrary to NATO's activities, but would only strengthen the common part of Western cooperation in the area of security and defence. Finally, I would like to stress that Estonia's security is guaranteed more permanently, the more coherent our society is and the more competitive our economy is internationally. In both areas, Estonia should not make any discounts. President Lennart Meri said already in 1997 that if the independence of the Estonian people is visible, if the reputation of the Estonian state is clean and stainless, and if the ability of Estonians to maintain their independence is convincing, the price of Estonian immunity will be so high that it will never have to be protected with a weapon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U8	Mr President, thank you very much. You have questions too. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U9	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Marko! We have talked about the occupation of Georgian territories, and now we know very clearly that Crimea is legally attached to Russia. Are we going to brag and just dream of someone giving these territories back, or have your colleagues from the parliaments of other countries discussed some very resolute measures so that these territories can be withdrawn? It is clear that Russia does not want to give them back. Does this mean that our grandchildren will at some point also talk about the fact that Crimea was once Ukrainian? What opinions are common in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U10	Thank you, Aivar, for this question. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, there have been plenty of colder and hotter conflicts. Unfortunately, to those mentioned by you, for example, the Mountain-Karabakh Troubles, the Transnistrian questionnaire, unfortunately, a new area of very serious conflict that has now arisen in Eastern Ukraine. If it was once said that the breakdown of the USSR went quite bloodlessly and did not lead to major conflicts, unfortunately, now we see that this process is far from over. Therefore, Western countries that care about international law and the functioning of the international system at all, as has been internationally agreed after the Second World War on many occasions, have the principle of not accepting those violations that we have seen first and foremost by Russia in recent months. There is a sanction policy that the European Union, the United States and a number of other countries in the world have implemented against Russia. The aim is precisely to solve the same problem. A situation must be achieved where this aggression, which Russia has been implementing against its neighbours for several years, would cost Moscow too much. In Russia, it would be more sensible to use the energy they are spending, unfortunately, on violating their relations with their neighbours to modernise their country. It would benefit the people of Russia first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U11	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U12	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for this important presentation. My question, too, is aimed at Ukraine. Estonia has received support from its allies and friends in difficult times, and I believe that we can be grateful for this and consider it important. If we look at Ukraine now, how do you feel, has our support for Ukraine been sufficient? What further steps can we take?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U13	Thank you for that question. For us, Ukraine has been one of the most important destination countries in Estonia's development aid programmes over several years. This year, however, the volume of several aid programmes has increased considerably. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu held a round table on 9 October, where representatives of both the Estonian government and non-governmental organisations participated. In fact, we see a great many citizens' initiatives in Estonia. This year, our country has committed around EUR 1 million to Ukraine's aid programmes. With this, Estonia is certainly one of the most active countries in Europe if we take the volume of aid per person. I have no doubt, and it has also been confirmed by our members of the government that there will be a whole series of activities in the budget to help Ukraine over the next year. Yesterday, there was a first reading of the draft laws on ratification of the Association Agreements with regard to Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. It is certainly extremely important that, for all the challenges that Ukraine is facing, particularly at present, in defending the sovereignty and independence of its country, to implement as soon as possible the reform plans and reforms set out in this very association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Estonia will certainly be able to contribute to the success of these reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U14	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U15	Thank you, manager. Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a very brief speech. I would like to move on from the question of Aivar to the issue of Ukraine. We very much hope that a positive result will be achieved in Ukraine and that Russian troops will leave it. While knowing what has been done there in the meantime, how is it armed and what media work has been done, how real do you really think Ukraine can restore its border in its former place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U16	This is certainly an extremely difficult situation for Ukraine. As regards the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia has occupied and annexed, the starting point for the Western countries and also for our policies is a very clear non-recognition policy. I believe that we are very familiar with this issue in our own history. But as far as Eastern Ukraine is concerned, it is known that it was agreed in Minsk that Russian troops would leave Ukraine and Ukraine would have to gain control of its borders. Currently, Ukraine does not control some 300 kilometres of its border in the region of Lugansk and Donetsk. Undoubtedly, this problem will remain up for years. The wounds that have been plunged into the hearts of two very close people in this war are very deep. In recent months, this war in Eastern Ukraine has claimed the lives of thousands of people. At the end of July, I visited the town of Kramatorski in the Donetsk region and saw war damage there and talked to people who had been under terrorist control for two months. Their view of everything that happened was the view of a person who had been through a very shock. And that's why the first thing they want there is, of course, peace, restoring a normal life. No one believed that such a war would be possible between Ukraine and Russia in the 21st century. For the first time since the end of World War II, war broke out in these areas again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U17	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U18	Thank you very much to my colleague for this review. I'd come back to Estonia. Estonia is very directly involved in the security of Europe. Your committee has been listening over a long period of time, but, as I understand it, it all concerned the 'external dimension'. However, I believe that the issue of internal security and the question of independent defence capabilities are equally important. This, too, should be underlined so as not to give the people the deceiving impression that we rely solely on the international dimension. Was your work focused solely on external security, and is there room for improvement to look inside the country in the key to security?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U19	Thank you, Mati, for this question. Understandably, the main focus of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is on developments at our borders, beyond our borders or more widely in the field of international relations. Our aim was to analyse the overall security picture of our immediate region, Nordic region and Baltic region in the course of these hearings. We dealt with different topics from environmental issues to, for example, the issue of soft power. I believe that issues that specifically cover defence-related issues, including internal security issues, will also be addressed in the work you are doing in the direction of the National Defence Committee. I believe that the joint meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which we have been doing over the years, have given such a very good joint role when we have discussed the implementation of the points set out in the foundations of security policy. I talked about it in my speech. Hopefully, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the next Riigikogu will focus, at the beginning of the work, on a joint analysis of the foundations of security policy with the government and, if necessary, on supplementing this document. But, as I said in my speech, the security of any country is not only guaranteed by good alliances. We cannot rely solely on the existence of an international system and law. Unfortunately, we can see that, in the current security environment, contracts that have seemed to be solid, such as the Budapest Memorandum, may at some point prove to be just paper. But it is certainly not just a paper from the Washington Treaty, and Estonia, as I have already mentioned, has proved to us by its long-term targeted action in increasing its own defence capacity that allies can count on us. And we can count on allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U20	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The security situation in Europe has changed a lot. In this light, what, in your opinion, poses the greatest security threat to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U22	This environmental change, which has taken place in our security, by us, I mean Europe, is that a number of previously agreed principles of international law no longer appear to apply or have been violated. The well - functioning system of international relations established after World War II suffers from extreme stress. Undoubtedly, it is also a threat for us if there are changes in the world that the Western countries as a whole, including our partners and allies, cannot anticipate well enough. The second risk is when a number of very serious threats have arisen at the same time, which represents a major challenge for the Western countries. As I have already mentioned, there are a great many conflicts and hotspots in the world right now. Consider, for example, what is happening in northern Iraq, Syria, as well as the same epidemic in Ebola. This may seem to be a distant concern, but it can have a major impact on national economic and security decisions. At the same time, what is undoubtedly most important to Estonia is what is happening in our immediate neighbourhood. This aggression that Russia has shown against its neighbours, above all against Ukraine, must make us wonder whether we have done everything in order to prevent any bad scenarios from starting in the future. I think that the most important thing is still our action at home, social cohesion and making a number of necessary decisions to strengthen internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U23	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U24	Thank you. Good waitress! You have already mentioned that at our hearings in the Committee on Foreign Affairs we also addressed the issue of'soft power'. How would you comment on the impact of using soft power to achieve foreign policy goals in today's conflicts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U25	Thank you. Indeed, we were enlightened quite a number of times from different angles about how the achievement of goals in today's world is achieved through the influence of information on how public opinion is being influenced internationally. What to deny is not in front of everyone, which has been happening for months precisely in the direction of Ukraine. From time to time, the Baltic States have also been targets for such major information operations. I think that all of this is inevitable under the conditions of today's social media and information age, it will be much easier to carry out all kinds of disinformation and other influence operations than under the conditions of the Cold War. But, of course, this is not just about this aspect; the context of soft force is much wider. It also includes intelligence activities and direct influence on various organisations or individuals. After all, we have also looked here in the European context at what channels are being used to influence public opinion and the political decision-making process. We have come up with a term such as a hybrid war, and it includes not only elements of specific warfare, but also precisely components of the use of soft force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U26	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U27	Thank you. In December last year, when Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, formulated the need to increase NATO's capacity and presence in Estonia as a political line, we saw a strange, completely incomprehensible reaction of very many responsible persons. It's as if they didn't understand the course of events in the near future. Today we are discussing the security situation and I am interested in your opinion on possible scenarios for the development of this conflict. If we are able to assess the likelihood of these scenarios, only then will we be able to assess whether our policy on security, defence and external relations is adequate. What likely scenarios do you see if this conflict persists? This is not only about Russia and Ukraine, but about Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U28	Indeed, the debate at the beginning of the year in Estonia reflected very well how difficult the world is and how difficult it is to anticipate events when the situation may suddenly change. I guess people are forced to change their points of view, too. Of course, the ability to anticipate and at least hypothetically review certain scenarios and to take decisions on the basis of these scenarios, either in their own country or with their partners, is extremely important. In fact, the Wales Summit was the reaction of NATO as a whole to how the security environment in Europe has changed, particularly in view of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. I think that today we can say that whatever scenario has begun to threaten Europe's security or the challenge facing us has shown, especially in recent months, that NATO's action has shown that the willingness and willingness of the allies to contribute to strengthening the principles and cooperation of collective protection is far greater than it was 12 months ago or even early this year. In my opinion, in the case of Estonia, it is undoubtedly extremely important that, by constantly developing our own defence capabilities, we are expected to be able to speed up its pace a little over the next few years, as well as by broadening our cooperation with our allies, we will achieve a degree of deterrence that would be so effective that none of the possible scenarios that we might be able to predict will actually apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U29	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U30	For our allies, subjective, but perhaps also objective sense of danger, is linked to extreme Islam rather than the aggressive behaviour of the Russian Federation in recent times. The direct and indirect impact of radical Islam was not addressed in this review and security analysis, but it certainly also affects our security situation. Would you mind commenting on what aspects this has been discussed in the first place? Has attention also been paid to the strategic risk that in the fight against radical Islam there is a willingness to compromise in other security directions and therefore the security of Estonia and the entire Baltic Sea region may be affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U31	Thank you. This is certainly a very important issue and, in one way or another, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has, during its hearings, got a pretty good overview of what has happened in recent years, how events have developed, for example, in Syria and, more broadly, in the Middle East as a whole. I believe that the Members of the Commission have a very good overview of the problems of Islamic extremism, of what is happening in the region, as well as of the possible transfers of conflicts to Europe. Looking at who is currently fighting on the side of the Islamic extremists in Syria and northern Iraq, we can see that over the years thousands of European citizens have been in their ranks, including from our neighbouring countries, Scandinavia, the Nordic countries. And we will take on the events that have taken place recently in German cities, too, with the potential risk that Islamic fighters will take action in other capitals and other cities. This could undoubtedly have a direct impact on the security situation in Europe. However, your recent reasoning on the matter is completely valid. Indeed, Europe and the Western world as a whole can face a number of very serious choices. There are a number of very difficult problems that are difficult to deal with and sometimes not as effective as they could be because of a lack of resources. Therefore, in an international context, possible compromises may certainly arise, which may cause strategic interests to be damaged somewhere. In this way, our relations with our closest neighbours, partners in the European Union and NATO, are undoubtedly very important. All these problems must be addressed together as a whole and, as far as I know, in my presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence both shed light on these issues more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U32	Good waitress, thank you! I would like the Foreign Minister Urmas Paeti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U33	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. Good guests! Our debate today is first and foremost framed by Russia's aggression in Ukraine, but, unfortunately, there are considerably more security risks in both the eastern edge of Europe and the southern neighbourhood. The prevailing trend in this respect is obviously not a good one. However, I will start with the Russian-Ukraine conflict. This conflict and the Western response to it have already had several phases. The refusal of Ukraine's previous leadership to approach Europe was remembered as a cause of great disappointment in Ukrainian society. It was accompanied by Maidan's protests. These protests led to the fall of the previous Ukrainian leadership, on which Russia started a disguised military aggression in February-March this year. The illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia in March prompted Europe and the Western world to adopt a basically new and more active attitude to the crisis. In response to the annexation of Crimea, the initial sanctions of the European Union were imposed. NATO started its activities to strengthen its eastern wing security. Cooperation with Russia in the NATO-Russian Council was interrupted. As early as March, U.S. auxiliary aircraft arrived to secure the Baltic airspace. In April, the North Atlantic Council decided to introduce immediate security reinforcement measures for the eastern wing, including the introduction of the Ämari airfield as a Baltic air security base. At the beginning of May, Danish fighters were present in Ämari, which were replaced by German aircraft at the end of August. Since spring, U.S. Army units have been permanently present in Estonia. The words of US President Barack Obama who visited Estonia on 3 September that protecting Tallinn, Riga and Vilnius is as important as defending Berlin, Paris and London confirm NATO's commitment to further strengthening collective defence. For us, the NATO Wales Summit was a success, where the alliance's reinforced presence in our region was defined as the alliance's new normal state, a new normality. In Wales, we set ourselves the goal of embracing the presence of allied forces in Estonia, constantly strengthening it, increasing the reaction speed of NATO units, enhancing NATO planning and exercises, and increasing the defence costs of the alliance. We are now working to implement all these decisions in cooperation with our allies. The sinking of a Malaysian passenger plane on 17 July, and the completely unhidden invasion of Eastern Ukraine by Russian units at the end of August urged the European Union to act more forcefully. In particular, this was reflected in the strengthening of the regime of sanctions against Russia. The European Union's sanctions are a clear signal to Russia and a statement of support to Ukraine. In order to succeed, two types of approach are needed to resolve the crisis: efforts to find a political solution and constant pressure in the form of sanctions. They must go hand in hand. We do not regard the premature relaxation of the European Union's sanction regime until tangible results have been achieved, in particular the withdrawal of Russian units and the restored control of Ukraine's borders and territory. In seeking a political solution in Ukraine, it is absolutely necessary to rule out the emergence of a new frozen conflict in Eastern Ukraine. The fragile truce of 5 September must be brought to an end. Unfortunately, over 300 people have already died during the ceasefire. We consider it important that the OSCE mission in Ukraine is fully manned and that it is able to fulfil its mandate fully, including by monitoring the ceasefire and the Ukraine-Russian border. We also support the European Union civilian mission in Ukraine, whose activities have been attended by two Estonian experts since October. The UN Security Council has also repeatedly discussed the situation in Ukraine. Ukraine will face a number of difficult issues in the near future. In addition to the extremely serious security crisis and the economic difficult winter period ahead, including the energy shortage, the Ukrainians must find the strength to reform, organise parliamentary elections, strengthen democracy and the rule of law and fight corruption. Of course, we must not forget the illegal annexation of Crimea. The occupying power is persecuting minorities, including the Crimean Tatars. This serious violation of international law must, among other things, be answered in the form of an unambiguous non-recognition policy of the European Union. At the same time, it is clear that the solution to the crisis also depends to a large extent on what solutions the Ukrainian leadership can find. President Poroshenko's room for choice is unfortunately limited due to pressure from Russia; he must choose between several bad choices. Estonia will continue to provide active assistance to Ukraine. By the end of the year, the volume of development and humanitarian aid allocations will amount to nearly EUR 1 million. There have been brought to Estonia for rehabilitation in Kiev's street riots as well as the victims of the war in Eastern Ukraine. Food aid is also delivered from Estonia to Ukraine. We will also continue with previous cooperation, including the implementation of e-state development projects. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will now draw some conclusions from the crisis in Ukraine, bearing in mind the current security policy. Firstly, the events of this year have helped to harmonise the understanding of Russia by the transatlantic community. The NATO Wales Summit Communiqué begins with the recognition that Russia's aggressive actions against Ukraine have presented a fundamental challenge to our vision of a Europe that is united and free and where peace prevails. A year ago, such a collective message would have been almost unthinkable. Russia has so far been sought to be a partner, but unfortunately these efforts have not been successful. If the use of military force against the neighbour has been taken as a means of resolving differences, then obviously we are in a new situation. Today, it can be said that the discussions in both NATO and the European Union have reached the point that the security policy positions of Estonia and of the countries that share with us have become part of the mainstream of European security policy thinking. This is an important development. The ongoing European security debate is asked, particularly in the light of the upcoming OSCE Foreign Ministers' Basel meeting, whether the current crisis has led to the collapse of Europe's current security architecture. After all, for more than 20 years in Europe, we have created an interoperable security-based system with principles of non-use and threat of force, respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity, the integrity of borders, the freedom of states to freely choose alliances and allies, and the full protection of human rights. These principles are already contained in the UN Charter, but they are also very important in the basic documents of European security, in particular the CSCE Helsinki Final Act and the CSCE Paris Charter, as well as in the basic act on NATO-Russian relations. Indeed, Russia has violated these principles by attacking Ukraine. However, I think that such a violation of the principles by one country does not mean the collapse of Europe's current security architecture. Failure by one party to respect the agreed principles does not mean that the principles have become null and void. In a paradoxical way, the crisis has made Europe more united and therefore stronger. The European Union's united statements, NATO's permanent presence in our region, and even the revival of the OSCE as an organisation speak precisely that language. Europe is working for its values, peace and security, and hopefully it will also deliver results. Despite the fact that the basic principles of the European security architecture remain valid, the security environment has changed. Power has been used to change national borders, and the predictability of international relations has decreased considerably. All of this will be taken into account in the implementation of the NATO preparedness action plan adopted at the Wales Summit. Our bilateral and multilateral alliances give us the opportunity to make our choices free of external pressure. Estonia's open economic environment, Estonia's image as an innovative state, remains attractive to foreign investors. Estonia's membership of the European Union and NATO, Estonia's integration with Europe and the rest of the world has given us confidence in the future. Although the countries of our region have had to experience the direct effect of the unpleasant steps of Russia in recent months, whether it be repeated air border violations in Finland and Sweden, opening more than 20 years old legal cases against Lithuanian citizens who refused to enter the Soviet army, or robbing the Eston Suitcase from the territory of Estonia and its detention in Russia, we have taken significant steps together with our allies to ensure our security. As President Obama said: 'You lost your independence. With NATO's help, you will never lose it again. ' Estonia's security is secured. A separate question is Europe's own image. We have so far become accustomed to thinking of the European Union as a non-controversial soft force. European integration and the accompanying reforms have been aimed at improving the lives of people and improving the competitiveness of national economies. Neither in the past nor in the recent enlargement circles of the European Union, let alone in association, has Europe encountered any external opposition. Who could have something against Europe's values, its well-being? However, the conflict that has erupted has clearly shown that the soft power of Europe has collided with Russian weapons in Eastern Ukraine. This is a completely new situation for Europe. In the forthcoming European Union meetings, we need a very serious and thorough debate on how to proceed in this situation. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I mentioned that Europe wants to defend its values. These include the sanctity of human life, individual freedoms, including freedom of expression and conscience, full protection of human rights, democracy, adherence to agreements. There are forces in our neighbourhood, both east and south, who question such values. The most important of the individual's freedoms are collective convictions, traditional beliefs from the full protection of human rights. Freedom of expression, including freedom on the Internet, is being completely restricted and free media replaced by propaganda. As regards the protection of private property, it is considered essential that the interests of the State's management be carried out at all costs. One might ask whether we are entering a new phase of ideological confrontation, where on one side of the dialect there are democratic values on which our present prosperity is based and on the other side such a grand state civil religion that puts the interests of tradition and power first. It's important that we're on the right side of this thoughtline. In the southern part of Europe, the southern neighbourhood of Europe is strengthening the movement that most directly opposes democratic values and uses the most brutal and inhumane methods to convey its message. I am thinking of the terrorist movement of the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, or ISIL, in short. This movement has taken violence as its flag letter, killing prisoners and civilians, using indiscriminate terror against those who do not think the same way with them. This must be countered decisively. Estonia is part of the international anti-ISIL coalition. We have decided to support the forces fighting ISIL with ammunition. However, a lasting solution in Iraq will certainly not only come through military action. It is important to get the Shiites, the Sunni and the Kurds involved in the political process. In order to alleviate the serious humanitarian situation throughout the region, we have provided a total of EUR 1.4 million in recent years. I don't think this conflict is far from us. Donetsk is on a bird flight halfway from Tallinn to Baghdad. But more important than geographic distances are the speed of extreme thinking and the growing ability of individual terrorists to commit crimes. It is known that hundreds, if not thousands, of people have joined ISIL in Europe, including our neighbouring countries. It is clear that radicalisation is not directly dependent on the level of well-being. This does not necessarily take place in poor suburbs in the Middle East; it is also possible in European countries with a high standard of living. In an open Europe with internal borders, we need to pay double attention to avoid such risks in the bud, while preserving all their rights and freedoms for Europeans. Estonia is reviewing its laws to prevent foreign fighters from moving to the Middle East and financing and supplying terrorists. Developments to the south of Europe leave no doubt that the security risks that started there will increase. The Arab Spring, which also brought about positive changes, has left a serious legacy in the form of internal conflict in several countries of the Southern Neighbourhood, in particular Libya and Syria. The waves of refugees hit southern Europe show no signs of decline. While the conflict in Europe is a country with an ageing and declining population, demographic trends in the Middle East and Africa are reversed. According to the UN, at the current rate of growth, the population of Africa could more than double by 2050. This, however, means fighting for resources, including water, the emergence of new mega-cities in Africa and growing problems in Europe's southern neighbourhood. We consider it necessary to strengthen the European Union's border agency, Frontex, and to provide full assistance to those countries that are at the forefront of the refugee problem. At the same time, it is critical for Europe to be able to influence Africa's countries to make the changes that are necessary to prevent potential difficulties. Estonia has participated in military operations in Mali and the Central African Republic this year. It is clear that, after the completion of the Afghan operation, the biggest global problems are linked to Africa, which may also mean the need for further involvement of our country's capabilities there as well. In West Africa, the Ebola virus is located in the main outbreak. The number of victims of infection is increasing every day, and there are already more than 4,000 dead. If the spread of the virus cannot be stopped and continues at its current rate, the number of people affected may rise by more than 1.5 million by the turn of the year. The first cases of infection have already been reported in Europe and the United States. This year Estonia has supported the prevention of the spread of the Ebola virus with a total of EUR 100000, we have contributed to the relevant UN fund and the World Health Organisation. In Monrovia, Liberia, an Estonian doctor also worked there on the mission of the United Nations crisis and disaster coordination and assessment team. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In conclusion, I would like to say that our current international action to improve Estonia's security status has been effective. In changed circumstances, it is also necessary to review the underlying documents of our foreign and security policy. In this context, I am thinking first and foremost of the need to renew both the defence strategy and the document on the basis of the security policy that has been in force since 2010. A new defence strategy will be completed this year and the foundations of the renewed security policy can probably be discussed by the new Riigikogu. We must act constantly in the interests of our security. This means active foreign policy, action in international organisations, strong transatlantic alliances, our own contribution to international missions and defence spending at home, constantly developing relations with neighbours, and in particular the protection and promotion of a European value system through our actions. If we fulfil our international obligations, if it is good to live in Estonia, then Estonia will be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U34	I do not know where you read from my speech this complete satisfaction with the situation at the border. The Police and Border Guard Board, of course, belongs to the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but the government has repeatedly discussed the situation at the border and decided to take steps to ensure that the Estonian south-eastern border, too, is properly equipped with security equipment and that manned guarding of the border is also better. This is, of course, an area where there is no reason for great satisfaction and there is an urgent need to do things that have not been done for various reasons so far, whether it be for other budgetary priorities or for the understanding that, in the absence of a border agreement, it is as if this should not be addressed. However, the current situation is certainly far from being satisfied; this must undoubtedly be done. At the same time, border surveillance is a task where the prevention of illegal border crossings, the fight against smuggling and trafficking in human beings are essential. These tasks are much different from the military defence of the country and must be taken as such. In the case of the military defence of the state, it is, of course, about protecting the entire territory of Estonia, not just about protecting the border line. These issues do not contradict, they certainly complement each other to a large extent, but at the same time border surveillance and military defence are far from identical issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U35	Mr Minister, thank you for your presentation. I'm talking not only to you right now, but to both of you, i.e. you and the junior sergeant of the FSB, who right now, with the headphones on his head, is listening to this conversation between us. The problem, in my opinion, is that today's war no longer looks like war. I mean, countries no longer fight, but warring citizens' NGOs, NGOs, democratic associations, the Taliban, etc., who are anti-government or non-governmental social organisations fighting for citizens' interests. This raises the question of whether Article 5 of the NATO Treaty also takes into account that the classic war against the state simply no longer exists. And to think of the fact that 30% of Moscow's people are Muslim, I ask this question: is there any hope of getting a deal with the Russians at least by confronting the Islamic threat? Or there won't be anything...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U36	Minister, thank you. You have a lot of questions, too. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U37	Good questioner, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U38	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U39	The issue of energy security that you have mentioned is very clearly part of the whole European security picture. Because of the lack of time, I couldn't tell you in my introductory speech. It is clear that the existence of physical connections within Europe will significantly increase Europe's security in the most direct sense of the word, and so will the new associations outside Europe. The whole picture inside the European Union has certainly improved year after year. Let us recall the state of the so-called common European energy policy a few years ago and where it is today. The comprehension has clearly changed. This also applies to a number of other security-related areas where changes have brought the European Union countries closer together in their attitudes. However, the reasons for these differences of opinion are in themselves very practical and humane. Countries are in different situations, even in terms of the same energy supply, due to their history. There are countries that are still heavily dependent on Russia in their energy supply, and there are countries where this is not a problem at all, which also means that this threshold of pain is in a different place, and at least at the beginning, Ukraine's events were definitely responded to depending on its geographical location and history. This has been exactly the same in the case of conflicts that have erupted in Europe's southern neighbourhood. I'm sure the area wants to be further developed. The situation isn't perfect, but the picture is obviously better. But whenever we complain to someone that they do not understand the impact and complexity of the Russian-Ukraine conflict as deeply, we could look in the mirror and ask ourselves how well we understand the southern European countries that are deeply concerned about the situation in Libya and its negative security effects from behind the Mediterranean. We certainly also have room for improvement in deepening and broadening our understanding when it comes to other conflicts around Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U40	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The main and effective measure, which is in the arsenal of the European Union in order to curb Russia's aggressive behaviour, is sanctions. In particular, financial sanctions have been effective, have had a devastating impact on the banking and energy sectors and on the Russian economy as a whole. But the issue with sanctions is that they should be implemented for at least two or three years. At the same time, I read in the news that the head of the European Union's Moscow Mission in Ušacka has told Interfax that sanctions will be reviewed at the end of this month. What is the situation with regard to sanctions? Does the European Union have the will, the consensus and the strength to continue them, or is there any setbacks to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U42	As I said in my introduction, it is clear to us that sanctions have been imposed for very specific reasons. They have been gradually expanded and deepened in recent months because the situation has got worse. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Each sanction decision has had its own particular reason. It is very clear logic that, in order to be able to reduce or eliminate sanctions altogether, these reasons must go away. The main two major reasons are the very presence of Russian troops in Ukraine, which must end, and secondly, Ukraine must have the opportunity to control the border of its country. After all, much of the trouble has been caused by the fact that Ukraine has not had the opportunity to fully control its national borders, which means that anyone has gone over it. Now, what is the future development of sanctions? In general, all the sanctions imposed by the European Union are time-bound. This means that if they are to continue, a new decision must be taken on their introduction for a new period. There is a theoretical possibility that, if there is no consensus to continue them, certain sanctions may automatically end due to the arrival of this date. Therefore, it is not accurate to say that someone is discussing the termination of sanctions as such, but that a purely legal and technical solution is simply reached for the different sanctions with different deadlines, and in order to be able to continue to do so, a new decision must be made that they will be introduced or implemented again. This has also been the case with all kinds of other sanctions against other countries in previous times. All sanctions are of a fixed-term nature, which means that a new decision must be taken within a certain period of time. These sanctions against Russia, due to the events in Ukraine, are exactly the same. And the first deadlines are coming up pretty soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U43	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister for Foreign Affairs, first of all, thank you for your presentation. My question is a little different. Are there any of your colleagues in the European Union who, in an informal atmosphere, have considered the annexation of Crimea by Russia to be a mere release?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U45	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U46	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister, I would also like to thank myself for this good brief presentation. Today we focus mainly on the security situation in Europe, and it is certainly an important part of the bilateral relations that our diplomats in other countries and diplomats from other countries have with us. What are the trends in the renewed security situation in Europe in the work of embassies and in bilateral relations at all? I note here the closure of the Hungarian embassy in Estonia and also our respective steps. What are the trends in bilateral relations with other European countries in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U48	It is clear that in the security environment in which we are now in, it is essential that we have all-embracing relations with our partners, both in NATO and in the European Union, and that the network of embassies will also contribute to this role. At the same time, if you look at the overall picture in Europe, there is probably no loss of desire to change or cut the network of embassies, including within Europe, mainly due to budgetary constraints and difficulties. Estonia's current interest is that the number of embassies in Tallinn will not decrease. We want our close relations with those partners who have opened their embassy in Tallinn over time to continue and to ensure that the number of embassies does not decrease, no matter what considerations may be involved. I still believe that, in any case, securing security and working together for it are the basis of everything. When there is great uncertainty in the security environment, it is relatively impossible to expect long-term economic relations to flourish.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U49	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U50	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, thank you, Minister, for this speech. It is likely that our current priority is the development of military capabilities. This has been the case for years in the European Union. The formation and military planning of the Defence Agency may be highlighted, as well as the participation of different countries in missions, whether under the auspices of the European Union, the UN or NATO. As we know, at the Helsinki European Council 15 years ago, the decision to establish a rapid reaction force was taken. What is the state of these forces now, and do you see any problem with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U51	In fact, a rapid reaction force has already been set up in the form of the European Union's battle groups. Estonia has also contributed to it, namely the Nordic Battle Group. However, it is known that they have not yet been used for the purpose for which these forces were created. There are political reasons for this, but there is also a question of limited resources. In fact, the European Union has launched missions on, for example, the African continent, including the Central African Republic, from which our Defence Forces recently returned. This could have come under the original idea of European battle groups, but the European Union was unable, for political reasons, to activate these battle groups and to use them on this mission. This is a topic that has been very keenly pointed out by Sweden, which will be the leader of the Nordic Battle Group in the next period. NATO, however, has been developing its rapid response capability for over ten years. It will certainly come to mind the abbreviation NRF just like the NATO Response Force, or the NATO Rapid Response Force. There, too, Estonia has contributed, and initially these units were seen as the rapid response forces. In reality, it became, as has already been said, an effective tool for transforming or modernising the forces. So, yes, the use of this contingent has not been exactly what was originally imagined. It hasn't been ready to use these forces in this way, let's say so. At the NATO Summit in Wales, the decision was taken to establish a unit called Very High Readness Joint Task Force, or a target unit of a very high degree of readiness, or uniting all types of troops. It is certainly important now that such an entity is set up and that it is also able to act if necessary. The best way to ensure this is to keep the unit continuously posted for various exercises in NATO Member States, so that, if necessary, politically difficult decision-making is not forthcoming. In NATO's case, this is a collective decision-making process, where some inertia is written in. Certainly, in this very high level of preparedness for a common rapid response unit, all previous experience needs to be taken into account and this could also consist in the continuous use of it in joint exercises that practice the implementation of realistic collective protection scenarios. In that case, we can be sure that the entity is indeed available if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U52	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U53	Thank you, manager. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In your speech, you also briefly touched on internal security and the situation at the border, with which you seem satisfied and with which I am far from satisfied. This is not a good situation if the threat of external security continues to increase, but we have a decreasing number of police officers. And we don't really have a border. That's what you have to admit. In fact, the Estonian state must protect its eastern border, which is also the eastern border of the European Union and NATO. Do we carry out these tasks with full responsibility and have you not received a signal from NATO that the situation at the border should be controlled?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U54	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Only a few years ago, the previous Minister of Defence, Reinsalu, announced a broad-based national defence plan with his own pathos, and this was an important part of the Defence League. It's been years. How do you think the Defence League is fulfilling its role and what could be further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U56	Surely the remaining five minutes will not be enough to talk about the full role of the Defence League. The Defence League has a major and important role to play both in protecting the Estonian state and in maintaining and growing the will for defence. And he has many other roles. The Defence League also has a rather unique legal position in Estonia. He's a public organization, he has his own assets, he has the task of creating a certain military capability, he has a military task in the form of defense. Certainly, however, there is a need for further legal regulation in this area, and I am sure that this hall will soon begin to discuss the draft law on this regulation. Legal regulation is needed as the actual operation and management of the Defence League in a war situation, when the military capabilities of the Union must definitely go under the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces. At the same time, the Defence League must continue to function as a public organisation in some respects. This means, in the case of certain leaders of the Defence League, how to say, action under two hats, which is a very big challenge, but not impossible. If NATO generals are able to wear the hat of the Commander-in-Chief of the European Forces and the Commander-in-Chief of the European Forces in the United States at the same time, then surely the Commanders of the Defence League will also be able to continue to act as chiefs of the Defence League's chess at the same time as performing some kind of wartime function. It's a complicated question. The Defence League is an extremely important organisation whose operation, especially during wartime, requires further legal regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U57	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am asking for your position on people with grey passports, who are quite numerous in our country. They cannot prove their will to protect the Estonian state. Do you think this should be dealt with as a matter of urgency? Could it be useful?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U59	If you respond very briefly, I think that the efforts of the Estonian state should be aimed at reducing the number of persons with undefined citizenship and that this would decrease so that the majority of people with grey passports would become citizens of the Estonian state rather than take the passport and citizenship of another country. Participation in national defence is certainly one of the obligations of loyalty arising from nationality. So the steps taken by the Estonian state should be aimed at non-citizens, i.e. the owners of the grey passport, becoming the majority of Estonian citizens and, of course, taking part in the defence of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U60	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U61	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. How great do you consider the risk of right-wing extremism in Ukraine and what should be the position of the Estonian state in this regard? After all, the world's television channels showed the hideous images of what happened in front of the building, even the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U62	I think that if very many respondents to polls in Estonia too, defining their position on the political scale, say that the right-left distribution is a bit conditional and not always relevant in today's world, then extremism is extremism. Extreme views are certainly a threat to security and stability wherever they find manifestation. The extremism does not lead any country towards stability. We have also seen ourselves, in the case of forces that call themselves the extreme right, that this spectrum is coming together somewhere and, in fact, in many ways, very opposing forces find a common part precisely on the surface of extremism. This is an international phenomenon and represents a threat to many European countries, and not only to European countries, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U63	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I will first pass on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This request is that the political groups first appear in the negotiations. Mr. Mihkelson, was I wrong about something? Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Enn Eesmaa, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U64	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests both in this hall and behind the screens! In recent months, foreign policy, especially security, has changed most and unfortunately towards the worst in Europe and the world. In addition to the classic tensions in the Middle East, Iraq, Syria, Iran and Libya, there will be a victim-rich conflict of arms in our immediate neighbourhood in Ukraine, which, as in fear of more evil and damage, is not recommended in many countries to be called war. This has created the need for a coherent and coordinated approach between allies, but at the same time a constructive foreign policy to the last opportunity. The Islamic declarations and gruesome acts of the extremist group, which are unashamedly shown to the world on video recordings, represent an ever increasing threat to world peace. Every effort must be made to ensure that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine does not deepen, but ends. Pending this last opportunity, diplomatic solutions must be sought. The desire to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, together with all the resulting elements, should continue to be emphasised. We consider it necessary to assist Ukraine in implementing the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine and we support the extension of the regulation on autonomous trade preferences. Yesterday, in this very Chamber, we dealt with the draft law on ratification of the Ukrainian Association Agreement. It has now been ratified by six countries, including our neighbour Latvia. The Association Agreement aims to accelerate the deepening of the political and economic relations between Ukraine and the European Union and the gradual increase in Ukraine's access to the European Union's internal market. The alignment of Ukrainian law with the acquis of the European Union is an essential element of the Association Agreement. In addition, this agreement is the basis for Ukraine's reform agenda to contribute to the principles of the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the free market economy. I hope that the result of the parliamentary elections in Ukraine on 26 October will create a favourable ground for this, which is likely to significantly change the composition of the Vermadrada. The reform agenda is directly linked to the European Union's assistance to Ukraine and the Association Agreement allows Ukraine's partners to better target their assistance. Estonia must continue to provide material support to Ukraine, in particular for reforms. All-round assistance from Georgia and Moldova must also be considered necessary. Ratification of the Association Agreements between the European Union and these countries is currently on the agenda. In the case of Georgia, we stress the deepening of political and economic relations and the increasing access of this country to the European Union's internal market. The creation of a free trade area must contribute to this. The agreement provides Georgia with a framework for modernising its trade relations and economic development, as well as for abolishing customs tariffs. The movement of services is significantly liberalised and the public procurement market is opened. Georgia needs to bring legislation in several trade-related areas into line with European Union standards. The Association Agreement is also of vital importance to Moldova, where parliamentary elections of major importance for the country's near future will take place at the end of November. In the current situation, the conclusion and ratification of border agreements between Estonia and Russia must be supported even more actively, which would create a prerequisite for the final identification and consolidation of border areas. Estonia must continue to act actively at all levels of the UN, the importance and significance of the world organisation should not be reduced but increased in the present world. The activation of the Middle East peace process, which is vital for European security, requires a UN Security Council resolution on this issue, which would help to end the armed conflict and increase the prospects for a truce. Estonia must continue to cooperate usefully with neighbouring countries both at the bottom and at the Baltic level, with all the Baltic countries. A more active foreign policy should be pursued with Asian countries where our representation and visibility is minimal. Even the significance and importance of the European Union in these countries is modest and the trend is rather declining. Estonia must certainly make an appropriate contribution to ending the aggression of the Islamic State. The international community must not be indifferent to the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict in the countries at the heart of the war. The participation of Estonia in peacekeeping missions at the level of the UN, the European Union and NATO must be supported and resources must be found for them that do not go too far. Europe's security will certainly be facilitated by a more constructive and active stance in the TTIP negotiations between the European Union and the US. It is important for Estonia to harmonise standards, to simplify the application for certificates and licences, and to mutual recognition of qualifications, which would increase the interest of Estonian companies in exporting. Let us not forget that the nations never returned to lasting peace in Europe precisely by taking account of the economic and trade interests of the countries. The experience of the past should not only be taken into account, but must also be learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your speech and your review. I think that every country that has joined the European Union has certainly taken on these principles, which you have spoken about, for its day-to-day performance. There are certainly also agreements that have been concluded within the European Union to be implemented. But from time to time, we experience certain inconsistencies and different approaches to problems, such as climate or environmental issues, as well as energy security and budgetary issues. There have also been inconsistencies in defence issues in the European Union. Not all countries comply with agreements. Can you tell us what these basic reasons are that we cannot stand in the same way in Europe in these areas, and how can this be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U66	I'd split the answer in two. If we look at the Putin regime's policy towards its neighbours, I do not think they have any difficulty finding an excuse to take aggressive action against their neighbours. From that point of view, any steps that we could take in our own country would not significantly change our assessment of the external threat. In the event of aggression against Ukraine, the Putin regime was very successful in mobilising Russian public opinion, creating a virtual reality suitable for power in a media image designed for an internal auditorium. In this sense, our relevant steps would certainly not reduce the real risk. At the same time, of course, it is important to deal very seriously with maintaining the loyalty of all people living in Estonia to the Estonian state. This will certainly reduce opportunities for domestic tensions. This is an extremely important issue that needs to be dealt with constantly, despite the fact that a potential foreign aidor will always find an excuse to take his aggressive steps, should he have the opportunity to do so or the will to do so, regardless of what we are doing here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! When, at the end of the last century and at the beginning of this, it seemed that the imperialist policies of the countries were more or less coming to an end as they entered the path of democracy, now it seems that we are lost. There is a country that is trying to apply behavioral patterns from the past century in this century, and it has begun to do so. Does this mean that it is essentially a failure of democracy in this country, and we must say that this country cannot be taken rationally at all? What must democratic countries do?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U68	First of all, I don't think our listener's rank is as low as you suggested. But to come more seriously to the content of the question, NATO in itself has quite a long experience in fighting organisations and associations that are not national. I am thinking, above all, of the many years of the Afghan mission and the fight against the Taliban and other extremist groups there. So there is such an experience in itself. Indeed, a new phenomenon is what we have seen this year in the first place in Crimea, and later in the case of Eastern Ukraine. This is a 'hybrid war', where one party is still a very clearly one country which, however, does not declare it and tries to hide it by, for example, using different military clothing and non-state distinguishing marks. This situation is new and it is also clearly recognised in NATO. Analysis of the state of affairs and follow-up will be carried out. As regards cooperation in the fight against extremism, including Islamic extremism, as we know, this problem also concerns Russia. With regard to ISIL's activities, including the recruitment of foreign fighters, a month ago the UN Security Council was able to unanimously adopt a resolution on this very important issue for a long time. For a very, very long time, the UN Security Council has been unable to adopt any resolution on major issues of world security, as it has been blocked by one or more permanent members of the UN Security Council, mainly one. Here we are recalling Syria's topic, we are recalling the same Ukraine and some other issues. This, too, is a sign that the activities of Islamic extremists in Iraq and Syria are mostly treated in a united manner. However, if there is an effective follow-up, there is also a need for very practical cooperation between all parties involved. At the same time, because of the events in Ukraine, confidence has become a strong bang, but it seems to me that certain cooperation is in the hands of the Western countries and Russia in fighting Islamic extremism.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U69	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I guess the logic of this aggression is that if it isn't stopped in one place, then in the next place, it's going to be a lot more complicated. This has been Russia's development. Perhaps it cannot be ruled out that he is able to open two fronts at a time. You did not mention Moldova and Georgia very much in your presentation, although yesterday these issues were discussed here in the form of association agreements. What is your threat to the sovereignty of these countries now? After all, we have once again been able to read about Abkhazia's intentionful agreement with Russia, against which Tbilisi has already protested in a sharp tone. The West has begun to understand Russia's identity better. What can we do to protect these countries, and what is your risk assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U71	The risk assessment certainly cannot be very nice for these countries either, given that there are conflict zones on the territory of both countries. In Moldova, it is Transnistria, where there are soldiers from another country, Russia, and on Georgian territory it is Abkhazia and South Ossetia, where the situation is basically very similar. This means that the risk of a conflict being heated is already evident from this fact alone. Russia, of course, also does not like the movement of these countries towards the European Union, the West. Parliamentary elections are imminent in Moldova. Certainly, the outcome of the parliamentary elections will be very important in shaping further developments. When we recall Russia-Ukraine's relations and the course of events there, Russia first tried to persuade Ukraine to give up moving towards the European Union, above all, with political and economic leverage. The military influence came in when it was seen that these elements were not working enough. Of course, every effort must also be made in the European Union to ensure that the same scenario is not repeated in Moldova or Georgia. This requires consensus, which requires very principled behaviour towards Ukraine, but also in helping both Moldova and Georgia and expressing their fundamental clear political attitudes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U72	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U73	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Like our allies in our security policy, our allies in foreign policy are our strongest foreign policy force in the European Union. Against this background, I looked at the resources allocated to common security, security and foreign policy. Unfortunately, they are very modest: for a global European area, the budget for this year is only EUR 8.3 billion, of which only 3.7%, or EUR 300000, will be available for a common security and foreign policy. In the long-term financial plan, only 6% of the global Europe is involved. Could it be possible that this year's increased security challenges will lead to a reversal of the allocation of resources within the European Union in order to meet these challenges?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U74	That would certainly make sense and be an adequate response to what is happening in Europe and around Europe. The financial perspective, which is currently in force, was planned when these recent acute events were not yet present. I certainly consider it important that developments concerning European security should also be seen in the face of the European Union's budget and budget strategy. Another important organisation, NATO, also called on all Member States to increase defence spending during the last summit to reach 2% of gross domestic product again. In NATO, too, this is a clear consequence of the events of the last few months. I do not see that the European Union can, or could, overlook new problems in financial terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U75	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U76	Thank you. Both European countries and NATO Member States have supported Ukraine both politically and in many other ways during this crisis. It is true that, with regard to so-called fatal military assistance, there has been a great deal of reservation. There are certainly also purely protective equipment which does not have a lethal character, and that has also been given to Ukraine. Estonia has decided to support Ukraine by offering treatment opportunities to civilians and defence forces who have been wounded. Estonia has decided to participate in Ukraine's trust funds with its contribution. As a small country, we certainly need to consider what assistance we can provide, what our ability is to make this aid available to a country in the best possible way, so that they can make the most of it. If there are additional opportunities to support Ukraine in this crisis, Estonia cannot stand by but must take part in this effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U77	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your presentation, Minister. The more coherent our people are, the stronger our country will be, especially in an emergency. The Ukrainians have admitted that one thing they did not do was national integration. Today we are talking about the security situation in Europe, but we would not do that if we did not appreciate Estonia's position in this security environment. What role do you think our domestic integration plays in ensuring Estonia's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U79	As I said in my speech, this is a somewhat new situation for Europe. All of what the European Union represents, all of these values, which have been expanded in recent times, because everyone wants to live a more prosperous and freer life, so far, by promoting it, has not come into contact with anything serious. Now it's happened. All this conflict that we see in Ukraine, all this bloodshed, is linked to Ukraine's desire to become as close as possible to the countries of the European Union. This is clearly a new situation and needs to be adequately addressed. In the long run, however, the dream of a democratic Russia must not, of course, be buried; this must also be borne in mind. It is probably our common understanding that it would still be nice if the Russians in Russia could live in a free and democratic society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U80	Minister, thank you. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of Defence Minister Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U81	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Let me express my condolences to the Riigikogu on the departure of my colleague, Mr Tarmo Leinatamme, before going to the subject of the report. I had the opportunity to work on the same committee as Tarmo as the Chairman of the National Defence Commission, and I therefore know that, in addition to his many other talents and interests, he was also passionate about defence. But now to today's topic: the security situation in Europe and its conclusions for Estonia. As the previous speakers have pointed out, we are living in a very difficult and dynamic time. Previously on "Russia's aggression against Ukraine" has been discussed at length. I would just add so much that if we look at this aggression and put it in the context of the events that we have seen since 2008 and Russia's campaign against Georgia, we will see a clearly drawn pattern, a trend. We can say with certainty that those who see what is happening in Crimea or Eastern Ukraine as exceptional isolated cases are wrong and very seriously wrong. The most important conclusions that we can already draw from Russia's aggression against Ukraine and annexation of Crimea are as follows in the military defence plan. Firstly, the use of military force to change borders in Europe remains a topical issue. Secondly, the period of pre-warning for conflicts, including military conflicts, has become very short, often essentially non-existent. And third, which is just as important, the nature of the conflicts has changed. The previous speakers also spoke of a hybrid war. This means a conflict in which direct military exposure, immediate military conflict is only one part of the iceberg's surface, and often as important or more important is political, economic and psychological pressure, as well as information and cyber war. We know that the Putin regime has used all these tools against Ukraine, and we know that the important part of Putin's calculation is the belief that time is in certain cases on his side that when making decisions alone, he can do so quickly. And he probably believes that if he is able to occupy the territory quickly enough and create a new reality on earth, he will be able to preserve this changed reality for a long time, create a frozen conflict and direct the efforts of the international community to deescalation of tensions and not reverse the changed reality. The most important lessons for us and our allies are therefore, firstly, that we need to significantly improve our situational awareness, our ability to see it and understand what is happening in real time beyond our borders, including Russia. We also need to be able to make political decisions faster, including the political decisions we make in collective decision-making formats. Thirdly, we need to significantly improve our ability to respond to emerging crises, which, as has been said, can be triggered without prior warning. We must also raise our overall level of preparedness by talking about our defence forces. Those days have passed immediately after the end of the Cold War, when any imaginary military conflict in Europe or near it enabled us to improve our level of preparedness by rising to the 'crisis horizon' over months or years. It is certainly important to have a proactive presence in NATO's border countries, both in the eastern and southern wings of NATO, in the form of a constant deterrent, as well as in the form of pre-location of units and equipment. Finally, adequate and previously trained protection plans are certainly important. In political terms, we will certainly be able to see parallels with what took place on our continent in the 1930s in the current attempts to force Europe to change borders. This parallel is certainly sufficiently dissuasive to force us democratic countries to take all necessary preventive measures collectively. When we are talking about relations with Russia during and perhaps after the aggression in Ukraine, we must be sure that we cannot return to the 'traditional partnership' and sacrifice our values on the altar of trade and energy interests, as long as peace is not sustainable and so-called separatists imported into Ukraine from the Russian armed forces and their supported fields have not left. We know that three quarters of NATO's allies are also members of the European Union, and it is actually not a secret to us that one part of Russia's policy is to try to divide the coalition that is currently standing in the defence of international standards of conduct. But as long as the gross violation of the generally accepted norms of international relations continues and the injustice that has been created is unreparable, we must firmly resist attempts to return to normal relations with Russia. Speaking of NATO, it is certainly positive that our defence alliance is solid, although perhaps not quickly enough for us to return to our core task, or collective defence, not only in words but also in deeds. Yes, these developments are not always as rapid as we may wish for a border country here, but at the same time we have no reason to doubt that NATO is working, that Article 5 of the Washington Treaty takes all the allies as seriously as 65, 45 or 25 years ago, and that we will be helped if necessary. It is true that the allies have some room for improvement, whether in the overall development of the European rapid response capability or in terms of the level of defence costs, but I recall that the situation was far from ideal in the 1980s. The same concerns and problems were also on the agenda then, and there were lonely, but vocal, thinkers who considered collective protection to be just a paper tiger. However, history showed that the essence of NATO's collective defence, the strong deterrent, worked then, and I am sure it will work now. I have listed these positive decisions for us, which were taken at the NATO Summit in Wales, in this very chair a few weeks ago. I am not going to line them up again, but once again I will say that the summit's decisions were remarkably our face and our voice was at the summit and are generally strong and heard in the alliance. It is, of course, up to us to ensure that all these decisions are actually and quickly implemented. Good listeners! Estonia has a credible image of a reliable, action-oriented and forward-looking ally. We do what we say and promise. We're doing our homework so that there's a moral justification for asking for something back in case there's a need. The Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, as well as all the other government agencies, make a daily contribution to keep it that way. NATO's new normal state, framed by elevated preparedness and a permanent military presence on the eastern and southern wing of the alliance, is precisely this: a new normal state. This means that our hosted allies will most likely be here for years. This means, among other things, new challenges for us to offer our allies training opportunities and to create the necessary infrastructure. This certainly means frequent aircraft noise in the area of Ämari, i.e. allied soldiers also in our street pictures in various places in Estonia. This means that the allies will start to plant equipment in our region that can be used in common exercises on a regular basis, and that, of course, means updating the defence plans and exercising them on our territory as well. In addition, the new normal state defines a change of meaning in the capitals of the allies, as as long as NATO's immediate neighbouring country grabs territories from neighbouring countries and practices attacks on its neighbours, the Alliance does not have the luxury of dealing only with geographically remote problems. But the emphasis is on the word 'only', because of course we also have to deal with our allies' concerns in addition to our burning problems, including the crises that take place in geographically distant parts of us. In the security circles, the zone of instability around NATO's part of Europe has been discussed for a long time. This zone extends from Eastern Ukraine to North Africa. I would like to stress here that collective protection cannot necessarily be a special right of the Baltic States alone. Security concerns, sometimes significantly different from ours, exist in the United States and Turkey as well as in Spain and Norway. We need to understand that for some of our allies, Islamic extremism or, for example, the possible militarisation of the Arctic are even more immediate security threats than the current situation in and around Ukraine. Nevertheless, our allies understand our concerns, are united with us and do what needs to be done to strengthen our security. We must also be ready to do what needs to be done to make our allies feel secure. The group, which uses hideous methods in Syria and Iraq and proclaims extreme ideology, which calls itself an Islamic State, is not only concerned on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, but also directly concerns Europe, as the previous speakers have already pointed out. From recent mission experiences in Iraq and Afghanistan, we know very well how little really means geographical distances in today's conflicts. We know that hatred produces hatred, that extremism gives birth to violence, and that today's distant concerns may tomorrow touch us or one of our very close allies. Therefore, I would like to remind all those in this Chamber that we must be ready and, sooner rather than later, think again about remotely remote, but not only geographically, but perhaps sometimes also mentally distant, nautical. Our relatively small and short-term operation in the Central African Republic facing a humanitarian crisis is now over. However, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has spoken earlier that we must also be ready to help in the coming decade, for example, in resolving crises in Africa. A stable environment at home is, of course, necessary to be able to contribute to remote and difficult conditions, but at the same time to work consistently and sustainablely on building up its own defence capacity. Stable funding of national defence creates a stable development environment for our military defence, but alongside military defence, internal security must also be our priority. Of course, as Minister for Defence, I am convinced that the development of internal security cannot be done at the expense of plans to develop military defence capabilities, just as it cannot be done on the contrary. We must continue to seek synergies between internal security and military defence capabilities, to ensure that we can use all our resources, if necessary, to ensure internal security, as well as operational planning, or even to counter the so-called 'green men's' and other asymmetric hybrid threats. I am pleased that the state budget for next year has made a serious contribution to the reconstruction of the state's military defence, but it also prioritises the security of internal security, including the Estonian border. Finally, I would like to put to everyone's heart that national defence is a serious issue and should not become the main battlefield in the forthcoming elections. A valid debate is extremely necessary and welcome, but defence policy should certainly not become a beauty contest or original promises of competition. We must continue to develop our military capabilities and fill gaps in capabilities, but we must do so in a responsible way without breaking down those things that already work well. I would like to stress once again that Estonia is well protected in the current tense international security situation, as we have effectively developed our independent primary defence capabilities, but we have also successfully mobilised our NATO allies in changed circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U82	Thank you. You have questions too. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U83	Thank you, manager. Thank you very much, Minister, for a good presentation. In the context of national security, the issue of national defence education has risen sharply. The idea has been put forward to activate national defence education in schools, making it compulsory until then to create a national defence gymnasium, as has been done exemplaryly in America and Canada, for example. What is your position: could a national defence gymnasium be established in Estonia and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U84	First of all, from national defence studies in schools. At present, more than 140 upper secondary schools are studied at school, if I am not mistaken, then in total there are 203 of them in national defence education as an elective. National defence is mandatory for schools if students want to study it. That's a pretty good arrangement. It is also worth considering making national defence education compulsory. At the same time, we know how important it is precisely this free defence that will be realised in Estonia, for example, by belonging to the Defence League. I believe that this free will, in itself, is worth studying national defence, and that it is a good indicator that this free will is being realised on such a massive scale. Now for national defence education. There are several schools in Estonia where there is one field of study in national defence at the upper secondary school level. In his day, about ten years ago, when Olari Taa was probably the head of the Defence League's body of elders, he came up with the idea of creating a cadet school in Estonia, a boarding school where national defence education would be deepened. There is certainly room for national defence training in the Estonian educational landscape, whether in the form of such a cadet school or also in the form of a gymnasium, and I would certainly welcome this initiative. However, in the context of broad-soil management of defence, I think it is very important that all the authorities, all the top officials who run the agencies, which have a bearing on this broad-soil defence, are very aware of their role, their tasks and the country's conceptual approach to broad-soil defence. One important part of raising national defence awareness and strengthening national defence education could be training for senior officials at the strategic level of national defence. This can certainly be started through already existing national defence courses, but this could be done even more in depth, on the same principle as the training of top security officials at the National Defence University in America. The development of national defence education is certainly very important, and I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U85	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U86	Honourable waitress! I am reading the reports of the OSCE mission in Ukraine over the last few days. Yesterday, a Ukrainian guard station in Smile village was attacked. Lugansk People's Republic fighters organized an ambush three kilometers away from Smile, where 12 Ukrainian fighters were killed. The Grads attacked the Mariupoli area of 7 dead, 14 wounded. Clearly, the peace agreement is not working, and there are many deaths, which are added every day. What have been the relevant discussions within NATO? And as a representative of Estonia in the European Union, perhaps you know, at what point is the European Union ready to help Ukraine with certain state-of-the-art technologies, such as miniradars and drones, etc.? Is it really the intention to help Ukraine with state-of-the-art technologies to strengthen the state's self-defence capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U87	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U88	These various ideological trends have some common ground, which should certainly be opposed to power policy, imperialism. This common element is being sought internally to break down and split up by all means. Let's make sure we don't split it inside our society! What should Estonia do in the current situation? There is no doubt that alongside the development of the critical capabilities of defence and the optimal institutional functioning, there are still objectives and some of these issues go beyond the competences of the ministries that we had here today. Due to the case of Eston Suitcase, border guards' capabilities and even border surveillance have risen sharply to the agenda. I have to admit that I have spoken to many people involved in this area, and I am seriously concerned that there are few among them who do not criticise the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board. We have had all kinds of connection to the unification of ministries, the connection of radio and television. For so long after the addition, the passions generally subside, but here something must have gone wrong. Something definitely went wrong with the removal of the Border Guard Training Centre from Narva-Jõesuu in its time. Whether the Academy of Home Affairs as a whole can be returned to the region in such a deus ex machina, I deeply doubt that. But some things, some institutions will definitely get. It is also possible to correct errors. We also have a bearded story about the situation of the Russian media. I remember very well how it rose up very acutely and clearly in this Chamber in 2007 after the Bronze Night. Then it came down, and it was forgotten, put under the bed. Now we'll talk about it again, but we haven't done anything. So as a society, we have a lot of work to do in dealing with this part of society, which is inevitably in the sphere of influence of Russian propaganda, and that is not easy. Worried times are over. Yes, sanctions, yes, European-American security cooperation. What can we do as Members of Parliament by participating in international delegations, international organisations? In my opinion, one of the most important and clear principles is to say everywhere that aggressor must be called aggressor. The involvement of Russian units in the conflict in Ukraine is beyond any doubt. Things need to be mentioned with the right names, because where the aggressor is located, the natural isolation, which should be an international practice, can be brought back quietly. There is always such a danger, and we must resist it. I've seen so many of these retrieving experiments and quieting down problems! That is what we, as Members of Parliament, can do. Finally, the first political statement of the Estonian Free Party bore the same title as today's debate. I see the greatest threat to security, in fact, when our citizens are passive, when there is emigration and democracy does not work in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U89	Mr President, few colleagues in the Chamber and others, perhaps listening to the broadcast. I thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for listening to this very important question. I guess he is that Islamist extremism, Ebola and Russia's aggression are the three biggest issues, and the latter is, unfortunately, the closest to us. This is probably also the result of the emphasis of these discussions. The analysis of the security situation in the Baltic Sea region by the beginning of 2012 was quite an interesting reading. Yes, the development that Russia would return to centralised and authoritarian leadership and pre-emptive military aspects of security policy was visible at the time, but there was no drama yet. And we have had some wishful thinking, which we so often criticise with our Western colleagues. Yeah, stopping aggressive development is getting harder and harder at each of the next stages of aggression. This would have been easier to do in Georgia in 2008, even easier to do in the Chechnya conflict ten years ago. But it wasn't done. Now the tests are more decisive, but what is going on is clearly over the edge and extremely dangerous. The very first threats, I think, have been linked to the attempt to reverse the development of Moldova and Georgia towards Europe by any means. As far as we and other border states in Russia are concerned, it is likely that border incidents such as the one we have had, one of the most serious, have happened to the Eston Suitcase, could be more. And there could be other provocations. The aim is probably one: to test the patience of these countries, including Estonia, and perhaps to discredit NATO by demonstrating what Moscow can do. At this stage, I do not see that the threat of security is so direct and acute for us, but no one knows, and obviously the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not know, how long this conflict will last and what turns it may take. An even greater threat to us from the immediate military threat that exists today is how Russian society develops, how radical moods develop there, and how they can mature in time. The emergence of new, even more aggressive moods in the management of a large country is a threat and this threat may last for a very long time. Worried times are over. The issue of values and coherence, which also emerged here, is, frankly, an increasing concern for me. I certainly do not think it reasonable to try to establish a monopoly of values that are not shared by the majority of society and which are pushed through in the light of bad legislative practice. Therefore, last week's events in the Riigikogu did not give me much enthusiasm. To be honest, in a water-hungry society, I think it's going to be misplaced. The Western value system should be characterised by acceptance of various ideological trends. I would also like to emphasise this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Paet, who has highlighted this issue here. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U90	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U91	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to devote my minutes to Ukraine in front of this hall. Ukraine has spoken a lot today in a different key. I will focus on the pre-election situation, which I was able to discuss in quite detail last week with the Ukrainians themselves. What has happened in Ukraine because of the ongoing war between Crimea and Eastern Ukraine? There has been a great deal of principle. First of all, I would like to point out the complete suspension of the reforms. Certainly, after the events of February, Ukraine had a unique opportunity to carry out reforms that have not yet been achieved. It has not been possible to do this because of involuntary and political struggles. Most regrettablely, I would point out the reform of the justice system that is so under-trusted that it is almost impossible to find a judicial system elsewhere in Europe. I bring the work of the prosecutor's office, for example. As the prosecutor so far conducted his own investigations, it was not unexpected that in Ukraine, the percentage of cases he won was almost 99%. Now it has fallen to 97% after certain changes. There is certainly an urgent need for some kind of independent system in order to be able to complain about police violence, for example. It is still missing in Ukraine. So, the objectivity of the judges, the significantly increased supervisory function of the prosecutor's office, the analysis of investigations, all of which were initiated and, to a certain extent, the legal basis in Ukraine, has unfortunately now stopped. Cause: military activity on the territory of the country. The constitutional reform also needs a very thorough analysis in Ukraine, and international experts have been advising over the years on how to make local authorities more independent, how to support regional specificities in terms of both money and decision-making. It's caused tension for a long time. There have been compromises, but so-called separatism in the eastern parts of the country has stopped this whole process. If anyone is currently talking about greater independence of local government in Ukraine, it is immediately marked in one line with a desire for separation, or separatism. What else has stopped in Ukraine because of the conflict? There is a very deep economic crisis in the country. Economic development has turned into a recession; the fall of the grivna in days is visible to every person: queues at the currency exchange points after payday are only one clear sign. Long-term investments are either frozen or taken away to the neighbouring countries, the largest export market in Russia is closed. One of the most painful issues, I am sure, is the gas talks with Russia. In Ukraine, this theme passes through news every day. These talks continue to run into congestion, of course due to Moscow's deep involuntary nature. Perhaps less has been said about the fact that most mines are under water and are unusable this winter, even after the war has ended. In solving all these problems, the key word is very clear financial assistance, as we look at it. Otherwise, Ukraine's winter is unlikely to survive in such a way that normal conditions are guaranteed for people. Ukraine has also been hit by a very deep internal crisis because of the conflict. On the one hand, for the first time in a period of independence, we have seen such a thing as Ukraine's patriotism, which has also been tried to brand nationalism in the most negative sense of the word. But yes, the clear manifestations of Ukrainian patriotism are visible to every person who has arrived in Ukraine. People have painted their fences, planks in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, and two-coloured lines have appeared on the telephone poles. These are signs of deep patriotism that has not yet been revealed in Ukraine. But there's another side to it. While Ukraine has so far been about 50: 50 on the basis of the preference of parties divided, the ethnic gap has now come in. The most negative manifestation of this is that campaigns against minorities have occasionally been launched in some regions. We have to admit that, too. This is clearly the result of the annexation of Crimea and the whole war. Unfortunately, these are not individual cases and sometimes this confrontation is expressed in violence. Human rights organisations on the one side and on the other side, including very strong Ukrainian civil society organisations themselves, are drawing up relevant reports, also reflecting fatal cases. Today, however, democratic elections are the keyword. It is extremely important that Estonia also supports democratic parliamentary elections next Sunday with its observers and foreign policy. The more representative and convincing the results, the higher the percentage of participation, are the more confident that the above challenges can be addressed both in the response to the internal and economic crisis and in the implementation of reforms. The fight against corruption at all levels is, of course, also essential here. At the end of this I say that I am not only hoping, but I am sure that Estonia too can make a very important contribution to Ukraine's reforms with its knowledge and skills. We have been doing a lot of these for decades, and our opinion in Ukraine is also very much taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U93	We cannot hope here that the current sanctions of the European Union and other Western allies will have an impact. They have obviously not had such an effect that the battle in Ukraine would have ended. At the same time, Estonia cannot accept the relaxation of the existing European Union sanctions until all the points of the Minsk Armistice Agreement have been fully implemented and the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U94	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U95	Thank you very much. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Margus Hanson Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U96	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided at the beginning of 2012 to pay more attention to the security of the Baltic Sea region, it was motivated by a changed security environment in Europe. This is also the case in September of the same year, i.e. only two years ago, at the request of the Commission, in a report prepared by the International Centre for Defence Research, which stated that the growing shortage of resources in the United States, the reduction in defence costs in Europe, the changing geopolitical situation and the change in the generation of the political leadership in the United States have led to a decrease in US attention to Europe. Therefore, the division of labour within NATO, as well as the responsibilities of each individual country, must be thoroughly reviewed. The report agreed that the security concerns and security guarantees of the Baltic Sea countries should be seen in a broader context, including in view of Russia's vigorous behaviour in the region, its policy towards NATO and the weakness of regional security architecture. There was concern that the relationship between the forces of Russia and the North Atlantic Alliance in the asymmetries would continue to grow. Military capabilities and the level of defence spending in the region in Europe tend to be in favour of Russia. Quite harsh and dissuasive, but at the same time timely findings seemed to have occurred at the time. Over the last year, the security environment in Europe has changed. Two years ago, unfortunately, the letter has proved to be true in the most authentic way, not directly in the Baltic Sea region, but geopolitically near us, in the close proximity of NATO and the European Union. Russia's aggression against sovereign Ukraine, the attempt to redeploy national borders in Europe, the use of military force and wrestling, the use of new non-traditional aggression and spitting on international agreements, these are direct factors affecting European security. Europe, which has enjoyed nearly 70 years of peace, still cannot fully understand and make sense of all this. The debates on how to deal with this new situation are still ongoing. However, most of the proposals in the 2012 report have recently been met. We can say that Estonia and other Baltic countries have never been more protected than they are today. More attention has been paid to the Baltic Sea region in the changed situation. In Estonia we can also be sure that the efforts we have made as a nation since independence have now produced a good result. I would like here to congratulate both the government and all diplomats for their good and operational work in a changed security situation, as well as our defence forces for cementing our allied relations on foreign missions. We can be sure of our security, but we must not fall asleep. I'll remind you of the children's story of the three piggies who built a house for themselves. We all know that from straw and twigs, the house stays only until the first serious shaking. In our own climate and security zones, we set up a stone house built with firm will, which keeps warm even when the wind blows outside, and is safe when a wolf or a bear knocks on the door. We wish Estonia a democratic and economically successful Russia as its neighbour. But building such a country can only take place across borders; we must be prepared here for any choice in the neighbouring country. And more importantly, we also need to explain all the possible colours of this spectrum of options to our allies. We want to encourage all our good allies in NATO to strive for the share of defence costs compared to gross domestic product as agreed. In Europe, this may, of course, seem difficult in the face of continuing economic stagnation, but it is also worth remembering that neglecting the financing of defence capabilities can ultimately become much more expensive. As a NATO member, we want the organisation's commitment to further strengthen collective defence. There seem to be enough challenges in the world. We also support the European Union's more coordination and increased response speed if the European security environment continues to change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U97	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Doesn't the minister want to speak more, to say an objection? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations. The agenda for today's sitting has been exhausted. The sitting is adjourned. See you next week! Thanks to everyone! Closure of the sitting at 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U98	Thank you. And please, Barbi Pilvre on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said many times, Russia's aggression against Ukraine has changed the security situation in Europe and worldwide. Estonia, as a neighbouring country of Russia, has legitimate concerns about its security. We closely follow the news from Ukraine and do not know what is going on in the head of the Russian leadership, which is the next guiding principle or who is the next object of the hostilities. Feelings of national origin are always frightening, especially when they are dominated by a great nation. Uncertainty is added by the fact that, despite its efforts, Europe has not been able to reach a consensus on sanctions against Russia. It is a pity that even the reactions of our good neighbours in Central and Northern Europe are so controversial. Europe is possessed by pragmatism. On the one hand, it is understandable to Estonians, because we are also ridding about the impact of sanctions against Russia on our economy, on the other hand, it is sad that the attitude towards the integrity of national borders in the centre of Europe depends on the counting of money. We'd expect more idealism! However, this is a reality that needs to be taken into account. The division of Europe into two, new and old, clearly stands out in its attitude towards Ukraine. In this light, every step that Estonia makes is important in order to be part of the post-Soviet cultural space in North and West, not Eastern Europe. I would not underestimate the adoption of the Cohabitation Act here, which, as a sign, refers to our belonging to one society with the old Europe, and which has a clear foreign dimension, as demonstrated by the reaction of foreign embassies to the decision of the Riigikogu. In a changed security situation, every person in Estonia thinks what happens if there is a need to protect the independence of his country. Is NATO really ready to take radical steps for Estonia or another Baltic state? Was it courtesy to the President of the United States, Obama, who visited Estonia, or can we really believe that Tallinn and Vilnius are as important cities as London and Paris? The presence of NATO fighters adds confidence, but the skeptical Estonian still thinks, but what if somewhere between bushes actually comes into play when there is no time and proper discussion on cyber defence, soft power and information war, because there is a direct physical contact with the aggressor. Does Estonia's defence capacity still work? Does every person know how to behave in the confusion that always comes with unexpected circumstances? There is no doubt that the Estonian Defence Forces are operating, but what is civil society doing? Should we continue our daily work and take the children to school and kindergarten? Stay in the city or go to a country home? What if people start fleeing the country until they can? What are the choices of each individual? Who remembers the events of the late 1980s and early 1990s, understands that these topics are not abstract. We have a Defence League of 20,000 people, armed men and women's homeguards who can act in an organized manner in any confusion. We believe that they can maintain a cold head and not be subject to provocation. What, though, if a non-organized, self - acting hothead does not control his behavior? In war and love, as we know, everything is allowed, and the way society gets out of control, we have seen the example of Eastern Ukraine. Okay, Estonia is not Ukraine, with this idea you can calm yourself down. At the same time, however, questions remain about civil society behaviour and civil protection in connection with it. How does the part of society that is not subject to military command lines organize in an emergency? What is happening in different regions of Estonia, with a large Russian population in Tallinn or Narva? Does integration hold water? What is happening in detention facilities? Will the loyalty of the officials to the Estonian state be preserved? I don't want to dramatize, but an Estonian who knows from experience that in a difficult situation you only have to rely on yourself would actually want to find out what happens then. Perhaps civil protection should be more specifically integrated into the social education of the school programme. All of a sudden, a general education in national defence, which is currently left as an elective, would be necessary. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U100	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U101	As a person living in Soviet times, I have gone through compulsory military training in high school, including taking Kalashnikov out of time and competing with other schools in the military-sports game 'Son of an Eagle' on my school team. At the university, philologists were also trained as a nurse for civil protection purposes. I have almost forgotten all this, and these experiences have made me more like a pacifist for a long time, who has viewed any military matter with a superior irony. However, I admit: in the light of recent events, I support everything that relates to the subject of protection, including the increase in defence costs, and why not also the strengthening of military-sports-like education in the school system. What's going on on the front lines is the line of the Defence Forces. What's going on in the rear? I would also like to talk about the replacement service, where the contingent of the sick and the wounded, among other things, should grow. The concept of replacement services should be reviewed in a changed security situation. Perhaps the demands placed on the replacement service should be relaxed. With regard to defence capabilities, a meaningful, wide-ranging discussion on the topic of the alternative service would be needed. Even in a peaceful situation, society always needs those who are able to help help the helpless and in need. It's something other than fingering the whiny hightech militarities. However, in a conflict or disaster situation, such readiness and ability acquires special significance. It is certainly also a spiritual willingness to help those in need; it is part of their defense. Estonia is now calm for happiness. Hopefully, we do not need NATO assistance or mobilisation of the whole society to protect the independence of the country. At the same time, knowing that all systems work and that everyone knows what to do in an emergency, plus confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U102	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Juhan Parts Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U103	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, During 2014, Estonia's threat picture and the international security situation have deteriorated rapidly and significantly. We have been able to develop for 23 years in a relatively peaceful security environment. Now we have to realise that together with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, we are at the heart of a potential conflict region. There is one question I did not hear the answer to today from either minister: what future scenario do we consider to be real, how long this conflict could last? There are different geopolitical scenarios. Even if the situation were to develop in 2014 as it is now, it was already written ten years ago. Some geopolitical scenarios estimate that this cold-war-like but regional situation will last at least ten years. We therefore need to take into account a much longer period of time in our policies, both security, foreign and defence policy. We cannot say one step or the other, whether it is right or wrong, whether it is justified or not, unless we have an idea of future scenarios. This decade will not be uniform. The phases of the rapid escalation of the crisis, which we have seen for the last ten months, will certainly vary with the 'good face' phases, depending on the economic performance of Russia. I have six observations regarding today's discussion. First of all, the biggest change for us is that sovereignty based on international law is, in our neighbour's opinion, based solely on force from now on. Therefore, in order to defend our sovereignty, we must be able to respond with force. At the same time, as a member of NATO, we need to insist more eloquently that NATO should act quickly and effectively, that contract paper is not enough. The deployment of troops needs to be actually changed. Against this background, it is important to recall that it was Reinsalu, Minister of Defence of the IRL, who called for the immediate introduction of U.S. armored vehicles into Estonia even before the NATO Summit in Wales. We remember the reactions back then. Top politicians and top military demonstrated that they had no idea of possible scenarios for the future, and that was all nine months ago. So my first message is that we can't follow. Now, what do I see in the government's three important steps not to be a tail jogger? Of course, the decisions of the Wales Summit must be implemented, but yet we want to hear in the coming months that the government will carry out a substantive analysis of how the capabilities provided for in the National Defence Development Plan can be developed more quickly. For us, the national defence debate is not a matter of gymnasium or other crabby crabs, but the question is whether we are developing critical military capabilities, I am thinking above all of armoured maneuvering and mid-ground air control capabilities earlier than foreseen in the long-term development plan. Yes, the government has to bring this analysis to this hall, and only then can we assess how to secure all this with money. We're looking forward to it in the next two months! Secondly, we consider it a critical step to ensure that national defence management is organised at the state's top level immediately. The Prime Minister must have the right to organise the substance and be able to perform institutionally the duties of supreme leader of national defence. And yet, following us has been a problem for our present Minister of Foreign Affairs. As long as there were credible and effective hardliners in the region, such as Pan Sikorski in the Polish Government, Carl Bildt in the Swedish Government, we could count on others, but I think that Estonia is now the turn. Let Paet go to Brussels and the Reform Party name the Minister of Foreign Affairs who is capable of being a hardliner, influential and credible person in the Western foreign policy circles. I went through those names. My proposal is that Mr Kallas must be presented as Minister of Foreign Affairs with the decision of the Reform Party. If you do not reach an agreement on Kallas within the Reform Party, the IRL will propose at least three, if not four hardliners, as Foreign Minister. The second proved: the most critical factor in our security arrangements is the unity between the European Union and NATO Member States. This is not just a word, but we must take action in this regard. This crisis has highlighted very weak positions in southern Europe, but also in the former Warsaw Pact countries, and especially in our tribal nation in Hungary. Only two days ago, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we learned that Estonia and Hungary have fought a covert diplomatic battle over the last six months. I call on the Estonian Government to change its position and not close the embassy in Budapest. We are ready to make appropriate proposals to amend the draft state budget. It is our duty to make clear to the governments of the former Warsaw Pact countries, together with people who think alike, what this crisis is all about. We must have an alliance with them, and I am absolutely sure that Mr Orbán would understand this despite his worrying internal policy. Thirdly, the importance of the European Union has grown exponentially in ensuring our security. It is a question of sanctions policy. What we are interested in is that sanctions aimed at restricting Russia's access to international financial markets, loan instruments, will persist. No matter what happens in the 'good face' phase in the coming months, the Estonian government must be guided by a clearly defined condition. This condition can only be one: the restoration of the former situation, including the issue of Crimea. There is no other way, the Western community must not give in naively when a possible "good face" phase is launched. Fourthly, the image of countries is an important issue in the new security situation. Our big problem is that, by referring to threats, we ourselves have come into a situation where the international media are talking about us as the next victim. It will affect our economic situation, our foreign investment, our tourism. Now our question is how to achieve a reasonable balance between what is known as justified concerns in the economy and demonstrating self-confidence and stability. My proposal is for the State Department to reorganize the work of the press department. We are sick and tired of Saturday morning snowflakes, which reflect your excellent achievements on the foreign policy front! We need an active communication policy in the Western Information Room, now! And lastly, since time is running out, I want to refer to the centre of this crisis. The key to this crisis is in Kiev. The realisation of Ukraine's and Europe's choices depends on one question: to what extent the new President and the elected forest can cope with the corruption that kills the development of the economy and the rule of law. I expect Estonia to say very clearly to the political leaders and elite of Ukraine in its bilateral relations and in all its activities in the European Union: you will get your economy going, you will actually be able to do the will of your people to step on the road to Europe if you put an end to corruption immediately, tomorrow morning! And then the money will come to Ukraine, the investments will come to Ukraine, and the West will take seriously the task of helping Ukraine out of the swamp to which it is about to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U104	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallemets!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-16_U105	President-in-Office of the Council. I have some comments. The European Union Affairs Committee has discussed the issue of Ukraine several times. Hopefully, by the end of next year, all the countries of the European Union will have signed an association and free trade agreement and Ukraine will become an associated member of the European Union without interruption. It would be nice to talk about supporting this process if there were no very aggressive pressure from Russia, too, at its own expense, so that Ukraine would certainly not become an associated member of the European Union. In retrospect to history, I stress that the young Republic of Estonia received extensive humanitarian and military assistance during the War of Independence, even though it was not a member of NATO or the League of Nations. Many countries had not even recognised us as an independent state, but the citizens of Scandinavia, England and the United States, and many countries, still gave us extensive economic and military assistance. Unfortunately, Russia continues its military action against Ukraine with its regular forces as well as with its self-proclaimed units with an average intensity. The sanctions of the West, Japan and Australia have slowed down the mass attack, but have not stopped the multi-faceted pressure of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, whether through restrictions on gas supplies, acts of war, threats or trade sanctions. The territorial integrity of Ukraine cannot be supported solely by blankets and milk powder. Given how Ukrainian defence forces were demolished under the influence of the Russian Federation during the Yanukovych regime, Europe and the United States of America, Canada and other Western allies must contribute effectively to modernising Ukraine's defence capabilities. There is a keen need for modern non-lethal defence technology, such as mini-radars, which can detect whether units are fired with cannons or other firing devices, and secure communication devices that cannot be eavesdropped or localised. There is a known attempt by the Ukrainian Defence Forces to make a cell phone ring, and after seven minutes it was hit by an exact Russian unit artillery fire. We also need security equipment and unmanned reconnaissance planes. In the last two areas, Estonian companies produce world-class state-of-the-art technology. I am convinced that it is in Estonia's interest to make a serious contribution to Ukraine's defence capabilities according to our capabilities and to cooperate with our close allies Poland and the United States, who have already supplied to Ukraine the drones, night vision devices, shatters, helmets and other non-lethal protective equipment produced in their country. Of course, Ukraine must also be supported economically: legal processes, the fight against corruption, humanitarian aid must be supported. But now there is still active combat, where dozens of people die. And as long as the battle has not ended, it is very difficult to imagine that Ukraine can develop in a stable manner. It's really hard to imagine. I'll take some more time.
