ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U1	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act 653 amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Chair, Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, No amendments were tabled by 29 May and no amendments have been made to the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. There was no further debate on the substance of the draft provisions in the Commission. It can be said that this is an exceptionally high-quality bill. Although it regulates the potentially quite complex area of gambling tax, as mentioned above, there were no substantive amendments. What was to be denied here was not a very long and thorough discussion in this area, and the Commission did not have any technical or linguistic corrections to the draft submitted by the Ministry of Finance. So once again, extremely high-quality legislation from the Ministry of Finance. At its meeting on 2 June, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 June 2014 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Both decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U3	Any questions for the waitress? There's so much talk in the hall that it feels like it's prepared for questions. However, there are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 653. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U4	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please, the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U5	The draft law amending the Income Tax Act is numbered 643. Let me briefly present its contents. The content of the draft can be summarised in two points. The first concerns the arrangements for compensation for the use of a private passenger car for work trips. The current possibility of paying a monthly compensation of EUR 60 is lost, for which it was not necessary to prove how this car was used for compensation purposes, i.e. for work trips. The second point concerns the current maximum amount of tax-free compensation, which is currently EUR 256. According to this draft, this limit will rise to EUR 335 per month. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit proposals within the deadline for amendments. A meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, preparing for the second reading of the draft, took place on 3 June. The commission decided to make one amendment to the draft. This proposal concerns the deadline for the entry into force of the law. It was decided to postpone it by two months in order to allow companies to adapt to the changes. The new law may slightly increase the administrative burden on businesses, especially those who used this €64 compensation without the obligation to prove the use of the car. Now it has to be regulated somehow. During the examination of the amendments, the Commission proposed to amend the deadline for the entry into force of the Act by extending it until 1 January 2015. As the draft had been proposed for 1 July as the date of entry into force, two proposals were put to a competitive vote. The competitive vote was won on 1 September and the date was also put to the final vote as an amendment by the Commission. This amendment was then tabled by the Commission. In addition, the debate proposed to further increase the ceiling for compensation to EUR 350 instead of EUR 335. The proposal was not supported by 2 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 11 June with a proposal to close the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U6	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. Yesterday morning, I listened on the radio to your interview with Rainbow Radio. You said that most entrepreneurs who pay EUR 64 for using a car without filling out a diary would pay people extra wages without paying taxes. Does that say there's some kind of proof? Is there an analysis behind this, or is it just your opinion? If there's an analysis, I'd be happy to get to know it. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U8	I admit I haven't listened to this interview myself. But I know what I said. I don't think you have any reason to be familiar with any analysis, but maybe you could interrogate this interview again. I certainly did not say that the majority of the payers of EUR 64 would use this option as a salary supplement. However, it can be assumed that such companies exist. However, in the context of this draft, I do not think it matters how many exactly there are. In any event, the Income Tax Act, in its current form, allows for the payment of wages with a much lower tax burden, and the avoidance or limitation of this possibility is one of the objectives of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U9	Thank you. Priit Toobal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U10	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. If you see a problem that up to now companies have had the opportunity to use this provision as a salary supplement, you must have an analysis of it, not an opinion that maybe somewhere in the company will be paid in this way. Does this analysis exist and, if so, when and where can we get acquainted with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U11	If I see that the law provides an opportunity to use this provision to pay the salary supplement, I do not think it needs a separate analysis. The possibility is provided by law whether it is used or to what extent it is used. So right now, we certainly don't need an analysis, we need to look at the law. I think, even without a thorough analysis, it can be argued that if the company is able to pay the employee EUR 64 without paying the normal labour tax, some companies will take advantage of this option if it is not obliged to check in any way or prove that the employee is using a personal car in the interests of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U12	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Good chairman of the committee! Did I understand correctly that you have just said that if there is a possibility to use this legal provision to pay a salary supplement of EUR 64, it is likely to be done? But does that make sense that you also agree that I should be arrested for rape because I have the means?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U14	I think that, if there is an opportunity under the current law to pay this wage supplement, at least the presumption that entrepreneurs are using it certainly exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U15	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft; we will review it. The proposal is presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 643. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U16	Our 19th item on the agenda is the continuation of the second reading of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 554. I would like to present a speech to Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft was likely to take place on 21 May and was interrupted. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 26 May. No proposals were made in the Riigikogu to amend the draft by this deadline. The National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu, the Competition Board, the Confederation of Employers, and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior gave their opinion on the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for the continuation of the second reading, which was held at its meeting on 3, 5 and 9 June. In addition to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the specialists of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the people of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and representatives of the Confederation of Employers were invited to participate, as well as several sworn advocates. The two main issues addressed were competition crimes and intellectual property offences. When discussing in detail § 400 of the Penal Code, the Committee on Legal Affairs concluded that it is not possible or appropriate at present to change the composition of the crime that it contains. It is not considered right to treat what it says as wrongdoing. The views of the parties differed on this point, but the Commission made its decision in a consensual manner. At the same time, we proposed to the Ministry of Justice that, by 30 September, a complex solution be developed for more effective handling of competition offences. I would like to stress that the Commission has not previously discussed or discussed new solutions to competition crimes in this session either from this point of view, in order to lighten sanctions, as the media, which intervened in the meantime, claimed. The press gave the impression that they wanted to soften the penalties imposed on businesses. Rather, this issue has been in the field of view because the criminal proceedings have not been effective. It's been very time-consuming, the investigations are jammed. In fact, the aim is not to convict an individual or a responsible employee of the company or a senior executive of the company as a criminal offence. The aim is to put companies in charge of large sums of money. The Committee on Legal Affairs intends to further address these issues in the autumn. As I mentioned, there were no amendments on this subject in the Commission. The second issue was intellectual property, which was dealt with by Amendment 3. One important principle was changed. In the past, the qualifying feature for these crimes was a significant scale, i.e. significant damage or significant benefit, which was known to be EUR 4000. The amendment was now proposed to set EUR 200 instead of EUR 4000. So 20 times that amount is going to decrease. One of the new moments in the series of amendments, 28 in total, is proposal 15, with which we intend to amend the law on law enforcement. This law was not previously listed, although the draft 554 is intended to amend 120 laws. If you remember, we had a large law enforcement bill quite recently in this room. There were some gaps in the training process. One of the most questionable principles is the possibility of police intervention. If in some cases the police were able to intervene only in the event of an increased threat, the word 'enhanced' will now be removed from the text by means of a legislative amendment. After all, there are certain irregularities where the police are not allowed to intervene, but no one else, for example, exercising administrative supervision, is obliged to intervene according to the law. One basic explanation is when the police are allowed to enter the dwelling. This is permitted in order to eliminate non-compliance where prolonged or repeated interferences that significantly disturb another person and are not otherwise possible, as well as to counter the imminent increased threat, are spreading beyond the possession of the other person. As I said, the total number of amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs is 28. We have proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda and that the second reading be closed today, on 11 June now it is already 12 June, and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, and that the final vote on the draft be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U18	Thank you. Please ask your question, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President. A good waitress, given your last sentence, has the Commission already determined when the third reading could take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U20	The third reading could take place on 18 June on a proposal from the Commission. Thank you for that observation. It's really late.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U21	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U22	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. The rapporteur from the Commission. I have been in Parliament for a little over three years and, if we do statistics, the most amended code of law during that time has been the Code of Criminal Procedure. What's the reason? Has the original law been extremely incomplete, or has the Ministry constantly come before the Commission with new initiatives to amend the law in Parliament? Why does Parliament change the criminal code so often?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U23	I didn't understand whether the questioner was thinking about the Penal Code currently being discussed or the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendments to the Penal Code, at least for the three years I have been in Parliament, cannot be remembered; this is perhaps even the first time. But we have indeed changed the Code of Criminal Procedure several times. And it's hard to comment on why. After all, these initiatives have also come from the party of the questioner, and this has led to the current amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. One draft is waiting and the group is already operating, so in the autumn we will be able to deal again with certain changes here. But as far as the Penal Code is concerned, it has lived its time, and these changes have probably been planned since 2007. At the time, the Minister of Justice initiated these topics and was supported by the President of the Supreme Court Märt Rask. It started in 2005, 2006 or 2007. There have been no changes of this magnitude for several years. I hope that certain things will remain in place for a while now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U24	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. 28 amendments have been tabled by the commission, and we will examine them. I repeat that all the proposals have been made by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment No 1, commission of authority to take full account, no 2 to take full account, no 3 to take full account, no 4 to take full account, no 5 to take full account, no 6 to take full account, no 7 to take full account, no 8 to take full account, no 9 to take full account, no 10 to take full account, no 11 to take full account, no 12 to take full account, no 13 to take full account, no 14 to take full account, no 15 to take full account, no 16 to take full account, no 17 to take full account, no 18 to take full account, no 19 to take full account, no 20 to take full account, no 21 to take full account, no 22 to take full account, no 23 to take full account, no 24 to take full account, no 25 to take full account, no 26 to take full account full account, no 27 to take full account, no 28 to take full account. All amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 554. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U25	Our 20th item today is the continuation of the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 578 second reading. I would like to speak to Mr Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft was suspended at the plenary session on 4 June. The deadline for submitting amendments was set in s. a 5 June at 10 a.m. No amendments to the Committee on Legal Affairs were tabled by the deadline for the submission of proposals. The Commission discussed a draft for the second reading to be continued on 5 June. Kati Taitse-Pärnna, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, also took part in the meeting. The Committee on Legal Affairs itself initiated two amendments. The first proposal is to amend § 1 (4) of the draft and to restore the wording of the new § 341 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the original text. To update my memory, a change from the Centre Party Group was voted in at second reading, and now it will be changed to a circle, and the original text will be replaced. The second amendment proposed by the Commission is of a technical specification: the draft Code of Criminal Procedure is accompanied by two references to the technical remark. So what did the commission decide? Submit a draft for the second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 11 June and propose the termination of the second reading. For the sake of the protocol, I must state that it is already 12 June. It was also proposed by the Commission that, when the second reading is closed, the draft be referred to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a third reading by Thursday, 12 June with the proposal for a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U27	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As a rapporteur, you are certainly aware that we have a large panel of experts discussing the amendment of criminal proceedings, and the common position has been that we come out of the Riigikogu in the autumn with a larger or smaller package, depending on how the Minister agrees with the people of the Ministry to make changes in criminal proceedings. One of them is quite similar to what the Centre Party Group proposed. Was this discussed in the committee, or did you stand by for which draft will be prepared in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U29	We discussed this issue at several meetings of the Commission. Therefore, this amendment by the Centre Party Group was really in our discussion, and we reached the conclusion that, when the Ministry of Justice has completed the larger package, your proposal will go to an in-depth discussion along with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U30	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to the draft law have been tabled, both submitted by the lead committee. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposed by the lead committee, to take full account of it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U31	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U32	Thank you. Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 12 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 578. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U33	Our 21st item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, please address Annely Akkermanni, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U34	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say good night, but I think I have to say good morning. On 17 March 2014, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Fisheries Act. Its first reading was completed on 16 April and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5 May 2014. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on the Environment finalised three amendments. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been discussed at two meetings of the Commission. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meeting on 19 May and 3 June. Amendment 1 is based on the desire of coastal fishermen in Pärnu to establish a legal basis for the distribution of the quantities of herring caught by pottrap. The professional fishermen of the municipalities of Häädemeeste and Tahkuranna approached the Riigikogu with the problem that because of the unfair management of herring fisheries, the herring harvest and consequently the income of fishermen are unequally distributed in the Livonian Gulf of Pärnu county. Fishermen reported that in recent years the herring quota in Pärnu County has been common to all fishermen authorised to fish for herring in the Gulf of Riga. When herring catches open, so-called Olympic fishing begins between professional fishermen. Those who are able to catch more herring during the management period will receive a higher income. However, herring reaches different parts of the Gulf of Riga at different times and the Olympic fishery ends some years earlier than the herring has reached all fishermen's fishing grounds. The amendment complements the Fisheries Act so that the Government of the Republic can establish an annual herring yield per cacti. The draft also proposes the possibility of transferring the right to be caught with a water trap and sanctions in case of overfishing. Amendment 2 stipulates that the historic fishing rights of a permanent resident of a small island can only be transferred to a resident of the same small island who, according to the population register, has resided permanently on that island for at least one year. Amendment 3 provides that the Government of the Republic may establish fishing opportunities at sea by sea by water area and for the first time in 2015 for the year 2015 in which the authorised annual catch is fished with a dredge. There are further technical and linguistic changes to the draft, which in no case alter its content. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on the Environment adopted the following procedural decisions: to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 June, which became 12 June; to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if it is terminated, to send the draft to the third reading by 18 June, when a final vote could also be taken. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U35	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Since it is late, I will ask briefly. Your report flashed through the term "Olympian Fishing." Is that something to do with sport fishing or what? Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U37	Yeah, it's a very athletic activity. The herring quota is common to fishermen and victory is being sought until the quota is exhausted. The problem is that fishermen have fixed fishing areas and herring arrives earlier on some fishing grounds where, for example, the competition may have been taking place for two weeks when others are being given a launch. But it will now be changed so that there is an honest sport in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U38	Thank you very much. Very interesting knowledge. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U39	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. The rapporteur from the Commission. My question is motivated by the previous question. You said that herring reaches different places in Estonia at different times. When you look at Estonia's coastline, how does herring reach Estonia, either from the north to the south or from the south to the north? Can you tell us that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U40	That's the answer I owe you. This was not discussed by the Commission. But as far as I know about fishing, the fish goes into warmer water earlier, which is in the lower part of Pärnu Bay. It's the kind of area where the water used to be warm.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U41	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Does this law only concern Kihnu Island?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U43	This law concerns all Estonian herring trappers. But the problems in the waters are very different, and all the fishing communities in the waters can decide for themselves whether they want to allocate herring quotas by caste traps or whether they want to continue to fish for the Olympics.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U44	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Commission, there was a representative of the Ministry of the Environment who was not convinced that this future law would help solve the problems in the long term. You think, I understand, it'll help you solve it. Why do you think things seem different to the Ministry of the Environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U46	Indeed, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have taken a different view. The objections were raised at the first hearing by Kaire Märtin and later by Mr Pigeon. However, these objections were very general, in their opinion, the allocation of herring quotas by pottrap does not alleviate the problems in the exploitation of fish stocks. They can be understood in this sense that when they look at the Gulf of Riga as a single stock, there is no difference in the conservation of the stock in terms of how a specific quantity is caught, whether by win or by crate traps. There is a difference between the distribution of income between fishermen, and this distribution should be fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U47	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! There is an important paragraph in this draft concerning the historic fishing rights of permanent residents of the small islands with permanent residence and the restrictions on its disposal. We in the Committee on the Environment added another restriction that the person to whom the transfer is made must have lived on the island for at least one year according to the register. Could you also share information on why we agreed a year, why not a longer or shorter period?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U49	Thank you for your question. People living on a small island usually have lower incomes. The wallets of the native of the small island and of those who bought a holiday home or a summer home there are sometimes of very different weight. It may happen that when the historic fishing right comes to the sale, it will be easier for people with Tallinn's income, for example, to acquire it. The second argument is specific cases where only one day has been entered for this occasion. The Commission considered how long the required period could be, how long a particular person should have lived in a small island in order to acquire a fishing right. I think the solution proposed is perfectly reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U50	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would like to ask whether, with our quota distribution, we have now reached a final solution or whether there is room for improvement in the future. It's been changed so much, but the quota has been divided by counties, by water, by sea squares. Now it's box by bitch. Is there room for improvement in the future, or has the ideal end result been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U52	I think that, thanks to this draft, the situation will become more flexible. It was at first reading, I didn't go over it. In the past, North Estonia was one of the fishing grounds from Läänemaa to Ida-Virumaa, and it may have been that the herring brigades in one of the counties caught the quota for the entire region. If this draft becomes a law, the fishermen will be able to reach a consensus across the waters and propose to the Government of the Republic how it is best to share the quota in this region. This, as was the request of the fishermen in the Gulf of Riga, is certainly not suitable for the fishing industry in Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U53	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps my colleague, Väino Linde, should specify whether the fishermen of Pärnu have asked the Estonian Olympic Committee to use the word 'Olympian fishing'. Anything related to the Olympics should have been authorised by the Olympic Committee. But that's it. In fisheries, the term "historical fishing right' is generally used. Shouldn't that be a little more specific? History doesn't really have anything to do with it. After all, these rights were granted just over ten years ago. When the general public is told about historical fishing rights, everyone thinks about what happened three or four generations ago. In fact, the historic right to catch began in 2002. Shouldn't we change that term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U55	I cannot say that this question did not arise during the procedure for this draft. Historical fishing rights were established in 2001. The idea was to give fishermen confidence that they had a certain number of fishing gear with which they could fish. On the other hand, this made the situation more difficult, as fishing rights for fish stocks were reduced by cutting the number of 'historical' gears. Historical fishing rights became the subject of trade and there were two aspects of the game. On the one hand, the fisherman had a historic right to fish with a very small number of gillnets. A five-net professional fisherman can't go fishing, but the costs are higher. Another negative aspect that arose is that fish dealers and owners of fishing industries have bought up historical fishing rights and fishermen have become relatively cheap labour. These are the two negative consequences that have emerged from the implementation of the historic fishing right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U56	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U57	I will continue with the questions of Tõnis Kõiv and Erki Arrow. Historical fishing rights were introduced in 2001. The official doctrine of the Estonian state is continuity, i.e. we are the descendants of the country whose existence in 1940 was terminated. Historical fishing rights are known to be based on the collective brigades and the link between the collective farms and, in the case of historical fishing rights, our aim is to maintain the collective farming regime forever. I'm not saying that one year is a surprisingly comical definition from the point of view of history. An Englishman who heard that another traditional festival was going to take place somewhere almost had to fall down dead, another cannot be traditional! And one year isn't history. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U58	Yes, Mr. Gräzin, you are absolutely right. Thank you very much for this reply. Indeed, when it comes to fishing with a pottrap, historical law is based on collective farms. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U59	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Was it discussed in the Commission regarding the limitation of the historic transfer of fishing rights on Lake Võrtsjärv?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U61	No, it was not discussed in the Commission. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U62	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U63	I thank you all for your interest in such an important subject for me at this late hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U64	Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. Three amendments have been tabled by the commission, and we will examine them. Amendment 1 from the Committee on the Environment, lead committee: take full account. Amendment 2 from the Committee on the Environment, lead committee: take full account. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U65	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U66	Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. There are 60 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee has taken full account of this. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 620. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U67	Agenda item 22 is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to address Jaanus Tamkivi, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed draft 661, draft law amending the Waste Act at its meeting on 3 June. However, the first debate on this issue took place in the Committee on the Environment on 21 May. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 29 May. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu within the deadline, but the Ministry of the Environment proposed certain amendments to the draft. They are, indeed, of a very technical nature and may not need a special introduction. However, as a result of the debate, the Committee on the Environment finalised eight amendments. They were all voted through in the Commission and adopted by consensus, which means that a full consensus was reached. Following the vote on the amendments, procedural decisions were taken. It was proposed to place a draft of 661 on the plenary agenda by 11 June, to close the second reading and to send it to third reading when the second one is closed by 18 June. There is also a proposal for a final vote on draft 661. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U69	Thank you very much. Please, Väino Linde, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U70	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you very much for your thorough presentation. But can you specify what will change from the point of view of the ordinary user after this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U71	In this very early morning, I would remind you that the aim of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste electrical and electronic equipment. This concerns, in particular, manufacturers and distributors of electronic equipment. There is very little change in the life of ordinary consumers. It just gets a little easier to return small WEEE. But the main objective is to better recover and recover WEEE. So the draft concerns legal persons rather than private consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U72	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I recently received a letter from my contractor's garbage company that he intends to empty my container once a quarter in the future. Imagine this trash container with a 30-degree heat in the summer, still a very pleasant piece of art in my yard! Does this bill somehow improve my situation as a citizen, so that my garbage company's car still goes once a month, as it's been?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U74	Honourable questioner! I understand your great pain, of course, but if you look at the agenda, the amendment of the Waste Act is on the agenda again today, and your question is more about this other bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U75	Any more questions? No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Jaanus Tamkivi. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. In order to amend the draft, the commission has proposed eight proposals, and we will review them. Amendment 1 from the Committee on the Environment, lead committee: take full account. [[In the diner.]] Mr Riisalu, we are currently examining the amendments. Amendment 2 from the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 3, proposed by the commission of directors, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, the lead committee, to be taken fully into account. Amendment 5, the lead committee, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 6, the lead committee, to be taken fully into account. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U76	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U77	Let's get ready for the vote. Mr Riisalu and the honourable Riigikogu! I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, which has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U78	I have a procedural question: what was the point of this vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U79	Kaia! Proposal No 6 is accepted. Amendment 7 from the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 8 from the Committee on the Environment, the lead committee has taken full account of this. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 661. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U80	Agenda item 23 is the second reading of the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech by Mr Rein Randver, member of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Spatial Data Act was on the agenda of the Committee on the Environment on 3 June this year. As a reminder, the first reading of the bill was on 21 May. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 29 May and no amendments were tabled at that time. As a result, the Commission's procedural decisions were as follows: to propose a draft of 652 on the plenary agenda by 11 June (in fact, we will discuss it on 12 June), to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 18 June, and then to hold a final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U82	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! How do you rate that little law amendment? Is this a more substantive or formal change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U84	Thank you for your question. The Estonian Spatial Data Act, adopted in 2011, is very comprehensive. However, the European Commission has properly analysed it and found two small points in which we do not meet the general requirements. These two requests from the European Commission are taken into account in this draft law. Now we should have a very perfect law on spatial data right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U85	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Rein Randver! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments to the draft law were received. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 652. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U86	Our last item, No 24, is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by Inara Luigas, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra. I would like to present a chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee, Erki Noole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable people in the hall! The draft law amending the Waste Act was initiated by Riigikogu members on 19 June 2013. The first reading was closed on 18 September last year and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 2 October 2013. Seven amendments were tabled by the Centre Party Group; the Committee on the Environment itself also finalised seven amendments. The draft has been discussed by the Commission on several occasions. The first time was 12 December last year. The next time there was a debate on 17 March, then on 21 April, 24 April and 3 June. On 27 May, there was also a meeting on the future of waste management, where representatives of the cooperation structures between the local authorities and the three regional authorities were invited. All these meetings were explained by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. The proposals for amending the Waste Act are as follows: The first proposal is to delete from § 1 (1) of the draft, which repeals § 66 (11) of the Waste Act. According to this, the shipment of waste may be organised in such a way that the sole customer of the undertaking carrying out the waste and the paying agent is a local government unit or a non-profit organisation authorised by the latter. In such a case, the obligation to keep records of and settle waste holders shall be incumbent on the local government unit or the latter's authorised non-profit association. Paragraph 67 (1) is supplemented by a sentence as follows: 'In the last case, the administrative territories of the cooperating local authorities may form a single transport area, taking into account the number of inhabitants of the region set out in paragraph 5 of this section. ' Amendment 3: In accordance with the first sentence of § 67 (1) of the Waste Act, the local government unit organises a service concession independently or in cooperation with other local government units in order to find the operator of the waste transport service, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Amendment 4: in accordance with § 71 (2) (2) of the Waste Act, the waste management code to be established by the local government council provides for "the prevention of risks to health and the environment from waste or, where this is not possible, reduction measures, including regular movements of municipal waste from the densely populated area at least once every four weeks and from the distributed area at least once every 12 weeks'. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft law complements § 71 (2) (2) of the Waste Act with the provision that the regular transport of municipal waste is permitted at least once every 12 weeks, in addition to the diffuse settlement area, in the densely populated area, where bio-waste treatment at the site is possible. The implementation of this supplement depends on the choice of each local government unit. The amendment drafted by the Committee on the Environment clarifies the wording of subsection 71 (2) (2) of the Waste Act in such a way that the text of point 2 is formulated in two sentences and replaces the word 'treatment' with 'composting' and 'potential' with 'guaranteeed'. Amendment 5 The Commission proposes to supplement § 1 (4) of the draft, supplementing § 71 (2) 21 of the Waste Act on the laying down of composting requirements for bio-waste in the waste management rules to be established by the municipal council. The inclusion of such a provision in the Waste Act allows the local government to implement the provision in section 1 (3) of the draft, which, if the composting requirements for bio-waste are met at the site of the waste, will allow the local authorities to reduce the transport of municipal waste to a single time in the densely populated area within 12 weeks. Amendments No 6 to 8 In the event of the entry into force of § 1 (1) of the draft law, the principle of legitimate expectations should be taken into account in the case of local government entities which currently carry out the shipment of waste pursuant to § 66 (11) of the Waste Act. Therefore, on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, the Waste Act is supplemented by § 1366 on the validity of waste transport contracts, according to which for the implementation of § 66 (11) of the Waste Act, it is valid for contracts concluded in accordance with § 2 of the Bill until 1 October 2014 (Article 1 (5) of the draft). The Act is also supplemented by Section 1368 on the implementation of Section 66 (11) of the Waste Act, according to which pending public procurement procedures and contractual procedures for the implementation of Section 66 (11) of the Waste Act are completed until 1 October 2014 and contracts concluded in these procedures are valid until their expiry date (Article 1 (7) of the draft). In addition, the draft is supplemented by § 1367 of the Waste Act on the frequency of shipments of waste, as proposed by the Environment Committee. According to this, the concession contracts for the shipment of waste concluded before 1 October 2014 are valid until the expiry of their term of validity with the frequency of the shipment of waste provided for in the contracts (Article 1 (6) of the draft). Amendment 9 proposes that the Committee on the Environment amend the draft by § 2 and regularise the draft on 1 October 2014. This period of entry into force shall allow sufficient time for all persons and bodies concerned to examine and implement the law. On 5 May this year, a working version of the draft was sent to the heads of all local government units and invited them to participate in the debate on the draft on 27 May, including submitting their amendments. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 June, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading. Some of the procedural moments. The Committee on the Environment asked both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the compliance of the draft with the Constitution and the amendments and effects resulting from the entry into force of the Act. In general, the draft is in line with the Constitution, Silver Sära, adviser to the Legal and Analytical Department, responded. There was also no apparent contradiction with the European Charter for Local Government. The state has the right to decide which rules local governments choose the waste shipper. However, it was noted that § 67 (1) should mention the reasons for limiting the formation of transport areas, if any. In addition, implementing provisions should be included in the draft. That is what the Committee on the Environment has done. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that § 1 (2) of the draft does not make clear whether the establishment of joint waste transport areas must also take account of the limit of 30000 inhabitants laid down in § 67 (5) of the Waste Act or whether the corresponding regulation allows the formation of an undefined transport area. In addition, it is not clear from the draft whether, if the transport contracts concluded with the carrier found in cooperation with the municipality cease to exist, the joint waste management area of the municipalities will also cease to be valid. They proposed to clarify these issues in the course of further processing of the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not see any interference with the Constitution. So much more briefly that the procedure for this draft has given rise to relatively many emotions. Most local authorities do not support this, but some individuals did. I am now arbitrarily suggesting that about 30 local authorities did not support the draft, four or five supported it. It was possible to reduce the frequency of transport to 12 weeks that gave rise to much discussion. Mr Aivar Riisalu has already asked about this in the debate on the previous draft legislation on waste. I will explain that local authorities are only entitled to allow the frequency of shipments of waste to be reduced if composting is ensured. That's all for me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U88	Thank you very much. A number of questions have been received. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U89	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. It's late and people are more open-minded. When we asked the chairman of the committee at the back of the hall what would be better for people with this bill, he said that nothing would go, but we would take something away from Edgar. Is this the customary practice of a committee dealing with drafts that specifically hit one of the municipalities the hardest? After all, it is to understand what Luigas, Laanet, Kaljuvee and Vakra had to do with this bill. But what is the Commission's intention to send this draft to first and second reading in this Chamber? Is it a common practice in the Committee on the Environment that one municipality is simply getting done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U90	It is certainly not the usual practice of the Committee on the Environment to do this to local authorities. The Commission has simply changed the regulations concerning local authorities in different areas. Yes, we also raised the same question on several occasions in the Commission as to whether we are doing the so-called Tallinn Act. Many other committees have discussed Tallinn law in various areas. Now, while explaining this story of the corridor arbitrarily, one of the questions discussed in the Commission was whether this change would make the waste shipment price more expensive or cheaper. Most respondents thought it would make them more expensive. Of course it's all very subjective, we don't know what to expect. But if we look at household expenditure at all, the waste shipment charge is not the biggest cost. However, my personal assessment is that the transport of waste will certainly be expensive. There are several reasons for this: one is the increase in fuel prices. Secondly, from 2020 onwards, we need to increase the collection by species under certain Euro Directives, so we need to start sorting more waste. It is more time-consuming and also more difficult in terms of transport. The remuneration for waste transport is likely to increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Erki, the rapporteur from the Commission. We have discussed this bill together and listened to the various parties. I'm getting the impression that the whole thing is being tried and played by some company. How can you comment on this from the side of the Commission? Is there such a small market sharing, or what does it look like to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U92	Very many of the drafts discussed in the Committee on the Environment concern the distribution of resources, either directly or indirectly. An example is the Forest Law and all that. We can make all kinds of connections here. Today, there are two major players on the waste market in Estonia who own 95% of the market, and one is a 5% shareholder. So there aren't a lot of waste shippers left. There were also some changes in ownership towards the end of last year. Life will show whether this change will lead to more small businesses or not, but it will certainly be harder to enter the small businesses market year after year. In waste management, it is the key player who manages the whole chain because it is much easier for him to participate in procurement and, at least temporarily, to offer a lower price than new entrants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U93	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U94	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft with one voice at the meeting on 12 June, as the Ministry of the Environment had to start developing a comprehensive concept for amending the Waste Act. Here's the question: why don't we wait for the Ministry's draft and solve the issue in its entirety? Do you know how to explain this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U95	Yeah, that was also the subject we discussed in the spring. But I think I've already said from this remote control that there's never anything concrete about politics. Sometimes some laws have to be passed quickly, sometimes some things are delayed a little. Yeah, the government of the Republic didn't support it at first. However, the Ministry has now slightly changed its assessment, and that is why we have moved on with the procedure. I forgot to mention in all this long presentation that in the last session we slightly changed the deadlines offered. The Ministry also supported the law's entry into force on 1 January 2015. It's the procedures that make this necessary. Local authorities must certainly introduce a composting requirement in their regulations, and time is needed for this. The capacity of municipalities to make regulations is different, both in terms of knowledge and in terms of ability to act quickly. At the last session, Mr Kõiv proposed that the date of entry into force of the law be brought from 1 January 2015 to 1 October this year. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U96	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Local authorities were known to be involved in the proceedings but were not taken into account. Was anyone else involved whose views were not taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U98	During the procedure for this draft, a large number of problems related to the shipment of waste were addressed. One of the arguments for initiating the draft was the fact that we do not currently have a complete overview of the waste management of local authorities. And when local authorities manage the shipment of waste, we cannot control, we cannot know exactly what we are actually paying for. Whether we pay a little for Tallinn TV or just for the shipment of waste. We do not know whether empty journeys or gate charges are included in the price. Thus five members of the Riigikogu proposed an amendment to give the Consumer Protection Board greater competence to control the provision of so-called tick services. Of course, when the local authority organises the procurement of the shipment of waste, it must certainly define more precisely what can and cannot be included in the conditions for the shipment of waste. Empty journeys are really a problem, but if there is currently a once every four weeks shipment of waste, the contract does not make any difference to the shipper whether it is a full container or an empty container that he is going to empty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U99	Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U100	The first part of the question was an emotional proposal. Certainly, the initiators should not be invited to carry out such an experiment. I also think it would be a very bad practice if all the drafts were to be subject to some kind of probationary period, and we would start experimenting on all kinds of things, for example, with amendments to the abortion law or to some kind of child protection law. May the legislator still confine itself to adopting or not adopting the draft. When this law is amended, each member of the Riigikogu can express his or her mind: he or she will either vote in favour of or against the adoption of the bill. So there is no problem in this regard, democracy works perfectly for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U101	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U102	I don't see anything weird about probation. A pilot project can be tested, they are always done if such a question arises. But now a question specifically for you as a representative of the Commission. As I understand it, the price of garbage is going to rise a little bit, but since it's not a big increase, we're just gonna suffer this legislative amendment. You have just offered that, at the moment, trash transport costs €31⁄2 and a little more expensive. Most of the local government representatives who attended you were against this legislative amendment. Why, then, does the Commission still allow it to be dealt with if it is harmful to the consumer and does not like the local authorities? So who are you doing this law for? It still smells like something, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U103	I will not go into such an arbitrary debate. One could certainly ask some local authorities why they agreed at first, after a bit of a different mind. Apparently, they read the bill several times back and forth and understood it differently. But it's really late, and I don't want to go on all kinds of scented and slippery roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U104	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U105	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I, unlike many previous speakers, am more of a supporter of this bill, but I do not understand why local government leaders should not confine themselves to organising a competition so as to find the best waste management manager. What are the reasons? Why must the municipality have the opportunity to deliver itself? What other services should the municipality have? As far as Lord Riisalu's fear is concerned, I finally got things done in Sangaste. I was also told at the beginning that I would be hauled once a quarter, but when I was in contact with them, I finally got an agreement with the waste shipper and I had a monthly shipment of waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U106	Life has shown that many things fit into place. But, yes, some municipalities feared that it would be difficult to organise a waste shipment in certain scattered areas. This is evidently revealed in the negotiations with the various waste companies, as many as there are left on the market. At the same time, local authorities may establish a common area covering different administrative territories and thus organise the procurement of waste. That should be one solution. Of course, as the local authorities pointed out, if the contract for the shipment of waste contains a certain number of containers, for example, that there must be two containers in a certain area, and these containers are empty, then private companies often do not respond to local government complaints, but people point their finger at the municipality. There are many such major or minor problems across Estonia and it is nice that Sangastes is doing well. Aivar Riisalu assures us that things are bad in Keila's parish, but in the elections, people have to show what they think. If the local government cannot cope with certain problems, then people have to go to the voting boxes and choose the officials who can.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U107	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U108	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, It is often the case that if you don't like the facts, you tend to manipulate them, turn them one way or the other. I'm talking about the percentage this time. Do you confirm that approximately 14% of local authorities, about 20% of whom were in favour of the draft, responded against the rest of the Committee on the Environment? So 86% of local authorities did not respond, in other words they have no position. And obviously, it's completely arbitrary and weird at all to speculate about what they might think. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U109	Yesterday, in fact, the day before yesterday, there was talk about the reform of local governments. We should not take all local authorities seriously in this context. In mathematics, it's very simple: put the original figures on what you want, and then prove what you want. If the original numbers are wrong, you can prove anything. I'm sure you and I can set up different numbers here after a pleasant conversation and do any mathematical work, but as a representative of the Committee on the Environment, I would rather not go into mathematics right now. I merely acknowledge that many of the local authorities who took part in the discussions opposed the further processing of this draft. Among them were several large local authorities. That's right. Of course, yeah, your figures are right at 200 we have municipalities and that so few responded is a very correct observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U110	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U111	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear colleague Erki! I sincerely thank you for the good answer you gave to my question on constitutional compliance. If you promise, I'll quote you. You said such words that the possible interference of the Constitution is not very intense, but legal nuances give room for interpretation. Does this not mean that in future procurements or competitions, or whatever they are, there may be legal nuances that cause disputes and then garbage companies to fight like seagulls over a dump, and the containers are empty? Should we not order a legal assessment from the Chancellor of Justice, whether the draft complies with the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U112	Thank you. With regard to the organised transport of municipal waste, the question arises from time to time whether a private individual should pay for a shipment where he does not actually give up the garbage, i.e. empty journeys. Was this also discussed and attempted to resolve this problem within the framework of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U113	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U114	With regard to local governments, I would say that it is not right to say that we do not take them into account. We took note of their views. We also wanted information on whether the changes we are proposing were in line with the Constitution. There is certainly no reason to say that we do not take into account the opinions of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu and the Constitutional Committee. We certainly do, and their comments have also been taken into account when making changes. But yes, the main proposals were made by the local authorities, and we really did not take them all into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U115	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The opinion has been expressed that this bill serves the interests of large companies and that hastens to do so in particular. Did the Commission mention the interests of which companies it could serve and that, in this case, it is a sense of corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U117	There was no such setting at the Commission's meetings at least at the table. If you want to know which companies we can talk about, as I said earlier, we have three of the strongest waste transport companies in Estonia, two of whom have 95% of the Estonian waste transport market. These are public limited companies Estonian Environmental Services and Ragn-Sells. But I repeat, the Environment Committee did not mention that we were clearing the market for two companies from other players. This is an arbitrary approach, but everyone has the right to develop this idea in their minds if they want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U118	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U119	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I ask: how is it possible to come to the Riigikogu with such a bill if it is not known whether the adoption of the law will make the price of garbage disposal more expensive or cheaper? How can that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U120	How is that possible? The purpose of the initiators of the draft measure was not to assess whether the price of the waste is cheap or expensive. According to the initiators, the draft could make the garbage shipment cheaper, especially in northern Tallinn, where the price of the garbage shipment allegedly increased by 30%. I asked two meetings of the Commission whether this was true. People living in northern Tallinn who were present as guests of the Commission claimed that the final price of what the consumer sees at the expense of the consumer went cheaper. One time they talked about 40%, the other time it was probably less. The good will of the originators is that the price of garbage can be cheaper. I have already said that my purely personal assessment is that our waste shipment fee will increase solely because, for example, if Nõmme is tendered for the shipment of waste and if there is an x number of houses and there is no advance notice of how many households want the waste to be exported once every 12 weeks, then the waste carrier must certainly add hypothetical losses to the accounts of all customers. And that makes the transport price per unit more expensive. Maybe this fee doesn't add up for those who order the 12-week schedule because they only need a car every three months. But those who order discharges every month will probably have to pay more. There is no other option, otherwise the shipment of waste would not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U121	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U122	It seems to me that you have not learned the substance of this draft. Across the world, when a private company is taken away from a city or municipality government, it is always clear that the price will be cheaper. That's why they do it. However, since you did not know how to answer that question, I will ask you a simpler question. Someone here said he had a suspicion that this law would be done for large companies. I have a request: try to explain that you will not do the law that you have been made to protect on behalf of large companies! Try, maybe it'll work!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U123	Mr. Lenk, you probably didn't listen to me. Looks like the question was premeditated. However, it may not always be the case that when a local authority starts providing some kind of service, it becomes cheaper. You are an old TVman and you know that Estonian Public Broadcasting also makes certain products more expensive than it could buy in exactly the same products. But to come to the request to prove that this is not done in the interests of two companies, I must say that it is very difficult for me to prove it. As I answered Esther Tuiksoo's question, everything is in the eye of the viewer. We can speculate about this, but we don't have to. In my opinion, when deciding and voting on all this draft, one question should be made clear to myself: whether a local authority could or could not deal with the provision of certain services to residents. That, in my opinion, is the key to decision-making. And we should not bring in the Tallinn case again. That is, I think, an ugly statement that we are always trying to make everywhere, that we have to make a bill because Tallinn is doing so or Tallinn is doing so. This approach to legislation is wrong, and when voting on the same draft, we should first and foremost consider whether local authorities have the right to provide certain services or not. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U124	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question relates to the first point of the bill, which you spoke about a little bit. It states that Paragraph 66 (11) is repealed. They've tried to explain it in the explanatory memorandum, but I still don't like it. I'd like to know how all these competitions are going to happen after the deadlines are over. That's part of the question. And second of all, did the Ministry of the Environment stand in its position to develop a complex variant?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U126	Thank you. I regret that there is no trial period for such draft laws to try to keep containers outside the garden of their initiators without emptying them for 12 weeks in the summer. How are they gonna take it? Maybe after this experiment, they'd think differently. However, unfortunately, the Estonian legal space does not provide such an opportunity. The initiators have said that the aim of the bill is to reduce waste costs. But why don't they go to the Consumer Protection Board, the Competition Board or the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U127	I'm gonna start at the back end. The Ministry of the Environment is still working on its complex option. Hopefully we'll see it in the fall. The first part of your question concerned the first point of the bill on the annulment of § 66 (11) of the Act. A change shall be made that the local authority organises the shipment of waste in such a way that the customer of the transport undertaking is the holder of the waste to whom the undertaking sends the invoice. For each client, therefore, separately. There must be no link in the form of local government. All existing contracts are valid until the end of the contract period; the law does not have retroactive effect. The law will be in force on 1 October when it is adopted. But all the contracts that have been concluded so far are valid until the expiry date. My personal assessment as a citizen is that this disposal of waste within 12 weeks is bullshit, at least in a densely populated area. We may be able to show that we have composting, but if we have a family with small children using diapers, I don't know how hygienic it is or what the neighbor thinks of it when the container is opposite his garden and the container containing the diapers is not emptied in two or three months. That's my personal opinion. And I personally do not like the amendment proposed in the first paragraph of the same draft on the repeal of Paragraph 66 (11). It's such a cognitive question of whether or not it can be done. During the discussions, many questions have been asked as to why the local government may own, for example, a sibit barrel or car, but not a garbage truck. We can certainly argue about this deadline for 1 October. If we really wanted to achieve the objective of this draft, as the initiator meant, then the law should start to apply in the normal manner after it was published in the State's Official Journal. Then it would make sense. Local authorities, on the other hand, postpone their summer holidays, organise the necessary procurements and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U128	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U129	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. I would like to clarify a matter for the sake of the verbatim and also for the sake of the hall. Your presentation gave the impression that most local authorities were against this bill. In fact, that is not the case. The Committee on the Environment sent letters to all municipalities, i.e. about 200 municipalities, asking for an opinion on a specific draft. The answers came in over 20, less than 30, the magnitude is this. Of these respondents, one fifth was in favour and the rest opposed. Therefore, it cannot be seriously argued that the municipalities which did not express their views oppose this draft. Rather, we can say that since they did not express their views, they are neither in favour nor against. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U130	Unfortunately, I do not have the answers of all the local authorities on the table, so I cannot tell a good colleague how many local authorities said yes and how many said no at the moment. I think the percentage of supporters was rather lower. Some supported certain points and others did not support them again. So those who supported something didn't support the whole bill either. Yeah, we got about 200 municipalities, most of them didn't answer. But all the major municipalities, all the major cities was opposed to Tartu, Tallinn and Pärnu. Not Kohtla-Järve, it was the only major cities that supported further processing of the draft. Not all the other major cities supported. If that answer satisfies my colleague, that is all I am going to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U131	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U132	Thank you. Mr Vice-Chairman of the Commission. I will still come back to the previous question. We met on several occasions in the Commission. Why don't you tell me, though, how many were estimated for those who came to the table, and how many were among those who supported the bill? Can you give me some approximate numbers, please? It is clear that our legal department had to support the bill, but we are talking about the expenses and daily work of those directly affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U133	Let's not get so arbitrary. The Legal and Analytical Department certainly does not write opinions in order to support or dismantle any draft legislation. The department is still based on legal aspects. We asked if the bill was in conflict with the Constitution. There are certain problems, to which the Legal Department also referred, but they did not see a direct contradiction with the Constitution. However, this is a legal text that wants to read one out of it, reading one out of the other, reading it out. As far as the percentage is concerned, on 27 May, when we had a round table meeting with representatives of a large number of local authorities, 90% of those who had come to the table, perhaps even 95% did not support the law amending the Waste Act. But at least one gentleman supported. So if anyone cares, that's the percentage. But I will come back for a moment to Tõnis Kõiv's question of how to approach the matter: whether those who did not show up support or do not support the draft. It's such an egg and chicken question, and all I can say is that those who were there didn't support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U134	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U135	Thank you. I share Mr Riisalu's concern about the regularity of the garbage transport. The new amendment also gives the right to carry waste less frequently in a densely populated area and may indeed be considered under certain conditions. The legislative amendment states that this can be done in such a case and in places where composting of bio-waste is ensured at the source of the waste. Was there any discussion on how and who controls and evaluates whether composting at the waste generation site is guaranteed or not? And where exactly is there supposed to be a compost spot in every household? How and by who?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U136	It is up to each local authority to decide and, by their own regulation, they can lay down the conditions governing this procedure. In particular, the local authority should carry out the checks. Yes, we know that this will certainly increase the administrative burden on the municipalities. Why did local governments object to the inclusion of this point in the law? One reason was that, if the law also allows 12 weeks, many citizens immediately demand the right to a 12-week schedule. The local authorities fear that if we sign it into the law, the person will take it as his right to have the garbage transported every 12 weeks. But when I come back to your question, I will explain once again that the local authority must lay down in its regulation the conditions for how far and how far it must be from the compostbox. After all, each municipality has its own specific characteristics, for example, in Tallinn Nõmme, Pirita and all other parts of the city are slightly different, even if the size of the plots is different. I think it's a big job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U137	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The rapporteur from the Commission. First of all, Tõnis Kõiv's perverse view that the municipalities who did not participate in the debate were in favour of the draft. It is roughly the same interpretation that people who did not participate in the elections love the Reform Party. On the question of my benchmate, Esther Tuiksoo, the argument was that this bill is like a draft in support of a company. It is now obvious that the chairman of the committee Rainer Vakra is doing the business of one company, specifically Ragn-Sells. As Vice-Chairman of the Commission, would you be willing to assume the responsibility of the chairman of the committee when he deals with the affairs of one company outside the lobby rules in your committee sitting and in Parliament's Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U139	Now I should use the reply from the classic committee rapporteur that we did not discuss this in the committee. But if you're interested in my judgment, I can tell you about it in the buffet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U140	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I actually like the answers you give as your personal assessment of this bill. Trash transport should be a matter for the local government to decide and regulate. Did you also discuss the fact that this bill is, in fact, an intervention in the autonomy of the local government? It seems that these are the political interests of certain individuals. Please comment on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U142	Yes, one of the main arguments of the opposed local authorities was that it was a violation of their autonomy or their rights. If we look at waste management in different countries, it is organised differently. In Germany, the majority of waste transport is organised by the local government. We had a change in 2007 under pressure from certain companies so that local authorities could do the same. Urbo Vaarmann asked about the analysis of the Legal Department. Let it be known that they also analysed the 2007 amendment. Then they didn't see that it was against the Constitution, so why should it be now? But once again, this is a matter of principle. Local authorities found that their fundamental rights were violated. As I said here half an hour or a little more time ago, it's a matter of feeling. The members of the Riigikogu and the various political parties have a different understanding of how certain things can be handled in Estonia, whether or not local governments could also have an opportunity to engage in entrepreneurship. That is the fundamental question. I don't want to bring the corruption opportunity we've had a couple of times today. Waste management may be such a literally stinky area, but it should not be allowed to be very emotional and stinky in the Riigikogu Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U143	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Erki! The waste really stinks, but the money doesn't smell. However, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu has found in its opinion of 10 March that it is doubtful whether the measure proposed in the draft is compatible with the Constitution. Indeed, different parties and representatives of different parties may have different opinions which do not make matters any clearer. It is not good if there is doubt as to whether or not the proposed amendments are compatible with the Constitution. Are we, however, justified in discussing a draft that lacks clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U145	If this barricade is not very intense, then generally we are not in conflict with the Constitution. If we were to envisage amending the treaties currently in force, we really should discuss more whether or not the draft is compatible with the Constitution. At the moment, I believe that this barricade is not so intense that it means a contradiction with the Constitution. So I do not think that this should be the main aspect of the procedure for this bill. Yes, the Cities Union has sent a comment to the Committee on the Environment referring to the evaluation of the former Chancellor of Justice, who, representing the Cities Union, referred to the constitutional problem. Every lawyer has an opinion. We have several laws that the current Chancellor of Justice considers one thing and the previous Chancellor of Justice thought the opposite. Unfortunately, legal nuances are those that give a great deal of room for interpretation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U146	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! There is one thing I have clearly understood in the answers. Once a month, when the garbage is transported, it becomes more expensive than it is now. And since I'm carrying trash once a month, I'm supposed to be in the fungus forest if I voted for this bill. In this case, when introducing the names of the initiators in Kakumägi, I should explain to everyone that waste disposal will soon be more expensive, because honourable citizens have initiated such a draft. But what gets better, I still haven't figured it out. I've realized that garbage is going to be transported less often, and it's going to be more expensive. But if we're gonna make some kind of law, we're gonna have to think about what's gonna get better in a person's life. Can we make this short?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U148	I asked the exact same question in the Commission from the various parties and the answer was that the system would become clearer. You know who's billing you, and how much something costs you, it's a short answer. There are no intermediates. However, if you come back to the waste shipment fee again, the average household waste shipment fee is 3 to 5 euros per month. Surely it will not be a very painful blow if the price may be 5% or 10% higher. This is not the price that knocks consumers down. During this draft procedure, we also discussed many other problems in the area of waste. We wondered if this law could solve the problems of the maintenance of municipal waste plants, for example. After all, storage charges have disappeared and the local government no longer has any income from them. Ultimately, however, I hope that we will be able to take the matter forward in the autumn when the Ministry of the Environment has come up with a comprehensive concept of developing waste management.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U149	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U150	I will answer briefly. I don't think you need to ask the Chancellor of Justice for an assessment anymore. We have received two sufficiently competent assessments. So you don't have to do this anymore. It is common practice in Estonia that certain procurements are contested. I too lived in the city of Tallinn when there was a transitional period and the garbage was not transported for three weeks. I have faced this problem and I think that one of the main problems of the waste companies is that they do have an information phone number, but they seem to have forgotten to put it behind the phone. People don't have much of a chance to use it to solve problems. We have also discussed all of this in the Commission and passed it on to the waste companies. But now the market has more or less settled and, at least in Tallinn, there are no major problems that people's garbage cannot be removed due to disputes. Yes, there are individual cases that the new driver does not have a gate key or the like, but from a citizen's point of view, the waste shipment service is generally much more human-friendly than it was some time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U151	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It was also said that in the first phase the Ministry of the Environment did not support this draft. That's the first stage I want to ask you about. Do you remember what arguments the Ministry of the Environment had not to support the bill? Can you bring it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U153	Now we're gonna have to do some digging in the recent past. One reason was that the Ministry of the Environment is drawing up a complete waste shipment plan and, in doing so, it is also discussing the 12 weeks in which the Health Protection Board sees problems. The Ministry of the Environment initially drew attention to a similar problem. So there is a problem, but if the local government can draw up a proper regulation and composting and sorting is guaranteed, it can give that right. Hopefully, then, it will not bother our fellow citizens if someone rarely lets the garbage be transported. I'm gonna jump to the procedural problems one more time. The members of the Environment Committee and the Ministry of the Environment have received letters from people living in different regions. There are not many of them, but five to seven letters are sent per year, the authors of which confirm that they do not generate waste at all and should not be obliged to join the mandatory shipment of waste. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am a real opponent of such an exemption. Unfortunately, I have to say that when you read the pages of local governments, where municipalities report their council decisions, we see that very often people are released from the obligation to conclude an organised waste shipment contract. At the same time, we can see that in municipalities, containers of packaging, paper and glass run over the edge and are not regularly emptied. In my opinion, with this release, municipalities are doing themselves a disservice because some people without a contract are dragging garbage into the forest. I'll come back to that 12 weeks. A representative of the City Environmental Board of Tallinn recently referred to the problem of the recent occurrence of garbage planted near bus stops and on forest floors in areas of individual houses. This concern was expressed in the comments of the local authorities as well as in the comments of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U154	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I do not understand what objective Mr Kõiv wanted to achieve with his questions, but I suggest that we continue with mathematics. Suppose 51% of potential voters took part in the Riigikogu elections and the Reform Party received 33% of their votes, or 17% of all possible voters. This means that 83% did not support the Reform Party. Does that give us the basis to tell us that they are losers, that they have to give up power, etc.? If this logic does not work in the case of elections, how can it work in any other case? People have been given the opportunity to say their point of view, but if there is no answer, we cannot draw conclusions on what they are thinking. Isn't that right? All that matters is those who have answered, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U156	The Prime Minister may therefore be suggested that, since they are not supported by 83% of Estonians, he could resign. You can make this proposal if you follow the same logic. However, I do not think that it is necessary to use such arbitrary mathematical techniques when dealing with draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U157	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U158	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Despite the early morning hour, let me refer to the joint address of the seminar of the Estonian Municipal Economy Association on 20 March this year to the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu. It states that the draft explanatory memorandum refers to the prices of waste shipments that are becoming unreasonable due to the implementation of Paragraph 66 (11) of the Waste Act. They ask why and on the basis of what evidence such a provision is included in the draft. The question is whether local governments have taken their practice into account interests other than the environmental interests of their inhabitants. This joint visit was certainly discussed in the Commission, and I therefore have a question: why has the opinion of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities not been taken into account? How was the Commission justified not to respond to the criticisms of local government representatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U159	This question can be answered both politically and not so politically. In fact, the parties raised this issue on several occasions. One explanation was that local authorities had not read the draft law thoroughly. They have not fully understood its meaning and wording, and their doubts-suspects are not competent. This was broadly the answer to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U160	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U161	Then you have to do it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of this proposal, against 45. The amendment was not supported. Quiet during the vote, Aivar Riisalu! The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The ninth amendment, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The Commission has proposed to conclude the second reading of draft 455. The Centre Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading of draft 455. This proposal must now be voted on. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Central Party Group to interrupt the second reading of 455. Please take a stand and vote. There are 18 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, against 46. The proposal was not supported. The 455 second reading of the bill is over and today's session is also over. Closure of the sitting at 2.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It's some night of memory, and I reminded you of how, 15 years ago, two pigs were brought to this castle. Farmers were not happy with agricultural policy, and I remember those pigs shitting all over the place. I mean, for 12 weeks, there's a bio-waste container next to an apartment building. There's green pigeon-sized flies flying out of there, and there's rats nesting there, like a cat. I understand that all the initiators of the bill live in their houses, they don't live in apartment buildings. Do they even imagine if you asked them what kind of counterattack might be if the housing associations found out about this possibility? Who's gonna suffer that smell and all that dirt? Aren't you afraid that one day the castle site will be full of containers, so there's nowhere to park cars?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U163	Good Mikhail, I've been to Ida-Viru County a lot for the last three years. I haven't seen any green pigeon-sized flies in there. And I'm not afraid that the scene of our castle will become a waste dump after this law has been passed. It's not that bad. But about the smell and other inconveniences, you should ask the initiators of the draft, as well as whether they live in an individual house or from panels in a floor house. However, as we know, floor houses must have a container of biodegradable waste that is regularly emptied. So the issue of your question doesn't concern the emptying in 12 weeks, doesn't concern the floors. This proposal still applies more to individual houses, where apparently one of the initiators of the draft has spent his childhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U164	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U165	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In view of the procedure for several months of this draft, it can be expected that you could also discuss the composting requirements for bio-waste in the Commission. Living in an individual house area, I have been in contact with composting biowaste and its side effects at various levels. In the Commission, did you seriously discuss what could be done by the municipality or the owner of the same private house against rats and parasites? What may result is visible. I've never seen green pigeon-sized flies, but the rats the size of a cat are still in Nõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U166	Cat-sized rats were really in Nõmme and Pääsküla in the 1980s. I don't know the current state. I have no information on the management of waste shipments in the 1980s. Yeah, we had this subject. But this is where the local government's right, the possibility, the obligation, how someone wants to take a look at whether a certain density of waste management in the area is causing bad consequences, such as rats and other pests. If this proves to be the case because of the change, the local authority has the right to stop the shipment of waste at such a frequency.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U167	Kaia Eva, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U168	Thank you. I have a procedural question relating to the question of a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin. Not with where he went into zoology, but with where he talked about mathematics as science. And my question is, is my comment that his conclusions in the field of mathematics and logic do not have much to do with reality a procedural remark?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U169	No, it's not a procedural remark. Thank you, Erki Arrow! I'm opening negotiations. Rainer Vakra, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U170	Good night, ladies and gentlemen. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I was motivated by the fact that, on the one hand, it seems to me that some of the questioners did not quite understand what they were asking for, and that the Commission's rapporteur also answered his personal assessments in the way that early morning thoughts brought him into his mouth. We have been working on this bill for almost a year. The draft was initiated when Inara Luigas, Rainer Vakra, Kalle Laanet and Lembit Kaljuvee were members of the opposition. We have repeatedly organised round tables and various other debates within the framework of this draft. It has been argued here that in one debate everyone opposed the draft. On this point, I can say that, as chairman of the committee, I invited all those who had previously informed the Commission that they were against this draft. It would have been a miracle if someone at the beginning of this round table had taken a supportive position. There are two very fundamental proposals in the proposal. Firstly, it should result in a lower price; the second result is environmental friendliness. First of all, I'm gonna say a few words about them. There is a need to address a situation where, since the entry into force of the municipal waste transport regime, people's interest in collecting waste by type has been reduced and reduced. We all know this question to sort out when we have to fill the garbage disposal by the end of the month. It is now mandatory to have a waste bin filled in four weeks. In order to continue to value the sorting of municipal waste, local governments will have the opportunity to extend the delivery range to 12 weeks from autumn when we adopt this law. This procedure is developed by each municipality itself. This gives the municipality, the municipality manager, the city, the city manager the opportunity to reduce the waste collection bills specifically for people who sort waste and compost bio-waste. The possibility of having the container emptied less often means real savings for everyone. Garbage transport gets cheaper, ends with the end of every month it's reasonable to cross-cross a container with all kinds of stuff, because it'll be emptied at the end of the month anyway. Change number two. I am pleased to quote Kalev Kallot, who in the course of the debate asked why something had to be changed. He lives in Haabersti and is satisfied with the service because he only pays 3.60 a month. A hundred percent agree! The primary condition of this draft is that nothing changes in this sense, that prices will continue to be understandable and that they will emerge as a result of the competition. All companies, including those created by the municipal authorities, can participate in the competition. For example, Kihnus is a municipal company that also participated in the competition. But when a municipal monopoly is set up, it certainly does not mean a cheaper price. I am surprised by some people's conviction that municipal monopoly or any monopoly automatically means a lower price. The law must protect the person, not the other way around. The current law's hole allows non-citizen municipalities to create a waste disposal monopoly and to set prices that are not subject to any market logic. This is a hidden trash tax that I, as a resident, cannot refuse. The purpose of this draft is to put an end to all kinds of Soviet heritage. At that time, too, the State set prices at its own discretion. An artificially established municipal monopoly with opaque pricing must not be the future of Estonian waste management. It is important to stress here that, if you wish, all municipalities can still organise the transport of municipal waste independently, in cooperation with the neighbouring municipality, for example by authorising a non-profit association or foundation. I repeat: the only change is that a sub-unit of a municipality cannot charge the residents a commission to cover its activities. Today, Tallinn is only in Northern Tallinn to implement this system, but the intention is to extend it over the capital. The form of cooperation without hidden garbage tax is used elsewhere in Estonia, be it Valgamaa, Hiiumaa and Kohtla-Järve, for example. A good example is the Centre for Waste Management in Central Estonia, with 28 municipalities involved. All these municipalities can manage without the application of the garbage tax, without additional revenue from the commissioning activities. Two golden rules must apply to ideal waste management. First, whoever pollutes pays, and second, when the head takes, the wallet gets a break. There has been a lot of talk here about who has been the ones who have supported this bill. I repeat: NGO Kesk-Estonian Waste Management Centre, all of Valgamaa, in addition to the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Waste Operators' Association. We have 215 municipalities and there are those where cooperation is carried out, where non-profit organisations are implemented, all over Estonia. For them, the change basically means nothing more than giving municipalities more flexibility to support people who sort, compost and behave in an environmentally friendly way. A fundamental change is the abolition of monopoly municipal mediation, which selects the waste manager on the one hand, the carrier on the other, and adds development costs to the account. This development cost should not have been the result of sucking a pen in the private office, but thanks to the competition. The local government's own companies can also participate in the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U171	Valeri Korb, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that the time is quite late and the sun is soon to rise, I would like to talk about a few thoughts about this bill that we have been discussing with you here for a long time. The draft under discussion only deals with a marginal part of the waste law and everything would be fine if this draft did not appear to be the active lobby of the waste shippers, which would result in a breach of the autonomy of the municipalities. The draft proposes repealing Paragraph 66 (11) of the Waste Act. Under this paragraph, the shipment of waste may be organised in such a way that the sole customer of the undertaking carrying out the waste and the paying agent is a local authority or a non-profit organisation authorised by the latter. In such a case, the obligation to keep records of and settle on the holders of waste shall lie with the local government or a non-profit organisation authorised by the latter. According to § 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act, one of the local government units is responsible for managing waste management in the municipality or city if this task is not assigned by law to anyone else. In a situation where the local government takes over the provision of services and the conclusion of a contract with waste holders, the local government has undertaken to carry out the management of waste under the Local Government Ordinance Act. The draft has been analysed by the lawyers of the Soraainen Office, who considered that the draft constituted an intensive interference with the autonomy of the local government. In their opinion, the draft explanatory memorandum does not indicate whether less stringent means have been considered to achieve the objectives, which would guarantee the protection of consumers' rights and, at the same time, would not seriously undermine the autonomy of the local government or break the functioning of waste management. The repeal of Paragraph 66 (11) of the Waste Act may result in the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises being undermined in the interests of large companies. The Supreme Court has explained that companies have no constitutionally protected right to require the state to intervene in order to protect them from excessive competition and to ensure their market share. A solution has now been found in section 66 (11) of the Waste Act, where the local government provides direct service to its customers, which would apply in Tallinn, for example. In addition to the city of Tallinn, a considerable number of local authorities wish to choose this solution, and we know that. The fact that the local government provides waste transport services as a vital service is a common practice throughout Europe. In the Nordic countries, local authorities predominantly provide this service by purchasing the waste transport service and owning the facility. In the rest of Europe, the waste transport service is provided through the local government's own companies. This draft aims to end this European approach to waste management in Estonia. The Centre Party Group cannot support the draft in this form. For us, the autonomy of the municipality is very important. The level of waste management in Estonia has also steadily increased in the last five years, so there is no need to break down the current system. In addition, draft 668 on the implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act also provides for the amendment of the Waste Act. The Centre Party Group therefore proposes that the second reading be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U173	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is not supported by the Ministry of the Environment; it is not supported by the Association of Estonian Cities; it is not supported by the Estonian Association of Rural Governments; Tallinn does not support it. I can assure you that the city of Narva will not support it either. We have rather sad, albeit somewhat interesting and even funny experiences of how the waste management situation developed over the years. Every time these very steep steps were taken, Estonian municipalities were in a crisis situation. For example, about ten years ago, we were told that new landfills would be created. We were suddenly informed that a new dump in Uikala would be working in six months. It is 50 kilometres from Narva, and the third largest city in Estonia must carry its garbage there. We would have drowned in trash at the time if Minister of the Environment Villu Reiljan hadn't arrived. He looked and examined the state of affairs and made a decision that allowed us to use the Narva landfill for another two years if memory did not deceive me. Then it was said that when the city became richer, it would erect a monument to Villu Reiljan, a golden bust. We're not rich enough yet, but some of us still remember people who really did great things for Narva. That's what we missed. However, someone's initiative would have ended with a disaster for the city. After a while, another surprise awaited us. Perhaps someone who worked in the municipality remembers how it was reported in 2005 or 2006 that each municipality must have one waste sorting plant. And it was so strictly worded that some of the stupidest people actually started working on it. Two municipalities in Estonia set up a waste sorting plant. I'll tell you who they are: they're Narva and Pärnu. We built that sorting station in time, we got the European Union money for it and we used our money to co-finance it. But what did the government do? It has become clear that only two municipalities across Estonia have a sorting station and others do not have it, he simply changed the law and said that he did not need it. And there's no need to sort waste! It's just that if you have two in place of one container somewhere and you tell us that there's sorted garbage in one and there's some bio-waste in the other, or something like that, let's take it into account that the waste is sorted. We did everything we had to do. Oh, how many problems there have been with this sorting station over the last few years! This year only ended the time when we had to report every year on its use. But how much that gave you a headache! Every thoughtless step in this area shakes the local authorities in such a scary way. The rapporteur on the Commission's side said here, and I understand that no one is arguing that the situation is more or less normal at the moment and that the fees for the removal of waste are marginal. You could even say that if it grows by 10%, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Why, then, do you need to stick your nose in a process that goes more or less normal? Who needs it? That's why I came here to say a few words. Sometimes it's better to leave the way it is when the system already works. Yeah, there are cons, but this stupid initiative that's trying to show care can turn a normal process upside down. For God's sake, colleagues, let the Ministry of the Environment, where there are enormous specialists, deal with garbage disposal problems! And the second argument: if our colleagues were qualified garbage disposal managers, their talk would affect me, but, as we know, they are not. So leave the Waste Act alone, let it be dealt with by the appropriate authorities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U175	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U176	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised to see that so many of you have a bright eye and a clear eye at this hour in this room. Yes, the four authors who came up with this bill have grown out of the Centre Party. The Centre Party has also raised politicians in the past and sent them to one party or another, and it has always diversified Estonia's political landscape. As far as the draft laws are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a piece of work. We do not have to weld our law together and force it through. I understand, for example, the reform of incapacity for work. There are a number of officials back there who have to demonstrate their work to two ministers so they can get paid and maybe get a bonus. I understand that the new Child Protection Act was welded together, which is no better than the previous one, but it is much thicker. But look, as far as the garbage business is concerned, yes, maybe there are flies somewhere, they're the size of a pigeon, a sparrow or a wasp, and also rats are more or less a natural phenomenon in the city. But none of you have ever seen a real dump. You don't know what that is. I've seen it, I saw it in a wonderful place like Buenos Aires, Argentina's capital. Argentina is a wonderful country. Buenos Aires is a very beautiful and huge city with wide prospectuses, monuments and cemetery with Evita Perón mausoleum. And there's the old harbor town of La Boca, with little wooden houses and narrow streets full of taverns next to each other. Very good Argentine rum is offered in the inn and a great street tango is danced in front of them. Everyone's just dancing tango on the street! It's a beautiful city, and I saw it during a garbage strike. It was disgusting what was going on in there! The city was just full of garbage. Large, wide prospectuses and narrow Old Town streets were covered with a proper layer of garbage. There was waste in black bags, in cardboard boxes, just like that. The city fathers tried to defeat the chaos. They have a warm climate, by the way, with all sorts of creatures of very different sizes. And not only mammals and flyers, but also lizards, snakes and other pretty dangerous beasts. The city tried to hire homeless people, many of whom were children. Sorting was done at night, in this warm, dark night in Argentina, somewhere next to Río de La Plata, a silver river. By the way, one of Buenos Aires' possible meanings is pure air. So it should be a clean city. And then the kids sort out the garbage. Tear up cardboard boxes, cardboard into one pile, some biodegradable waste into another pile, something else to the third pile. And we tourists, when we went from restaurant to hotel, we had to climb over piles of garbage and step over the little little local shabby kids who sorted it all. You haven't seen anything like it. Don't touch the system that works! The city is like a human organism, it has its own bloodstream. Just as a person has a bloodstream, the city has water pipes and power lines. Don't touch the city's bloodstream, don't touch the city's blood vessels, and don't stick your finger in the city's butthole if it's already functional! 'Cause otherwise, you guys are gonna get dirty, and it's gonna be trouble. Don't touch the city's waste management, and everything's fine! Find something else to do! You are capable people, and we will support you, but we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U177	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U178	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the draft law that we are currently dealing with is of fundamental importance to all of us, I cannot leave the speech that has just flowed from a good colleague to last. It's for the simple reason that I want to remind society that this has happened to me. I recently received a letter from my garbage company telling me that my trash is now being moved once a quarter, or once every three months. When I asked, colleagues started laughing at me in the wrong place and said that I should have a smell when the garbage wasn't taken away. In fact, colleagues were right about the smell of garbage. Today we once again stated that the narrow circle of initiators of the draft, who have escaped from the Centre Party and are seeking their identity from members of the Riigikogu, obviously has not received enough recognition in their new domestic parties. That's how they started a bill. As former city officials, I am thinking, above all, of the principal advocate of the bill, they probably have a thorn in their souls, and now they are trying to make garbage transport better. But is it really that way, only the ancient god in heaven knows that? It is sad that, in the last seven and half years, when I have been sitting brightly in the opposition of the Riigikogu, it has occurred again and again that the most exciting drafts that are directed against one local government in Estonia are the ones in our capital. On the one hand, it is a pleasure to note that my home party has ruled the capital all this time and, consequently, has ruled so well that power parties have to throw themselves at Tallinn from time to time. They might even be right sometime. But I don't think they're right all the time. And worst of all, they certainly do not have the right to resolve matters by such methods. The right men do things differently: they sit at the table and try to make a deal. It is clear that waste management is an emotional business industry worldwide. We all know that in a great country like Italy, and in New York and Chicago, for example, the garbage industry has always been in strange hands. And it's starting to tear a little bit in Estonia. I know more than I can say from this remote. Let's be honest, the smell they tried to put on me is something to feel about this bill, and it's sad. It is sad that the parliament of the Republic of Estonia is dealing with draft laws that smell too strongly, and the worst of all is that we are dealing with these drafts completely sincerely, because they have initiated a rather narrow circle of people who may also smell themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U179	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. A total of nine proposals have been tabled to amend draft 455; we will start reviewing them. Amendment 1, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U180	I would like to vote on Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U181	Thank you. If so, it must be done. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Centre Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Centre Party Group, has been rejected by the commission. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U182	I would like to vote on Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U183	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start today's briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 37 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 64 are missing. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Defence Minister Sven Mikser and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi participate in Question Time. Yesterday, five members of the Riigikogu announced their wish to ask. I will say right away that two more people can ask for more in the hall for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U184	Let's get started. The first questioner is Margus Tsahkna, who has a question for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U185	Dear Chairman, Good Prime Minister! As Minister of Social Affairs, you have prepared a labour capacity reform and now, as Prime Minister, sent it to the Riigikogu to discuss. This reform has raised a great deal of questions and a great deal of opposition from people with disabilities. My first question is: what is the objective of the reform with regard to people with disabilities? How many people with disabilities are going to get into the labour market, or how many new jobs should be created for these people in the course of this reform? And secondly, would you describe how, for example, one person with 80% disability will move into the system as a result of the reform? What procedures does he have to do, and how does he finally get a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U186	I'll start by reading a quote, and then we'll all be able to guess who I'm quoting. 'Today's disability system is unsustainable and does not rely on the need for people to participate actively in society and the labour market. This is a change in the philosophy of the basic system of incapacity for work, which, through active social and labour market measures, aims to help people who have so far been excluded back into the labour market. Giving the chance of self-realisation, supporting personal motivation, and thus improving the economic situation, is the aim of this reform. " Very well said. That's what Margus Tsahkna said when he was the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and I was the Minister of Social Affairs. I agree with every word in this quote. Work capacity reform provides opportunities for people we do not currently offer these opportunities. And the total number of people who are either partially or entirely absent and who are not in employment is about 65,000. The total number of people with missing or partial capacity to work is 100,000, one third of them working, two thirds not working. And of these two thirds, or about 65,000 people, around two thirds, or more than 40,000 people, almost the town of Pärnu, people want to work. And in order to provide these people with services, solutions, opportunities to improve their health, the work ability reform has been put into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U187	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U188	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Indeed, this great goal is stated, but you could not explain how the life of a disabled person in real life looks after the reform of working ability. I'm asking about jobs. It is clear that the reform of the capacity to work will create almost 500 new jobs in the unemployment fund as a country's creation. But how do you create other jobs for 40,000 people? As compared to the current measures implemented by the unemployment fund, nothing really changes from the point of view of entrepreneurs and people with disabilities. There will be no new measures under the reform programme for businesses to create jobs for people with disabilities. Why should employers create jobs for 40000 disabled people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U189	It is incredible how much Margus Tsahkna's views have changed in the last few months! I remind you once again of the quote you've read and the conversations we had a few months ago. But there are, of course, many of the concerns you referred to. These issues must be properly addressed and clarified. It is not true that no additional services are offered to employers. We will be able to reimburse 100% of the unemployment fund for all the additional costs incurred by the employer in recruiting a disabled person, thanks to the labour capacity reform, also using European Union money. This may include, for example, the purchase of special conference equipment so that the work of the hearing person can also be done in a specific conference or conference room. This may mean building an invalid stand, which may mean purchasing a special display for a person with visual impairment, which could mean a thousand other options, which the employer will incur additional costs if he hires a person with special needs. The purpose of all of this is one: if the employer has two or more people who are otherwise completely equal, he must not have a situation where he says that I would employ a disabled person who has very good skills, but employing him will cost me more because of the one-time investment that I need. This inequality is being eliminated by the reform, and I think it will really improve the situation for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U190	Margus Tsahkna, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U191	Thank you. My views have not changed. I think that people with disabilities really need to be helped to find work, but this reform is simply poorly prepared when it comes to determining the form in which it has been presented to us. Therefore, it is also understandable why the Prime Minister has not actually answered any of my questions. But that's the charm of Question Time. My third question concerns those who care for disabled people at home. So these are the perceptive caretakers with tens of thousands. They are generally healthy and trained people who are excluded from the labour market because the state and municipalities are unable to provide sufficient services in their homes. Unfortunately, the work capacity reform has passed by these people; they are not provided with services. The Social Welfare Act is not recommended to change with this aim and the issue of municipalities is not addressed. What message do you have for these people? After all, they have more responsibilities because the person they care for now has to go somewhere to be judged in the new capacity for work? Caregivers, however, could be in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U192	It seems to me that with the reform of our working capacity, you think we should solve all the social problems in Estonia. In itself, this is a noble goal, unfortunately, even this very big reform does not have this ambition to solve absolutely all the problems at once. As far as carers are concerned, you rightly said that the provision of services to them is a separate issue. After all, their own capacity for work has not been reduced in most cases and the services they need are different from those for people with special needs. At the same time, you are wrong to say that we are going to take all the people we care about into the labour market by applying the activity requirements. I would point out that family carers take care of people who need help in their daily routine. It would be inhuman to assume that people with such severe disabilities can go to work. Some of them can work, but it's more of a supported job. However, we want to offer solutions to this kind of work. At the same time, the work capacity reform is addressed primarily to people who are not able to work, but who are still able to work and interested in it. We know that the lion's share is either mentally ill, severe bone and joint disease, or physically disabled. But we certainly do not expect all those who are now being cared for by their relatives to have to go to work on a compulsory basis. If you understand that, then you have misunderstood the idea of reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U193	Honourable Riigikogu, I must probably repeat what I said at the beginning of Question Time, that the questions registered on the spot will fit into today's Question Time two for each of the main issues. Those who react more quickly get that chance. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U194	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Reform Party has been in power in Estonia for almost 20 years in a row, but I don't remember you ever speaking with tenderness about people with disabilities. We have ridiculously low disability benefits, maybe we should say no. And now I'm going to ask what happened. Who stung you that you began to worry about people with disabilities overnight and try to pass this law at extra sessions? Terrible sums of money put into the game are €350 million, which is a very large amount. Is the goal suddenly to transfer money to the unemployment fund and confuse everything so much that, in the end, no one can understand where the money is going and who can get help? I feel like I'm looking into the future. Overrule my opinion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U195	If we have tens of thousands of people who want to be active, want to work and participate more widely in society, but we have not offered them solutions, I think it makes sense, at least now, to start working on this subject. Dealing with this issue makes sense, from a human point of view, from a desire to help our neighbours, and from the desire that society as a whole should be healthy. We need to accept and understand that there are many people living among us whose health is worse for one reason or another and who need additional support, but who, in the same way as everyone else, can be active members of society. This is very important for a person's self-realization and helps to cope with his or her own. In addition to this very human aspect, the capacity of Estonian society to support people with disabilities must also be taken into account. Can we afford to tell some people not to come to the labour market? So what if you want to, but we won't let you into the labour market? This is also a very important aspect. If we have more people in employment, if we help more people who are currently sitting at home because of disability, then there will also be more social tax. Other taxes will be charged, but social tax will also be collected more. More money is directly transferred to both the pension fund and the health insurance fund. I think that this is, in a very rational way, an economically very sensible reform, in addition to this human dimension.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U196	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U197	Thank you. Prime Minister! This reform would make sense if it were to do so. But the problem is, I won't. The research company Saar Poll has carried out very thorough research and, as a first obstacle, has pointed out that there are no necessary part-time jobs. In yesterday's public session, there were people, among others, who said that they were quite skeptical and did not see employers ready. The employer still wants to benefit, he is motivated to employ a healthy person. They also mentioned the state subsidies in question, but this social security contribution by the state is limited. They don't see any results. They would like people to have access to employment support. What do you think of that, and what do you say to employers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U198	You know, the thing is, if we don't try, if we don't try to find solutions, it's definitely not going to work. If we cry collectively here and say that nothing can be done to help people with disabilities, there is certainly nothing we can do. I think we need to take the view that we are doing our best together to help. To help not only the specific people to whom this reform is intended, but to help the whole Estonian society to become healthier. By helping people with disabilities, we also help ourselves because our society is healthier and Estonia is a place where it is better to live. I agree that we do not have enough information at the moment on what can be taken into account as a result of the work capacity reform. That's why we need changes. Yeah, right now we don't have part-time jobs. Yes, at the moment we do not have enough money to pay employers to invest. Yeah, we don't have enough rehabilitation services. You have asked me that many times, and you are right that we have not been able to pay enough from the state budget to people who have been rehabilitated. Now we get an additional source of rehabilitation services and people's health improves. I repeat, if we do not try, we will certainly not be able to do anything. I believe that we have reason to take this matter very seriously. I do not agree with Mr Leng, who said that this bill should definitely be adopted as a law at further sessions. That's a goal I've never set. Rather, I think that Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs, but why not the whole Parliament could work every day for the summer to make this draft even better. Make concrete proposals! And take into account that there will be a second draft, which already specifically addresses services, rehabilitation opportunities and tools, in addition to this draft. This bill will certainly come to Parliament before the big summer, and you will be able to deal with it. Only in the autumn will we believe that the draft is ripe for adoption as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U199	I'm sorry, Aivar Sõerd and Jüri Jaanson, but I will stop looking at this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U200	The next question is for Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U201	Thank you. Minister of Finance! At the beginning of the year, you sent a letter to the ministries concerning the need for cutbacks for the coming year, 2015 and a year later, by 2016. The cuts were quite specific in these letters. The Ministry of Education has to reduce its budget by 14 million euros compared to this year's budget, the Ministry of the Interior nearly 10 million euros, the Ministry of Social Affairs 6 million euros, the Ministry of Culture 5 million euros and the Ministry of Economic Affairs 5 million euros. What's the status of these plans now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U202	It was a proposal to review its costs, which is always appropriate. So much of the position that the previous government abandoned the goal that we had, and the new government has not returned the bar to the same height. It is also logical in this sense that we have here, with your help, a plan for the reform of public financial management, which gives the Minister of Finance and, in general, the government a legal basis for ensuring fiscal sustainability, which we are doing. There's no need to hold a big buffer or create a lot of tension. Of course, we are attentive, and one of the expressions of this attention has been the proposal every year to review its costs and to tighten up the old ones in order to make new ones. Always some part of the cost is getting old over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U203	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U204	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You were also Minister of Finance during the previous government coalition, and then you thought that EUR 55.8 million would be missing from the exemplary budget next year. According to the forecasts at the beginning of the year, which were more optimistic than today, you found that EUR 59.7 million would be missing in 2016. Now you're saying that the new coalition has changed the rules. Eesti Pank is also saying today that the new coalition has relaxed its approach to budgetary balance. Would you specify how you will be able to ensure sustainability without a budget being drawn up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U205	I'm sorry you have questions written, but you don't listen to answers. This coalition has not relaxed its goals. The previous coalition was relaxed, which, for some understandable reasons, gave up the high goals it had set itself in a situation where there was a legal guarantee that the Minister of Finance and the government could make painful decisions without being forced politically. Of course, it is the government's decision. But so much of the current situation that this EUR 55 million has already been dealt with in various activities. I cannot tell by heart what part of this amount is adequate, whether it is plus or minus, but we have taken a number of measures with the current government, as the Prime Minister has said here, which will significantly improve the budgetary position. To recall the last autumn, when the previous coalition was in office, our minus, which we could not do by then, but what the Minister of Finance was justified to demand, was about 186 million. Within a few months, we received a reduced amount of 55 million in hard work under the administration of the Minister of Finance. Improving financial management is quite a day-to-day and somewhat hidden activity, but clarifying costs and using money effectively does not necessarily mean that we are directly cutting our final spending. For example, we have a plan to improve There is no need to provide each minister with a maximum margin for the use of the European Union's budget money, which can be kept to a lesser extent when it comes to large sums of money. It's known that everything happens when you co-finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U206	Thank you. One minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Kadri Simson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U207	Thank you. I believe the speaker is so kind that he will allow the questioners to ask questions in two minutes. So much for the minister to answer, I'm very interested in hearing your answers. But that doesn't mean I don't appreciate a different opinion than yours. Eesti Pank has expressed the view that the fiscal balance of the government sector will deteriorate this year and next year due to the weaker economic situation and the relaxed fiscal policy of the new government coalition. Eesti Pank's economic forecast published today promises 0.7% this year for economic growth in Estonia. I recall that the previous government coalition that adopted the budget forecasted growth of 3.6% when preparing the 2014 state budget. How does the new economic forecast affect the state budget this year? Would it not be appropriate to give up the reduction in income tax, which obviously puts the budget under pressure? Would it not be appropriate to eliminate the 1% reduction in income tax and also to eliminate the tax increases that are currently planned in the summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U208	Definitely not. It is still a structural improvement of tax policy that we have undertaken. Eesti Pank is not brilliant about everything. He has clearly not been brilliant in budgetary matters, and this piece of work I can boldly criticise because I know more about it. We didn't file it, but like I said, the last coalition gave up this high bar. I would stress that he had this justification to reduce the surplus buffer, that the basic state budget law had given the government and the Minister of Finance a legal guarantee that the law would not allow overspending by force. This is a whole new situation. Thirdly, Eesti Pank has not taken into account that we have taken action, and not in the form of tax increases, their share is marginal, but in the form of reducing and abolishing inefficient tax exemptions, which is certainly the best source of money, and in the form of improving tax collection. We have a series of measures, not only at the legislative level, but also at the level of the executive, which are now giving rise to the claim that taxes will be passed on. This is not a guaranteed situation forever, there will be sneaking schemes alongside scams. But a very powerful weapon as an annex to the VAT return we still have not yet launched and its benefits are likely to be greater than we modestly hope. So it's working. It is not the case that we do not take into account the proposals made by Eesti Pank; they coincide with ours in the main directions. But we have to admit that they have not been the most brilliant in this labour law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U209	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Yesterday in this Chamber during the debate on the Road Act, I asked you twice about the use of budgetary resources, which you responded to the first time with misleading information. When I asked for a comment on the second point to be specified, you rejected the question and did not want to give a substantive answer. Instead, you said, "Let men come, and let women not inherit such things. " In our party, it is common for everyone to ask and may not ask, there is no coercion either in the same direction or in the opposite direction. And that is why I am asking this question: Minister, do you agree in a friendly way that you will answer all the questions from now on, regardless of who is asking whether you think the person asking is appropriate or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U211	I think we've always been friends. We can confirm that on Facebook. But that episode yesterday was because you went to the door to get a question from Juhan Parts, who didn't dare come to the hall. I reacted to it with a line on why he's getting behind his skirt. I'm happy to talk to you, but I've never seen Juhan here in the last few months. We said hello last night in the hallway, but to come and debate in the hall, it's not. He's able to argue in the media somewhere or the mouth of women. And the hat off, that you're such a strong woman and that you're keeping that kind of company together. Hat off, thank you! You usually have a good idea of things yourself, but as the leader of the group, call him to order, let him always be a man and come to the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U212	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U213	Thank you, manager. I hope that the coalition of the IRL and the Reform Party, which has generally already ended, will end once again in this Chamber. We have already heard in several briefings how they behaved, what they said to each other and who thought something. But it's history. At the moment, I would like to say that, unlike the Minister of Finance, I have no doubt about the ability of Eesti Pank to make forecasts. At the end of the year, you can see whether they were wrong or not. Minister, are you still convinced that this year's state budget will survive and that it will not have to go around?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U214	Let's make a deal. You're not gonna shake your head right now. Please listen to what I'm saying! I don't know what it's coming from, but you always start shaking your head. I have no doubt about the ability and right of Eesti Pank to predict the future. I drew attention to their weakness in assessing the past and present. They simply do not know the circumstances that have already been and which are running. The collection of taxes confirms that the measures taken are working and are working on a reserve. In any case, we consider that a more recent forecast is more pessimistic than the previous one, that we must be vigilant. But the reasons I have already mentioned allow me to believe them with a certain choice. In the forecast for the future, they are certainly experts in evaluating the present and the past, and this is precisely about fiscal policy; they have not always been blameless.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U215	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U216	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U217	Thank you, manager. Minister, the chairman of the party! My question concerns the reform of working capacity. In particular, your party's premiers ♪ Marju Lauristin, Heljo Pikhof and Minister Helmen Küttt have previously called this reform very unsuccessful. But in this case, it is more important than your coalition's mutual struggle that the reform succeeds and is accompanied by a positive result for the people of Estonia. How, however, did your party's representatives say that the draft work capacity reform did not go anywhere before the government meeting, but a happy consensus was reached at the government meeting and the draft was approved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U218	Thank you for a good question. I am neither current nor former Minister for Social Affairs, but, of course, the reform of working capacity is such an important issue that the Minister for Defence can also be asked about this. I want to reassure you: the working capacity of the government coalition is quite sufficient to move forward with the reform. I believe that in addition to the draft already sent to the Riigikogu from the government, the second draft, which concerns the rehabilitation part of this major reform, will arrive at the meeting of the Government in the near future and then before the Riigikogu. The reform is comprehensive and the related drafts are labour-intensive. This is confirmed even by the fact that, if I am not mistaken now, but according to the work plan of the previous government coalition, I apologise to Mr Tamme that I, too, should have referred to the previous government coalition, the reform package should have been in front of this Chamber a year ago. Well, it took longer, then it took longer. Better to do well, so the plan will work, than to do in a hurry and badly. The Social Democrats have always said that the life of one bill certainly does not have to end with the approval of the government and the referral to the Riigikogu. It must come to a new phase where Parliament, with the involvement of all parties, will hold the necessary meetings and make the necessary amendments. We really do have a whole bunch of questions. Some of them probably overlap with the questions of Mr Tsahkna, who has left your side to date, how to ensure that there really are those jobs where people who have partially lost their job capacity can go to work, how all the necessary supporting services are guaranteed. We, of course, ask these questions, but we also offer answers. We do so here in the debates in the Riigikogu through our parliamentary group. I am quite convinced that this necessary reform will receive Parliament's approval as a draft, which is better and more complete than that of the government. I respect and believe in a parliamentary state.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U219	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U220	Thank you. My question is addressed to you as a member of the government. I'm sure you're qualified to answer that as a party chairman. It is a great pity that you Social Democrats have not actually been able to defend your previously stated positions in the government. But I ask you what are the red lines of this reform that the Social Democrats will certainly not retreat from. Could you bring them out specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U221	With your permission, I will begin my response as Secretary of Defense. In defence policy, foreign policy or diplomacy, it is not considered wise to cement myself into a corner and say that I will certainly not do that or that. We have said what we want to do during the procedure on this draft. We want to find solutions to the issues relating to support services that are necessary so that people who have lost some of their capacity to work, who want and are able to work, can actually do so. This concerns services from transport to sign language interpreters for my sake. We would like these issues to be resolved once this bill is adopted in this Chamber. But as Secretary of Defense, giving you advice on these matters, I might even go a little against the principle of separation of powers. This draft has already gone from government to parliamentary proceedings, and Parliament must now find solutions with its own forces, of course, involving experts from outside, which will really ensure that there are others, not just a number of advisers at the unemployment fund. The fact that fewer posts are lost in the Social Insurance Institution as a result of the reform than they are created at the unemployment fund has been pointed out. At government meetings, we took a big step down in relation to the estimated costs of consulting one of the advisors. I believe we are moving in the right direction here. As regards the implementation of people with partial working capacity, the unemployment fund itself should set a good example in this regard. He could also look very seriously at people with partial work capacity, thus setting an example for both the public and the private sector, when he would be able to set up counsellors' seats. But, of course, an example is not enough. I believe that a concrete package of measures is actually needed, and in developing it, the government is ready to come to the Riigikogu to support it. Let us work out this package together to really create jobs for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U222	Andrus Island, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U223	Thank you. On the other hand, it seems that your party is in a very difficult situation. Of the two ministers in the social field, Mr Kruuse, as if this topic is not yet well-spoken, Minister Helmen Kütt, who has previously dealt with this matter a lot, would have been muzzled. Yesterday there was a public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, where the Minister, as the representative of your party, never spoke up and did not think of anything. Who, after all, is the head of the labour force reform? Is the fate of the reform only in the hands of Minister Kruus and the Reform Party? Who of the ministers is specifically responsible for the success or failure of this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U224	Thank you for your condolences, but in fact, our party has found itself in a pretty favourable position where, as part of the government, we can have a strong influence on the country's development in many areas. If you consider it a better situation to be where your party has ended up in the last few months, then it is certainly a matter of opinion. You have a right to think so. As far as the work capacity reform is concerned, as I said, one draft has already reached this hall and it is to curate the Minister of Labour and Health, Urmas Kruus. But, of course, as with all drafts and policies, the government bears collective responsibility. You called your stand-by position. However, as Minister of Defence, I cannot regard myself as an outsider when it comes to the reform of working capacity. I think that, as a member of your Committee on Culture, this important reform should not be seen as an outsider. Some of the rehabilitation package. The Social Minister Helmen Kütt is certainly responsible for this in the government. But again, this is not an individual responsibility. The government's decisions are consensual and collegial, and the whole government is also responsible for the success or failure of reforms. The Members of the Riigikogu, of course, who decide to vote against the draft in the final vote may reduce themselves somewhat of responsibility, but they too should be prepared to take full responsibility and make responsible constructive improvements, improvements and other proposals, the content of which should not depend very much on whether they are in the coalition or in the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U225	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U226	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! The news of my departure was obviously exaggerated, I'm still in line. I ask you, however, as the chairman of the party, so there is no way you can hide behind the position of Minister of Defence. I respect the Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Hunter, who really shares social issues through and through. He has said very openly that with the Reform Party, he basically disagrees on the reform of working capacity. There is still a great deal to be done in this plan regarding the organisation of social welfare and the restructuring of the rehabilitation system. Without this, it will not be possible to implement the labour capacity reform. I am asking you, as the chairman of the party, whether you are confirming here today that, if this draft is adopted, the reform of working capacity will really help people with disabilities to get a job and that this reform will be well done in this sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U227	I welcome you to our ranks on your return and share your enthusiasm for the competence and personal qualities of Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Hunt. As chairman of a party belonging to the coalition, I can indeed confirm that, of course, our aim is to adopt this law in the Riigikogu in such a way that it ultimately helps people with disabilities to get a job. This must really make it easier for people who want and can work for the first time to return to the labour market. And their social situation must improve, not deteriorate, as a result of this reform. This is certainly a worthwhile reform. The reform, as such, has been recognised in one way or another by the representatives of all political parties in Parliament, especially those dealing with social issues. It is clear that instead of simply paying disability benefits, it is wiser if the country is actively involved in creating employment opportunities for people with disabilities. Of course, no reform that is being carried out in the country must be aimed at making people's situation worse. Of course, every reform needs to improve people's lives, and this is also the goal of the reform of working capacity. And, as I have already said in answering your fellow Member's questions, it is certainly possible in Parliament during the procedure, and it is also necessary to make this draft even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U228	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, there is an opportunity to ask you about a rather general issue, namely reforms. Before your party became one of the coalition partners, you handed over a very large number of draft laws here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which you yourself called a democracy package. You have always promised that democratic processes will progress in a positive direction: more involvement, more listening and legislation will be very transparent and very carefully analysed. This week, however, we were in this Chamber in a situation where items concerning the Committee on Monetary Affairs were included on the agenda of the Riigikogu, the discussion of which had not ended in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Is that your understanding of good democratic practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U230	Good questioner! If, in replying first, I balanced on the border from the point of view of the separation of powers, I would certainly take a big step over this border by starting to answer the questions concerning the preparation of this week's agenda here in the Riigikogu, whether in the committee or in the large Chamber. I believe in Parliament's self-regulation. In carrying out all its procedures, Parliament must remain within the limits of the law, in particular the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, just as the Government must remain within the limits of the Government Act when carrying out its work. If you have disputes in this Chamber about the enforcement of the law that is relevant to you, you do not have to take a stand or give direction to these disputes by the Government of the Republic or its members. I firmly believe in democracy and I stand for democracy to develop at all levels. One of the most important principles of democracy is the principle of separation and balance of powers, which does not allow me to give you any hints of compliance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U231	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U232	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today we have the first reading of the draft amendment to the excise law in the large hall. You have said before that everything is fine and that the price of natural gas will only rise by 1% as a result of an increase in the excise duty rate. At the same time, the government you manage will prohibit the use of special fuel oil for heating purposes, which will mean a 38% price increase for people who use this type of fuel. Do you think this appreciation is normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U234	We have talked about this repeatedly in Question Time, but once again I assure you that households using light fuel oil are going to receive investment support, which will allow this very expensive and very polluting type of heating to be replaced by a less environmentally polluting and cheaper type of heating for the household. In the longer term, families can save quite a lot of money. We are also planning to implement more measures, which are particularly relevant to apartment buildings, but I also hope that the insulation of private dwellings will be carried out. Energy savings can significantly reduce heating costs. Unfortunately, fossil fuel prices do not tend to fall funnyly, regardless of government policy, including excise policy. However, we can save energy, invest to use more sustainable energy solutions. That is what we should strive for together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U235	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U236	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The Government originally planned to cease using specially labelled liquid fuel as early as 1 January 2015. Fortunately, the Chancellor of Justice put his hand between him and gave people six months of grace. At the same time, as we have heard from you, any support measures are only at the level of the idea and there is a high probability that there will be no additional support instruments. It's just that you're redistributing the money for the insulation of apartment buildings. Hence the question: why have you still taken up the poor people who use fuel oil to heat their home? Wouldn't it make sense to develop support measures first and then start raising prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U237	If we look at the amount of energy that is planned to be spent on heating Estonian homes over the next few years, we will see that this is a very significant amount of money. For the insulation of apartment buildings alone, EUR 102 million is planned, plus EUR 78 million for the reconstruction of boiler houses and heating pipelines. As regards support for the replacement of household heat systems, we are not talking about the same size classes, as there are much fewer families with light fuel oil coatings. The precise measures to support these households in the transition to greener and cheaper technologies are planned for the third quarter of this year. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is responsible for this and they will probably find a reasonable solution for bringing investment grants to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U238	Lauri Laasi, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U239	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I get the impression, though, that you don't expect everyone to rebuild their heating system. The explanatory memorandum states that the assessment of the impact of the draft has taken into account that after 1 May 2015, 75% of the users of specially labelled fuel will be left with the old solution. So 75% of users of fuel oil still have a 38% increase. Is this supposed to help fill our state budget, and are we supposed to be among the five richest European countries at the expense of these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U240	The explanatory memorandum to the draft law is never an order. The explanatory memorandum assesses people's expected behaviour. Here it is relatively conservatively predicted how many people use the investment support provided by the state and replace the fuel they use. My personal recommendation to everyone is, of course, to use this opportunity to make sure that, at the current prices of light fuel oil, it is not able to compete with other types of heating. Sooner or later, we're gonna have to make this shift anyway. The time when households are not heated with diesel oil in Estonia is probably no longer far away. In the explanatory memorandum, this transition has been conservatively predicted, and I hope that there will be much more users of this support measure. In any case, I suggest that we do so, because it is not reasonable to use light fuel oil at the current prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U241	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U242	Thank you. Prime Minister! While we're talking about home expenses, there are very important costs associated with electricity. As a liberal, I believe in a liberal organisation and a large open market. In the electricity market, we have taken very strong steps in this direction by opening up this market and removing market barriers by installing two electric cables in the Gulf of Finland. Does the government have any further steps in this direction and do you share my view that the best price designer is a free market rather than a redistribution of resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U243	We all remember the time when the opening up of the market caused great fears. The Centre Party held many meetings under the windows of Juhan Parts against it, and true, for a short time it meant an increase in prices. But this was not because we were going to have a free market, but because we did not have enough energy connections. Now that Estlink 2, the second submarine cable that connects our electricity network to the Finnish electricity grid, has been freshly completed, and prices, oh surprise, have fallen considerably. The electricity price is currently at a completely comparable level to the price it had on a regulated market a few years ago. Electricity is considerably cheaper in Estonia than in Latvia and Lithuania, thanks to very good connections. The question was what the next steps of the government could be. The most important steps from Estonia's point of view have been taken by building Estlinks, but our interest is certainly to ensure security of supply and a competitive price for our neighbours as well. The following project is therefore the construction of the third electricity line in the Latvian direction. On the one hand, it means greater energy security for Latvians and, on the other hand, the possibility of obtaining cheaper electricity, but thirdly, it also means that Estonian electricity producers can sell more electricity towards Latvia. So the next step will be to build a power line in the Latvian direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U244	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U245	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! My question concerns the increase in the excise duty on natural gas. If one household uses natural gas for heating this year and uses it in the same amount next year, will its domestic costs increase or decrease after the increase in excise duty decided by the government next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U246	Thank you. Excise duty accounts for a very small proportion of the total figures for natural gas. The planned increase in excise duty affects the household's gas bill by about 1%, which is less than the forecast increase in the cost of living as a whole. Gas duty also has its own economic logic and the logic of guiding its consumption. On the one hand, we know that all the gas used in Estonia comes from a single source. And any energy consumption has 100% dependence on a single source always has a problem. Secondly, gas is a fossil fuel. I am convinced that in every country, therefore in Estonia, both tax policy and general government policy must encourage the use of more renewable energy sources alongside fossil fuels, energy sources that leave a smaller ecological footprint on the environment. I repeat, the effect of raising gas excise duties on the gas bill is very small, but this change of message may still send that families who still choose the source of fuel when they set up their home would seriously wonder whether they would choose a fossil fuel, be it gas or diesel oil. There may also be alternatives that are more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U247	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U248	Four minutes to the end of Question Time. This assumes that Tõnis Palts must be able to ask quickly and Jürgen Ligi must respond quickly. Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U249	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Jürgen Ligi, please respond specifically because there is little time! The coalition has submitted three significant drafts to the proceedings. The two draft laws concern additional taxation on the use of cars by legal persons, while the third concerns tax changes in relation to specially labelled fuel. There is also an increase in gas excise duty. According to these explanatory notes, the tax burden on businesses will increase by at least EUR 70 million. In your opinion, do these future laws reduce the competitiveness of Estonian business, leave it the same or increase it? I ask for a specific answer, not an answer like the king of Tallinn's fools!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U250	What is better for competitiveness, an unreasonable cost tax credit or an improved tax structure? I am saying that a reduction in income tax, which is a greater victory for a company, is a positive step. It is bad, however, to encourage unreasonable costs and the use of fossil fuels that will never end when it comes to excise duty. You said that the tax burden on business is increasing, for example, because of the taxation of private car use. It is not business taxation; it is private taxation. This is certainly hampering unreasonable car purchases, the main incentive of which has been that it is twice as cheap in terms of total costs. So it's not a digital issue, the tax structure is a more complex thing and cost sustainability as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U251	Sorry, Tõnis Palts! Riigikogu Question Time is over. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U252	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the meeting of the 17th working week of the VII plenary session on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palole, on bus traffic. At the beginning of May, the Saare County Government announced that from s. a From 1 September there will be a new regime in Saaremaa: people in smaller places must register in advance for bus transport. In this regard, many questions have arisen for people living on the section of Kihelkonna and Mustjala. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to pass on this question, we hope to get a concrete response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U254	If this inquiry meets the requirements of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it to the addressee. No further drafts or inquiries will be handed over. Incoming check, please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing. First of all, since we did not run out of agenda at the end of yesterday's plenary session, the agenda on your tables has been specified, which we have changed according to how the Riigikogu Board has decided so far on such occasions. The agenda has been specified in such a way that we continue with the point that was left yesterday, and after that there will be third readings, then other readings and first readings. Siim Kiisler, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U255	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not give you the opportunity to specify the agenda in this way when the weekly agenda is approved at Monday's session. Paragraph 53 (1) of the Law states that the agenda also includes the order of the questions to be discussed. You can't just randomly change it at your discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U256	The Riigikogu has so far acted by consensus that if the agenda for the Tuesday sitting is not completed, then on Wednesday it will continue in such a way that the item that has not been discussed comes first and then third, second and first readings. But since I understand that there is no consensus on this issue, the President of the Riigikogu takes ten minutes' break and you will receive a new agenda for your tables. Then we proceed as the points are confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U257	Honourable Riigikogu! The break taken by the manager is over. I hope you have come to terms with the agenda. If I may help you a little, there's a sequence that starts in Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U258	Last day we failed to read the first reading of the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 681. And it was left to answer questions. Peter Laurson's the first to ask today. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U259	Thank you. With this bill, the government will withdraw nearly EUR 25 million from road maintenance. To what extent and how does the government plan to compensate road traffic damage to road users?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U260	Thank you for your question. But I'm sorry, as far as I know, the agenda was confirmed as it was on Monday. So we are discussing the law of tea, and the law of tea does not take away from the roads or give them a cent. This is not a budget law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U261	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U262	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary of Finance. Yesterday I asked you why none of the proposals made by the Union of Estonian Cities have been taken into account. We're talking about an annex to the explanatory memorandum to this bill. You said that it's only natural for them to want money, that they have an interest in getting more money. In order to be clear what logic you use in your dealings with us, I will ask you a follow-up question. Please name one of the state budget institutions who have no interest in obtaining more money. Maybe it's the Ministry of Finance. Or someone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U263	I repeat that it is natural that the Cities Union wants more money, and it is natural that other institutions also want more money. It was a completely neutral statement and comment on the fact that you presented. But to highlight positively someone who really does always have a conscience in budget applications, apart from the Ministry of Finance, which unfortunately has to set an example, the Ministry of the Environment has always done well. And that is whether there is a minister named Jaanus Tamkivi or Keit Pentus. This has been a very pleasant continuity. Indeed, they are asking for sums that are affordable for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U264	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U265	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. On the basis that the state budget is now becoming very flexible and, at the same time, considering the coalition agreement, which is intended to take EUR 25 million out of road storage facilities, I ask the following. Minister, can you confirm that this is the maximum amount you will take away? If there's a big hole in the budget, don't you take more money out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U266	Once again, nobody takes money off the road. But there are people who give money to the roads, and I'm one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U267	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U268	Mr. Minister, this is a good play of words for you that no one will take away the money. Practice has shown that if no specific money is foreseen, a major dispute may arise every year. You say, for example, the roads are fine and you don't put any more money in it this year. Hence my question: are you satisfied with the Estonian roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U269	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Sometimes I notice that the road is being repaired, which has simply reached a certain date, and at the same time I often see that the repairs are going to be very late. So it's so and so. In general, however, I am of the opinion that roads have been one of the fastest developing areas in Estonia; this progress is clearly visible. And the power for us to keep it that way!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U270	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I do like this bill, and I hope that the next year's budget really will have less money on roads than it was this year. This is because when we look at how we operate in the road economy, there seems to be a situation in many places that money is more than reason. Our road engineers and officials should be forced to act in such a way as to make better use of the money directed at roads so that they do not repair unnecessarily and using the wrong technology. But what do you think, if these things work out, could we restore the relevant percentage later?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U272	I don't really agree with your radical assessment. However, I do agree that when money is guaranteed, there is an unstoppable run-in, and there is also a legal obligation to always allocate a certain amount, then projects become less efficient and tend to excesses. But now the question of whether the percentage will be restored, I really very much hope that this stupidity will not be done. This is a very wrong approach if some of the routine lines of public budgets are financed so that someone gets a lion's share of a specific tax. We have a small number of taxes. We need to make choices when using the money they receive in a thousand cases. And we're talking about freedom of choice right now, not taking away money, not making holes. We know very well that no compromises must be made in the area of road quality, and also that road financing has increased and is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U273	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U274	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My question is inspired by the speech of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Urve Palo, on Monday. The question is this: has this cut-off amount been taken into account in the possible reduction resulting from the amount of euro money? As we know, the amount of euro money depends on the level of self-financing. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U275	You are financed by the European Union. We have a general budget for roads, and the law provides for 75% of the amount received by excise duty. However, this does not mean that money has a label on it that it is the excise euro that must go on the roads. That is the question of flexibility. The amount is important, not the source. It is silly to say that excise money is being put on the roads, but not income tax or EU money. This is stupid! The link is rather the opposite: if we raise excise duty, then driving will decrease, and that does not mean that more roads will have to be built. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U276	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U277	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You know very well that we have problems with the so-called transit routes that pass through the territories of the municipalities. Their maintenance and repair are generally on the shoulders of the municipalities. But these roads are of international importance and their burden is quite high, which is why they wear out faster than normal roads. For example, there are five such streets in Narva, almost downtown. How do you assess whether, in future, the municipality and the state will find a compromise on this matter? The state should still have a direct interest in maintaining these routes with the municipality. Or is it on the hands of the local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U278	Thank you. I fully understand Narva's concerns, this is really a transit corridor. But Narva is not the only city with transit routes. These money-sharing schemes will be reviewed. But I will not assume this role to say what concrete changes should be made to the road development plan. I'm not that smart in this area. I can't tell you what the Minister of Economic Affairs is proposing. During the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, we also argued about these things, and we made some minor changes, but in general it remains as the Minister for Economic Affairs and its experts do. And let him answer when he's up to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U279	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U280	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wouldn't share your optimism about the development of our road construction. I would say that the state of the main routes remained at the level of the Soviet era. The same village highway as Tallinn is now on the Pärnu road, he was also in Soviet times. For a long time, it could have been built into four lines. In the same way, Tallinn and Tallinn are on the Narva road. How do you feel about your coalition partner Urve Palo's plan to take out a loan to modernise the Tartu road in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U281	You're such a young man that you don't remember exactly what the Soviets looked like. But I remember very well how they waved, were furry at the edge, and fell apart. The number of lanes is the same, but the quality of the roads is quite different. The number of rows does not necessarily have to increase. Most of Estonia's roads remain two-track, regardless of the regime. I have already commented on Urve Palo's position. I reminded him that he had about four of these words in a row, so "should be considered,"'maybe a little bit', he still managed it multiple times. However, as a signal, it is not right to say that roads are the area that is draining our budget. We have just talked about the question of budgetary balance. We do not want to disrupt the budgetary balance and we must always look at which areas are more worth helping, which are not. We also allocate quite a lot of euro money to roads, which requires co-financing. And these co-financing amounts are, to a large extent, obtained by means of a very, very cheap loan from the European Investment Bank. It's almost like euro money, but the same amount has to be paid back. It is a kind of non-economic measure, it is a favored money, and this limit we will use anyway. How many roads go on, I'm not ready to answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U282	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If you listen to your answers, it seems that the Estonian state has been very lucky. The government of true geniuses has come to an end. For more than 15 years, you've been funded by a certain percentage, but now it's turned out to be a total mess and a very wrong one. At last, the right solution has been found, which no one has ever thought of before. I'm sure you're right if you're saying no one's taking money off the road. It just won't be given any more. One answer also said that tea is a fairly well-developed area. This leads to the conclusion that there are areas that are worse. Does this also mean that there will be less spending on roads in the future, that other areas need to be helped?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U284	Was there a question? Was. If there's the word 'whether', the answer to your question is, 'No. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U285	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, will ask a question, and I hope that you will listen to the question, then you can answer it. And I'm not asking you a question. I will join Lauri Laas and invite you to travel from Tallinn and the main highways. For example, the people of my home village are driving along the state road, but they can't get home and out of home with a clean car all year round because there's still a gravel road. One of the main arguments that you and your coalition partner have used to justify why it is a good idea to decouple a certain percentage of excise duty from road financing is that in some years more money can be allocated to roads than 75% of excise duty. When would this blessed year come if the amount on the roads was higher than that guaranteed by 75% of the excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U287	This depends, for example, on how fast the rate of excise duty is slowing down. I am simply referring to the fact that we have a reduction in fuel consumption, so excise duties on fuel are not a very attractive source. Cars are more efficient, people are more selective, the quality of public transport has improved. There is therefore reason to believe that road transport is no longer enough to contribute. But we'll see, in itself, the sum is going to increase quite quickly. In 2016, there will be more money than in 2015, etc. There is no point in clinging to a certain percentage when the share of excise duties in the budget is actually decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U288	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U289	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to our highways, Tallinn-Tartu, Tallinn-Narva and Tallinn-Pärnu. Two plus two rows. When will you see that there could be a passage like this between these cities, and when could the money be allocated there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U290	I don't know when I'll see you. I guess I'll see when it's formed. But this proposal must still come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U291	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U292	Good manager! Good minister! Some time ago, a transport development plan was adopted right here in the Riigikogu, which clearly states that at least 10% of the excise duties on the incoming fuel will be allocated to support the storage of local roads. Hence the question: will the transport development plan be re-negotiated in this hall, together with the processing of the draft law amending the Road Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U293	I'm not sure if it's the whole hall that's discussing the procedure. I think the transport development plan is discussing, but I don't think it's the roads. I'm not so home in the development plans that I know exactly. We are now reforming and reducing their number, I do not know which development plans the Riigikogu intends to discuss in the future. But he always has that chance. The coalition agreement states that the municipal road budget will not be reduced, but I certainly do not want to link it to excise duty. Once again, excise duty binding is the wrong method.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U294	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, From Monday's answers, it can clearly be concluded that Minister Palo wishes to improve the quality of the Tartu road and extend the four-line road. He even promised to go to the government with the relevant loan proposal. Are you going to completely contradict him, or do you have some ideas on how to meet coalition partners and improve the condition of this road? This is undoubtedly one of the most widely used roads in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U296	I don't know what Urve Palo said exactly, but if the proposal is immature, it won't make it to the government hearing. That's right. The finance options are still decided by the Minister of Finance, and we also have legal limits on what we can and cannot do. I'm responsible for where the money is taken, and the government's going to give us a budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U297	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U298	Thank you. Good minister! You have written such a sentence in the explanatory memorandum that the implementation of the law is expected to have a considerable impact on the public authorities and local authorities managing the financing of road maintenance on state roads and local roads due to the road maintenance planning period. However, the impact analysis report is not attached to the explanatory memorandum. The reason why it has not been included has been that the preparation of such an analysis would not allow the draft to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. It is a pity, of course, that this impact analysis does not exist. That's one. Secondly, I have a question as to why the draft must now be dealt with as a matter of urgency during the summer. This analysis could be carried out during the summer, and if the analysis shows that it is reasonable to adopt a law, then do so in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U299	First of all, the explanatory notes are not written by the minister. You know that. If he wrote, he'd do it better. I don't know exactly what context that sentence is in. In itself, the urgency is due to the fact that the budget negotiations are ongoing and are going very intensively. We cannot keep them unless we know how flexible the revenue-costs of the budget are. That's why we're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U300	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U301	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Together with the amendment of the Road Act, other laws need to be amended. Can the Minister of Finance tell us when these changes will get to this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U302	I don't know what needs to be changed about this list. But these changes will get here. We don't have to hurry up with all the laws. If there's any air left, it's supposed to be an autumn theme.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U303	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U304	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I always thought you were a visionary. I've always kept quiet respect for your conservative fiscal policy. We all know that national connections, in particular roads, are crucial for the economy. Tell me what your personal opinion is. Do you think it is right to change the so far very specific financing scheme to improve the state of national connections so that we will start using this money where the hell knows? Or do you at least personally suspect that this bill is really bullshit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U305	My inner conviction is that this law is bullshit. And I've always had that conviction. But that 'fuck knows where' applies to the current scheme. Take a look around! Look at the paces of pressure on projects! Look at how, over time, individual projects have been overdimmed and money has been spent! Budget flexibility is a very substantive matter; it is not a personal matter for anyone. But if you want to know the biggest fan of this bill, it's me. Definitely! I have been applying for this for a long time, and I am very happy to be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U306	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue with this loan on the Tartu-Tallinn highway. Will you rule out this loan application immediately, or will you be willing to discuss it if Minister Palo brings this proposal to your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U308	Thank you. I do not need to discuss an abstract proposal which, at least as laconically described, is unreasonable. It is not the job of the Minister for Economic Affairs to set up funding schemes and shape fiscal policies. We have a loan plan, we have a loan facility and a loan limit. This limit goes to dividing between different projects, but precisely to co-finance the use of euro money, not elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U309	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U310	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will look at the explanatory memorandum, and it turns out that EUR 32.7 million was not used in 2012 and EUR 17 million in 2011. Why has this happened, and has anyone been punished for not having used the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U311	I'm sure no one deserves to be punished for that. It is worth punishing who has so far not changed this law. You are talking here consistently, not specifically about you, but about several other members of the Riigikogu, about the withdrawal of 25 million. But this is the same amount of money that life itself has taken in previous years. Not all projects will be completed, not all funding will succeed at the planned time. No one knows exactly how it's going. But in general terms, the volume of road funding, including its growth, is guaranteed as long as the government does not change until the government starts giving people cash, as is customary in some countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U312	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In the last week, you and former Prime Minister Andrus Ansip have criticised some of the past road investments. You've been a minister before, you're a minister now, Andrus Ansip was a prime minister. So where were your eyes earlier when the road-saving plans were confirmed? Did everything seem very correct and very good then, but now that this bill needs to be protected, everything seems to be badly done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U314	Eyes were down and ashamed. The proposal for such a tying to end has been in the air all along, since, I guess, the first week of June 2009. This is one proposal that has always been put forward and which has so far been rejected. It has really been embarrassing that the system is not effective. But one change that was already made during the previous government is that the Road Administration has become a new leader. The work there has been reorganized, and the attitude has certainly become more reasonable, and it will continue to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U315	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. As rapporteur for the Commission, 681 procedures will be presented by Kalle Palling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U316	Mr President, thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the transmission of the draft law amending the Road Act to the first reading on Tuesday 3 June. a. The meeting was attended by Viljar Kirikal, Chief Specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marika Tuusis, Adviser to the State Budget Department, and Rando Kängsepp, Chief Specialist, who presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and replied to further questions. The additional questions concerned all the areas that the Minister has already dealt with repeatedly and thoroughly in answering the questions of his fellow Members. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to appoint a rapporteur here, a consensual decision. We proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 June. a and set the deadline for amendments at 10 a.m. on 12 June 2014 Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U317	Now questions for the waitress. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U318	Good manager! Good waitress! I've already asked Jürgen Ligi that question and I'm going to ask you now. We adopted a transport development plan which clearly states that at least 10% of the money from excise duties on fuel must be allocated to local authorities. Could this draft and the adoption of the next drafts to be discussed today result in local authorities actually receiving much more money in the new year? We can see that more excise duties on fuel should be collected, because concessions are being withdrawn from certain areas. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U319	This issue was not addressed at the Commission meeting. However, as the Minister has repeatedly emphasised in this speech chair, you will be financed in the future according to the need and not according to the excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U320	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U321	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! Please also tell the Chamber why the Commission set a day for the amendments. What were the reasons? Why is it so urgent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U322	As the lead manager of the Commission, I put forward such a proposal and there were no objections. You were the President of the Commission on that day and, if there were any questions about this, the deadline for amendments would have been possible even longer. But there was no objection in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U323	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U324	Thank you, Mr President. You have certainly discussed in the coalition, as well as in your group and in the Commission, that many regions are waiting for dust-freeness. Was there any concern in the Commission that a number of MPs who have promised that their region's roads would be dust-free would have to admit that this was not possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U325	There was no such concern that if a pagan had allowed local roads to become dustless, it would certainly be impossible. Like the Minister, I would like to stress that this law adds flexibility. As has been said many times, you will be funded in the future on the basis of a road safety plan and this plan will certainly provide for a number of kilometres of dusty roads to be dust-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U326	Mr Tõniste, I am sorry, but two questions have already been put to the rapporteurs. You have a procedural question? Is that for me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U327	For accuracy: the rapporteur argued that the short deadline was not opposed. Personally, I disagreed. In that sense, that was the wrong argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U328	Ladies and gentlemen, when you speak on the subject, there should be a procedural question and it should be addressed to the President. But I ask Kalle Palling to respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U329	Indeed, when there was a vote, the Members of the Commission were able to vote either in favour or against. But there was no debate about whether or not there should be a longer deadline. In this sense, Toomas Tõnistel is right to have had a vote with the result of six votes to two, with one abstention. However, I repeat: there was no debate in the Commission that the deadline for amendments should be longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U330	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U331	The rapporteur from the Commission. The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provide that amendments may be tabled within 10 working days of the first reading (§ 99). I can read the text to you: after the first reading of the draft has been completed, members of the Riigikogu, committees and political groups may submit amendments to the draft within ten working days. This may be shortened if it is a special case. It is also stated in the law's executive publication that there must be so much time for amendments that they can be made. We see today's agenda, the debate of which obviously goes over normal working hours, even at night. Tomorrow our agenda will be very long, the debate will definitely last until the work of the committees begins, and then the meetings of the committees will begin. When should there be a time when the political group will come together after this first reading and discuss the amendments? If you limit yourself to one day, you will obviously not be able to propose amendments to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U332	The question was, when is the time? As you yourself said, in exceptional cases, it is possible that the deadline for amendments will be shorter. So I don't think we're against the law on home and working arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U333	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U334	Thank you. Dear waitress, It is interesting that you say that you are based on a road safety plan, but at the same time the people responsible for implementing this plan have said through the press that such a legislative amendment will certainly lead to a situation where the current rhythm of the road safety plan cannot be maintained. Perhaps you will explain to the members of the Riigikogu, who were not on the committee, what extraordinary circumstances you considered in the committee when you decided that amendments to this basic draft were not necessary and that there was no need to negotiate with the social partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U335	As I answered the question of Mr Tõnis, who chaired the committee, there was no debate that the deadline for amendments would be longer. This is not a very substantial legislative amendment. And as Kadri Simson said when he referred to the law, indeed, in exceptional cases, it is possible that the deadline for submitting amendments will be shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U336	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U337	Dear waitress, I am referring to the question of Kadri Samson and say that it must nevertheless be reasonable to implement the exception clause. I will ask when the group should still be able to discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U338	The first reading of this bill started yesterday, then it stopped and continues today. But those things were known before. Many of the questions that we had heard today were probably meant for yesterday morning, if not the day before yesterday. It would then also have been possible to prepare amendments. So if there are substantive proposals, time can be found to present them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U339	Priit Toobal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U340	Thank you, Mr President. The co-rapporteur suggested that the political groups propose amendments before the first reading was concluded. Have I understood the Rules of Procedure correctly that amendments can only be made after the first reading, which is going on today, has been completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U341	You have understood the Rules of Procedure Act correctly. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U342	Dear waitress, Since I'm a member of the relatively novice Riigikogu, maybe you can explain what this exceptional case is. And that one day and ten days, it's gotten a little crazy. Get me out of the wood and in the red!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U343	I can give an overview of the debate that took place in the Commission. As I have said twice, there was no debate about the deadline for amendments being too short, and there was no committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U344	Urbo Vaarmann, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U345	Since I did not receive an answer, I will say once again that I am a member of the new Riigikogu. Would the President of the sitting, who has taken this responsibility and made this decision, explain to me when to apply the exception and when to apply it for ten days?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U346	After completion of the first reading of the draft, the deadline for the submission of amendments shall be 10 working days. This is § 99 (1). A different deadline can be set by the Chairman of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the commission and this deadline will be announced at the end of the first reading. The first reading isn't finished yet, it's on. Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U347	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kalle! You honestly said it was your idea to have one day. And you did not discuss this deadline for tabling amendments. Although you didn't discuss it, maybe you'll explain why you offered it for one day. What was the reason? This had to be a very serious reason, because if there are so many questions about the draft, there really should be more time to prepare the amendments. Would you mind telling me what your motives were for proposing just one day?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U348	The motive was very clear: that we could process this bill during the regular session. So that this draft does not remain the case at any extraordinary sittings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U349	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U350	Thank you. I can't agree with you. After all, then, all such draft laws, which are known to cause a very serious dispute, could be left to the last days of the session and only set short time limits for amendments. Is that what you want to do in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U351	Good Ene! As I've told you many times, I'm a big fan of yours. But I don't agree with you or your arguments. The appointment of one or two or three days exceptionally for amendments to the draft law should certainly not become a normal practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U352	Urbo Vaarmann, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U353	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I still don't understand that kind of thing. The deadline must be sufficient to submit proposals and the Commission's proposal must be justified in order to set a different deadline. We have not heard the justification today, and I do not see that a longer deadline would be some kind of disaster. You didn't explain the hinds. Do it so I can figure out why it's one and not ten days. You didn't explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U354	I quoted the Rules of Procedure Act. As a general rule, the deadline is 10 days and a different deadline can be set by the Chairman of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the commission. But it's usually ten days. The deadline shall be announced at the end of the first reading. The first reading is still ongoing. Kaia Ival is also a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U355	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. In the commentary, § 99 in comment No 3 states that it is desirable for the Commission to justify a different deadline. Has there been any specific justification given to the President for such an extremely short deadline that a few hours of the night have been given for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U356	Now is the time for the representative of the Commission to justify this. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U357	Just as I, good Kaia, answered your good colleague Ene, as the judge of the commission, I had a simple desire in the committee's session to make this proposal so that we could process this important bill during the regular sessions of the Riigikogu at the spring session.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U358	Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Tarmo Tamm, please! I won't open negotiations. Urbo Vaarmann still has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U359	I wanted to be more specific. I understand you can set a different deadline. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U360	On a proposal from the Commission, yes. Please, procedural question, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U361	I'm sorry, but I'm still asking about the procedure. I understand that Mr President is always entitled to set a deadline of 10 days for amendments. A different deadline is only possible on a proposal from the Commission. If there is no other proposal from the Commission, it is possible for you, as the President, to set a deadline of 10 days for amendments. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U362	The Commission has proposed the deadline for amendments. Negotiation begins. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U363	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with inclusion and publicity. As you will remember, a coalition partner who was not yet in the coalition handed over the so-called 'democratic package' some time ago, saying that all drafts should be made public, that meetings should be public and that everyone should be included in the debate. What kind of involvement is it if we now have to propose improvements at night? You could try to do more serious work here in the Riigikogu! What's going on today reminds me of a circus that was played last year before Midsummer Day. It's a big rush. And there's a huge lack of money in road construction. I find it absurd that the main reason is that we have over-dimensioned road sections and built objects that the Estonian state does not need. I'd be ashamed of the people who were in the government when these objects were built. Now come to the Riigikogu and tell them that, unfortunately, it was really done in our time, and it was foolishness, but it would be like someone would be responsible for it! It has been said that the need to finance roads will be decided. Who decides? Will politicians now decide on the need to repair roads? So far, the Road Administration has managed it and I think it has done very well with the resources they have. The Minister did not know whether the cut would be limited to EUR 25 million in road money next year or whether the cut would be bigger. Knowing the state of the economy and the promises that have been made before the Riigikogu elections, I fear that it will be bigger. Probably more cuts, but the minister didn't answer that very well. I'll give you an example of an experience, I think it's worth learning from. In 2009, the road savings allowance allocated to local authorities, which had been enshrined in the law, was reduced by 10%. These amounts were: 4,9% in 2010, 4,8% in 2011, 6,5% in 2012. The purpose of this law is to give free hands and then use the money the way the government needs it at the moment. I say that taking money off the roads is one of the biggest economic nonsense I have ever heard in this Chamber of Parliament. Because any delay in repairing roads will cost more at a later time. If this is not understood by our esteemed government and coalition, please contact the specialists. Furthermore, at least 500 people will lose their jobs because of this reduction and I ask where they should go to work. It is a lie that currently 75% of all the money from excise duties on fuel goes to roads, in fact less than 50%. This is probably one of the main reasons for wanting to bring the law and reality into line. I'll also bring you a specialist assessment. The Road Technology Centre has examined the long-term cumulative sub-financing for the repair of state roads and has received an amount of EUR 836 million. For local roads and streets, the cumulative underfunding is broadly EUR 300 million. As a result, the road surfaces of the main Estonian roads are on average 13 years old, the road surfaces of the main roads are on average 25 years old and the road surfaces of the secondary roads and local roads are already more than 30 years old. In these circumstances, come and tell us that the right thing to do is to reduce the amount of road maintenance is foolish. The hope that more excise duties will be received each year is not true. I will give you an example: in 2013, 417 million fuel excise duties were received in the budget, and 402 million were planned this year, so 15 million less. There's a place to think. Now, hurriedly, in the hours of the night, adopt such a law of the law of the law, in my opinion, that would be foolishness. In order to prevent this nonsense, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to reject the draft law amending the Road Act at first reading 681.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U364	Would you like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U365	I just asked you a little while ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U366	Thank you. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The situation is that in the future, apparently written reports may no longer be given to me. This proposal, made by the Centre Party Group, is now writing a verbatim report. Also, requests for a break need not be made in writing. But if you wish to do so, please, I always accept with gratitude! Kaia Ival is a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U367	Thank you, Mr President. In answer to the previous procedural question, I think you misled the people in this hall. You said that if the Commission had proposed a different deadline for the amendments, you would be forced to take this into account. § 99 of the Rules of Procedure Act states that the Chairman of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the commission of directors, may set a different deadline for proposals. It's not said he's going to determine it, or he's going to have to. Please exercise this right granted to you by law and give us the right provided for in the same paragraph 1, which states that we can table amendments within 10 working days. If the Commission or you would like to give a two-to-three-day deadline, perhaps it would be possible to take a break. The Commission would make a new proposal and give us at least two working days. Maybe a more or less reasonable bill would get into this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U368	Was that supposed to be a procedural question now? It's complicated to qualify for it, but I'm still answering. What does this paragraph mean? This section means that if the Chairman of the Riigikogu sets a different deadline than ten days, he must not invent it himself. This means that when the committee says that there are ten days, the chairman of the Riigikogu cannot be appointed for one day. Do you understand? In other words, a different deadline will be born in such a way that the Commission will propose and the President of the Riigikogu will determine it. I really must determine this, but the Commission must give the relevant number. Please, one more procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U369	Let me get this straight: generally, the law provides that ten days are allowed for amendments to be tabled. The law also gives you the opportunity to set a shorter time, and I think you explained nicely to us under what conditions it would be. But if these conditions are not appropriate because of any circumstances, or if you do not want them to have a proposal, but you do not have to accept it, then you will always have the opportunity to set the same ten days. You don't have to set a two, three or five-day deadline, there's always a chance to give ten days. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U370	If the Commission has proposed a shorter deadline, the President can set a shorter deadline than usual. This may be both longer and shorter than the Commission's offer, but only in line with the Commission. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U371	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first time that policy has raised the issue of reducing road funding. It is unfortunately the first time that the reduction in road funding has become the official position of the government. What is strange about this is the basic reasoning of ministers that some over-dimensioned section of the road was built once before the massacre, and that is why the road money must now be reduced. That in the future, the parties to time will be better and will do their job better. So who's gonna lose this bill when it becomes a law? Roads are a vital infrastructure for us on a daily basis, and letting them go affects us all. The negative impact of reducing road money is long-term and unfortunately manifests in many ways. Firstly, good infrastructure conditions are an important prerequisite for economic development. In Tallinn, where the city has lost its streets, it is quite impossible to think in some places that it is a developing and innovative city. Do we really want a similar situation on the roads? Secondly, the state of roads affects road safety. The transport development plan aims at less than 50 deaths in traffic by 2020. This bill will, unfortunately, take us beyond this objective. Thirdly, the maintenance and development of the road network requires long-term planning. If the financing of roads is decoupled from the receipt of excise duties on fuel, the security of funding will be removed from this area and it is feared that once this has been done, there will be no easy return. The money needed to maintain the roads will be pinched into other things. Tallinn's warning example could hold back the government. Count the number of road signs "Dangerous well" and "Climbing" on the streets of Tallinn! These signs remind us that once you let the roads and streets go, repairing them is, unfortunately, more expensive than maintaining them. Estonian people deserve a safe traffic environment in cars, buses, bicycles and motorcycles. However, if this bill is adopted, the result will be a regression. In the case of this draft, it is also unprecedented that one night has been allowed to table amendments. Where are we going? Is this an open and inclusive new culture of governance that has just been led by today's President? There is certainly no excuse that the government coalition has been together for a short time and has not been able to bring all the drafts into the hall early enough, but they would still like to adopt this law before the summer. All the more so, this law-modifying bill needs time to be dealt with in plenary. To conclude, I also note briefly that the assertions that the draft is intended to increase budgetary flexibility and that it is not at all a threat to the financing of roads are spin-offs. The explanatory memorandum speaks of the need to bring the funding of roads into line with the real need. Is the government really saying that the real need is less than expected? Studies so far have shown the opposite. I would point out that the current law still does not prohibit you from financing more than 75% of the fuel excise duty. Behind the issue of flexibility and real need is the government's desire to take money at the expense of roads to honour the naked promises made in the coalition agreement. The budget for next year has not yet been approved, but the country's budget strategy approved by the government on 29 April already has 25 million euros less money planned for tea than the current road law. Three more minutes, please! I find it unconvincing that the amounts will increase in 2018. So much for flexibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U372	The IRL Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the Road Act 681. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U373	Honourable Riigikogu! The break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is over. The Group of the Centre Party and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance have proposed to reject draft 681 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 35 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, against 49 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not adopted. First reading of Bill 681 is complete. The President must set a deadline for amendments. I used the break taken by my honourable colleague, Mrs Iva, to see how the Commission set the deadline for this amendment. I know who chaired the committee and who proposed this. That was the vice-president of the Commission. I also know that it is very difficult to make amendments to such a law because you can only be in favour of or against this draft. Therefore, as President, I will set the deadline of 12 June at 10 a.m. for the amendments. The item is closed. This is the Commission's proposal, I cannot set any other deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U374	Thank you. Lembit Kaljuvee, right now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. This is a first reading. Lembit Kaljuvee, do you have a procedural question? As the representative of which group do you want a word? [[In the diner.]] If no political group empowers Lembit Kaljuveed to speak, I cannot give him the floor. I'm closing the negotiations. Sorry, Lembit Kaljuvee! That's the rules of procedure! Honourable Riigikogu! The Commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 681. However, two political groups, the Central Party and the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance, have proposed that the draft be rejected and that is something we must vote on. Kaia Ival is a procedural matter before the vote. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U375	Hello again to everyone who made it to the hall! I have a proposal to take a five-minute break before this vote. I propose this on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and, above all, it is included in the desire that the President be able to revisit § 99 (1) and give us 10 days to draft amendments. However, the lead committee would have the opportunity to reflect on its proposal and ask for a reasonable time-limit to be set in the interim. We're asking for a break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U376	Break before the vote: five minutes. We'll proceed at 3:19 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U377	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U378	Let's go! We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Commission waitress Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U379	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian electricity market opened for all consumers on 1 January 2013. For the efficient functioning of the market and the promotion of competition, a digital data exchange platform was set up to exchange data on the electricity market for the exchange of open suppliers, for the transmission of metering data and for the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on the market participant by law and for the enforcement of the rights conferred on it. The obligation to set up a data exchange platform was imposed on the system operator, but there is now a need to clarify the rules for covering the administrative costs of the data exchange platform. The transposition of the Renewable Energy Directive introduced an obligation for the transmission system operator to issue certificates of origin for electricity produced from renewable energy sources and to establish a database for their issuance. In order to join the trading system allowing international transactions, it is necessary to specify in the Electricity Market Act the requirements for the operations to be carried out in the certificate of origin. In the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act 318 is the result of which further processing is that the European Commission has not yet granted us the relevant State aid permit. MKM has recently exchanged information closely with the Competition Directorate of the European Commission, but it is likely that we will not be granted a State aid permit before the Riigikogu's summer vacation. At the same time, there are 318 points which are not directly linked to the State aid authorisation, but which will need to be implemented in the near future. The draft law amending the Electricity Market Act at first reading 687 today reflects the financing of the data exchange platform and the requirements for operations on certificates of origin for electricity produced from renewable energy sources. The relevant provisions were originally set out in the text of draft 318. The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the initiation of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act at its meeting on Tuesday, 3 June. Timo Tatar, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Siim Meeliste, Head of the same department, had been invited to the meeting, who provided an overview of the reasons for initiating the draft and provided further explanations. The Commission decided to initiate the draft by 7 votes in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention, to appoint a rapporteur here, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 10 June, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the amendments at 17 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U380	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U381	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, a good colleague from the Commission. Since one of your favourite answers is that this was not discussed in the Commission, I hope that my question cannot be answered in this way because it was mentioned. Point 12 of the draft law provides for § 71 (4) to be amended so that the cost of research and development works will be included in the network fee in the future. In my opinion, this is too much, companies should still do their research and development work at the expense of their profits. What, then, is the view: will we add every possible cost to the bill so that we can continue to increase the network fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U382	Thank you for your question, Mr Kallo. Indeed, this issue was addressed at the Commission's meeting, although this amendment concerns the R &amp; D costs of transmission system operators, which could only be taken into account in the future in the design of the network tariff. Actually, the amount is quite small. The estimated cost per year is EUR 70000 for all consumers, which is reflected in the amount of the network fee only somewhere in the fourth decimal place. So this cost can indeed be included in the network charge after the adoption of the law, but the consumer's electricity bill is essentially not affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U383	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U384	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Since the opening of the electricity grid, I, like many other domestic customers in Estonia, do not buy electricity from Eesti Energia. I therefore receive several accounts: one for electricity and another for network services. When could this situation change so that I can pay for my consumption on the basis of one bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U385	Good questioner! This particular issue does not concern in any way the debate on the draft within the Commission. I dare not predict any time limit from this speech chair of the Riigikogu when it will be possible to pay for electricity on the basis of one bill. This does not concern the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U386	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U387	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If this law enters into force, there will be a need to create a certain database. The bill clearly states that this task will be entrusted to the system operator. At the same time, the entry into force of the Implementing Act is provided for in general terms, it may enter into force in a few weeks' time. How does this system operator do its job now? Is the base ready yet? If not, when will it be finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U388	Good questioner! The data exchange platform is already in place, but the law does not deal with the cost of maintaining the data exchange platform. It's what this bill regulates. There is no problem with the entry into force of the law and the completion of the data exchange platform. The data exchange platform is ready and regulates only cost recovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U389	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U390	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When you answered my previous question, you indicated that there was some kind of EUR 0.00... in the account. According to the recent response, this draft also adds to the network fee the cost of managing the data exchange platform. Maybe it's like 0.00 euros again, but that's how it's going to increase. If the components of the network charge are taken individually, they are small amounts, but together with the excise duties it accounts for more than 2/3 of the final price of electricity consumption. The electricity price is already less than 1/3. So one more line is going to be the management of the data platform at the network fee. How far can it go like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U391	I think that if, by adopting this law, the gap in the cost coverage of the data exchange platform is closed, and in addition, it becomes clear to the Competition Authority that the costs of the research and development activities of transmission system operators can be included in the network fee, I do not see that some types of costs could be added. I would also like to make it clear that at the meeting of the Commission, we decided that we would come back to the issue of expenditure on research and development activities before the second reading of the draft. A specific rate should be fixed. It could be proposed that R &amp; D costs could amount to 1% of the transmission system operator's turnover; these costs could not be enormous. This is something we must definitely specify in the Commission between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U392	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U393	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What does it mean for the consumer to obtain a certificate of origin? Will the quality of electricity improve or will the price be cheaper? What will this certificate make the consumer better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U394	The introduction of this certificate will in no way change the pricing of electricity for the consumer. It is a separate trading system, which is primarily used in Estonia due to the introduction of electric cars. Indeed, when an electric car is loaded, it is assumed to be charged with energy from a renewable source. To prove this, a certificate of origin is required, and the draft law regulates how to prove that the energy sold in Estonia is produced by renewable energy sources and in cogeneration mode. After all, the renewable electricity produced in Estonia becomes statistically tradable throughout this statistics trade market, all over Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U395	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U396	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If we issue a certificate in the Riigikogu, there is also a certificate that we use only renewable energy, how is it guaranteed that the electrons that arrive here will not come from Latvia or Finland or from a nuclear power plant? How do we guarantee the validity of these certificates?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U397	There is no way to identify the origin of electrons moving online. However, in order to prove that electricity from renewable sources is used in an establishment or, for example, in electric transport, it is necessary to issue one certificate of origin for each megawatt-hour. These certificates are traded in a separate market system and can be statistically demonstrated that one undertaking or a particular user of an electric car consumes renewable electricity. But these electrons, I think you remember physics class, there's no way to prove it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U398	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U399	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If it is not possible to prove this that renewable energy in particular reaches the consumer, how will the consumer be given a certificate that it consumes this particular renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U400	The certificate shall be issued to a manufacturer who produces energy from a renewable source or cogeneration mode.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U401	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 687 amendments. 17 June 2010 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U402	We will move on to the third item on the agenda: Aivar Riisalu, Arto Asa, Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laasi, Lauri Luige, Lembit Kaljuvee, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Laurson, Rainer Vakra, Rannar Vassiljev, Remo Holsmer, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman, first reading of the Maritime Safety Act Amendment 646. I am pleased to welcome a member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodichi, in the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U403	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I start with the fact that the current version of the Maritime Safety Act does not indicate the distinction between the calculation of the waterway charge and the replacement of a ship on a regular service with another ship. The current regulation of the waterway charge is based on a "ship-based approach' and therefore, in the event of replacement of a ship, the rate to be charged by another ship shall be taken into account. In view of the interest of the State in the continuation of scheduled journeys and the interest of shipowners in a more flexible calculation of the waterway charge, as well as the fact that in certain cases, for reasons beyond the control of shipowners, there may be a need to replace the ship, the existing legislation needs to be supplemented. Let us see, then, what are the three aspects with which we want to supplement the law. First, to keep a common record of visits in case of replacement of a vessel. Secondly, the principle that the visits due are to be based on a ship with a higher charge of water for the whole calendar year will apply. And the third point: there will be a possibility of offsetting if a lower rate of the waterway charge has been taken into account before the replacement of the vessel, but the above-mentioned principle of the higher rate of the charge would be that of a higher rate of the waterway charge. The draft Law on Supplementing the Maritime Safety Act also sets out the principle that only ships of the same ship are subject to differences in the calculation of the waterway charge when a ship is replaced. Replacing a ship with another vessel can only be considered if the shipowner is the same. One of the shipowners carries out regular voyages and, if, in the course of its normal operation, there is a need to replace a ship, it is justified to make a distinction as regards the calculation of the waterway charge. Therefore, in the case of a new wording, the ship-based approach is changed to a regular line approach in the calculation of the visits due when the ship is replaced, but the other principles of the calculation of the waterway charge are not changed. For example, visits on a larger ship still require higher fees. The view of the calendar year is important in this context, as the number of visits leading to the reduction of the fee may be fulfilled during the first months of the year. If, in this situation, a ship is replaced after the number of visits has been completed, the keeping of records during the calendar year shall ensure that the waterway charge is set off. As I have already mentioned, in this context, it is no longer important whether a ship is replaced temporarily or permanently by a clear rule laying down the principle of a higher rate of waterway charge. Maybe a little internship. In this respect, it should be noted that the replacement vessel has so far been introduced by only one undertaking, but there is more than one undertaking requesting the replacement vessel to be used. However, since there is a ship-based approach to the calculation of the waterway charge so far, the possibility of using a replacement vessel has not been used any more. At the same time, there is a need and a desire. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U404	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U405	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea on 646 Monday, 2 June. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Hindrek Allvee, Chief Specialist of the Maritime Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Liisa Surva, and Chief Specialist of the Legal Department, who answered further questions about the draft. The Ministry's officials drew the Commission's members' attention to the fact that the proposed amendment to the draft requires restructuring of the Maritime Administration's information system, which cannot be carried out without a certain period of preparation. The initiator of the draft act explained that, for reasons of legal clarity, the draft proposal seeks to clarify one of the sections of the Maritime Safety Act relating to the replacement of ships on scheduled services. The amendment aims to avoid a situation where someone interprets the law in such a way that the ship owner or the ship agent serving the regular service is obliged to pay double the fee when replacing the ship. The initiator of the draft act explained that the Ministry of Economic Affairs also acknowledges that such a situation could indeed arise, and since the Ministry has more experience in this field, it has proposed in the Government's opinion a better wording of the draft. The initiator of the draft act was in agreement with this wording and since the draft could still be adopted as a law during the spring session, it was proposed that the draft be sent to the first reading as amended. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 10 June, that it be submitted for first reading in a modified form with the consent of the initiator, as was the previous one, that it be proposed to terminate the first reading as well as to give a consensus decision 5 p.m. That too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U406	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No negotiations will be opened. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 646 amendments. 12 June at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the third item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U407	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel. I ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U408	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels raises the rates of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco in order to increase the revenue of the state budget and to limit the consumption of products harmful to health. Alcohol excise duty will be increased by 15% next year, but by 10% every year during the period from 2016 to 2018. The excise duty on cigarettes, smoking and chewing tobacco will be increased by 5% in three years from 2016. In order to facilitate the use of biogas used as heating fuels, the excise duty exemption for this commodity will be introduced while the excise duty on natural gas used as heating fuels will be increased by 20% in 2015, 2016 and 2017. The share of excise duty in the price of natural gas is very low and the price of natural gas to domestic customers increases slightly by more than 1% per year, by 1.4% for the eligible consumer. The micro-producer households and housing associations of electricity, which are connected to the grid and whose equipment has a capacity of less than 100 kW, will subsequently be exempted from excise duty on the consumption of self-produced electricity. This will create additional incentives to consume renewable energy. The use of specialty diesel fuel will be permitted only in agriculture and fishing with fishing vessels in Estonia. The total exemption from excise duty will disappear. It is also convenient to put an end to the tax credit for light fuel oil. It is consumed very little in heating houses, as it is an expensive form of heating. However, the temptation to use this fuel in diesel engines is great, for there it provides considerable savings due to diesel excise. The amendment is also in line with European environmental and energy policies. Buildings must focus on savings, insulation, and also change the form of heating, both of which we plan investment grants. As a result of the completion of the special marking of light fuel oil, only one special-marked fuel will remain in use in Estonia: special-purpose diesel. In rail transport and shipping in Estonian waters, the right to use specially labelled fuel will disappear from 2015 onwards, and for heating and electricity generation, special-purpose diesel can be used until 1 May 2015, that is to say, the end of the heating period of this year. The financing plan for the draft National Budget Strategy 2015-2018 provides, in particular, for an increase in public transport costs of EUR 5 million. In the heating sector, support measures are to be financed from other sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U409	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U410	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law comforts users of fuel oil that the State will support the modification of the energy solution in small homes with EUR 3 million this year and next year. At the same time, it is estimated that there are about 1100 oil heating boilers in Estonian private dwellings. Do you think that 3 million euros will be enough to rebuild these heating systems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U411	In the case of structural reform, it is not an option that we pay for absolutely all the costs. I cannot tell you in advance how much it costs to change one boiler, making these proposals is a matter for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but overall, the result of the structural reform is long-term cost savings. After all, we have promised support for insulation as well. Oil boilers are very expensive. As an economic person, I dare say that a person does not need much extra money to switch to a sensible, more economic fuel. Rather, he needs a little extra incentive. The entire structural reform cannot be paid off. The result is long-term savings, including environmental protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U412	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U413	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One idea of excise duties is, as we know, to guide people's behaviour, and from this point of view, increasing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco is a good thing in itself. I'm worried about whether this scheduled excise is still gonna be recovered as money. Has there been any analysis or calculation, and if so, what has it shown? How is alcohol excise duty comparable between Estonia and our closest neighbours? I am thinking in particular of Latvia and Lithuania. So that it does not happen that alcohol will be produced from these countries and therefore the amount of excise duty in Estonia will remain much lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U414	The concern is perfectly understandable and well-founded. Well, we've been through this before these steps. However, this price increase is not so high as to make long journeys worthwhile. But the extra money we make from countries with more expensive alcohol is pretty high. I think this problem is relatively small, but the projections have taken it into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U415	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In rail transport, too, the fuel that is specially labelled according to this bill disappears. The carriers estimate that the country will lose EUR 9 million per year as a result. How does the state plan to find this EUR 9 million budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U417	I dare not comment on the loss of carriers. But I don't see the need to pay for it. Carriers will certainly exaggerate the effects of fuel excise duties. I must point out that these transit companies and logistics companies who have spoken here, that Estonia is losing its competitiveness to Latvia and Lithuania, have never said that there is no such advantage in these countries, why we must have it. Of course, when money is involved, the truth is selective. For me, it is unnatural for the user of fossil fuel to be given a tax credit ♪ this to send the wrong signal to the economy. Of course, the result of the change is not positive and expected for everyone, but not everything is always going for the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U418	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It takes about 1700 euros a year to heat a small, 75-square meter house. According to this draft law, this cost will increase by EUR 650 during the average winter temperature. However, this is two average pensions per year. What is your message to the thousands of single pensioners and other elderly people living in their homes? Do you want to move into an apartment, go to a nursing home? What would you tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U420	Your colleague has just talked about 1,100 houses, you are talking about thousands of pensioners here, there is at least a magnitude difference. My message is that we are trying to ease the transition of these people to other heating. This transition makes sense. A switch from expensive fuel to cheaper fuel is reasonable, and this increase in excise duty could trigger this. The state is trying to help those who find it difficult to do so with investment support and also with insulation support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U421	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U422	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When talking about thousands of people, it means how many apartment buildings also heat with oil. There are 76 oil-fired buildings in the town of Kallaste, and this change affects a large number of people. Have representatives of the city of Kallaste talked about this draft and, if so, what is their position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U423	I have not spoken to the representatives of the town of Kallaste, I confess honestly. And there are a few other cities whose representatives I haven't spoken to, you could read the list right away. Not all of the steps are pleasant, and the whole climate and energy policy is not pleasant because it makes life cheaper. No, he doesn't make life cheaper. But he makes life more sustainable in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U424	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U425	Thank you. Specially labelled diesel is allowed to be used as heating fuel until about 1 May next year. Thus, people have 10 to 11 months to change heating systems. How can the whole system be replaced during this period? This requires project and price offers, delivery time, etc. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U426	I do not believe that private houses need expensive public procurement procedures and have to take into account long litigation. This step is worth taking! All boiler companies will be happy to make their offer and it will certainly go quite smoothly in the Estonian service sector. This sector is on a good level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U427	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U428	Thank you. Dear Minister, There are two points in raising excise duties. One is budget implementation; the other is to influence consumer habits. This time we are talking about budget implementation. But why have we not taxed lip tobacco and allowed it to trade in order to get more money and influence people's habits? The police have noted that its sale is the first of the drug network trainings and is also a relatively popular trade article in the Defence Forces. The state, however, misses out on these very large amounts of excise revenue. Why can't we use it more?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U429	First of all, excise duty always has two aims: one is to make goods more expensive and the other is to raise money in the budget. But excise duty can be applied to legal goods and, in the case of lip tobacco, I have a vicious suspicion that it is banned in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U430	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U431	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Chancellor of Justice considered that the original date of entry into force of 1 January 2015 concerning specially labelled diesel fuel was not in accordance with the Constitution. In the current draft, the date of entry into force is 1 May 2015, and my question is related to this. Do you believe that this is in accordance with the Constitution or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U432	That's consistent. The Chancellor of Justice, and far from him alone, was somewhat concerned about whether 1 January was not too early, and that is why we decided to set the deadline for the expiry of the heating period. I think the heating period will end earlier in most houses, but it's officially the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U433	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U434	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You've suggested that houses be insulated in a number of answers, but I bet if the winter is out minus 20, it's just not enough insulation, you still have to heat more. And if there's an isolated house that is now heated with fuel oil, the electricity will come, but there may not be a gas line nearby. What, then, does the owner use to replace fuel oil? Are you suggesting you go back to the oven heat, build the stoves in? It's not possible to make chips work in a small house, so you should know it's meant for larger volumes. So, what's he going to do in the short term?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U435	I'm not really an engineer, I don't dare argue with you here. But there are many types of heating, and there are very few cases where none of them are suitable. But even if so, the city of Tallinn is not willing to pay for everything that makes sense. It is simply a sensible reform that stimulates the replacement of expensive heating systems and, in turn, provides financial support for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U436	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U437	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Last year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications carried out a survey of local authorities and found that local authorities own 182 properties using boilers that require about 3.3 million litres of special-marked fuel. And here's the question: is there compensation for local governments? And if it is, what's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U438	Once again: there is no need to compensate for reasonable modifications; reasonable steps will pay for themselves over time. However, it may be too costly for citizens to switch, and here we are trying to contribute. The municipality is not some particular risk group that is outside the country and for whom the state should be an almighty savior all the time. The state also has a social system. Income support is paid by municipalities from the state as required. In this respect, neither is it an exception to the fact that this price increase is compensated for by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U439	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U440	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have doubts that you won't notice the woods behind the trees. With this draft, you will abolish the exemption from excise duty on fuel used by vessels engaged in commercial fishing. It is a precedent in the Baltic Sea countries for professional fishermen to pay excise duties on fuel, not in any other country along the Baltic Sea. We'll be the first. Secondly, we are also aggravating the established situation where many Finnish and Lithuanian ships go to Estonian ports and we can get raw materials from there for our industries to add value to it. Why are we putting our fishermen at a disadvantage compared to the fishermen in all the other countries around the Baltic Sea? And why are we undermining the competitiveness of our fishing ports?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U441	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U442	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In addition to traditional cigarettes, e-cigarettes have recently become very common. They are said to have no direct harmful effect on their health, but it is certainly not a product to promote as a substitute for smoking. Would it make sense for us to start thinking about taxing e-cigarette in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U443	It would make sense. E-cigarette is definitely harmful to health. It is a mind poison, and the question is whether it is much more useful than what it is replacing. There is a tendency to be substitution treatment and a practice of taxing these products in Europe. It is also quite confusing how to control this market. Generally speaking, these are small quantities, which are not very difficult to transport from one place to another. But I don't want to talk about something that I didn't touch or pull a lung myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U444	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U445	Good minister! How come all these ideas are coming so suddenly? And what about legal certainty? You remember how, in 2009, we adopted a law that raised the VAT rate overnight, and many other such steps were taken at that time. Now it's only six months in advance. Fortunately, the Chancellor of Justice intervened, but still, why doesn't the government learn from its mistakes and give time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U446	The government mostly learns from the mistakes of others. That's his preference.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U447	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U448	If the ground is still frozen and the snout is scabs, no solution is likely to work. You're discussing everything's forbidden, everything's wrong, nothing fits, what do we do? Each owner shall make a decision according to his or her own circumstances. There are quite large-scale funds in the country to encourage the transition, and there are methods to support alternative heating methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U449	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U450	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It all depends on the objectives for which one or the other draft law has been put into effect. And if the aim is only to bring more money into the budget, it will certainly be debated. My question relates to alcohol duty. I am not saying that excise duty on alcohol should not be increased, but I want to know what goals you have set for the coming years a percentage increase of this kind. Why I ask this is actually linked to the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week, where there was a bigger round table. I asked the Conjuncture Institute if they had been ordered a comparative analysis of the ratio between the increase in alcohol excise duty and the average wage. It turns out that such an analysis has not been carried out, and perhaps from this, I think, an exponential rise which is based only on potential costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U451	I still know the institutes from which this study has not been commissioned. But I don't know where this nuclear science is. I myself have the relevant calculation among the working papers, I should look it up. This isn't nuclear science, calculate, there's no art! Why would I ask the Institute if they had been ordered to do an analysis? You have now received an answer, but of course this is not the answer to the problem itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U452	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U453	Thank you. Good waitress! You have spoken correctly today on several occasions about various relationships. You said that Laurson should be excited about Russian gas, reminded you of your relationship with vodka, both today and in the past. For the sake of the truth, why don't you tell us what relationship you have with less alcohol - beer and other soft alcoholic beverages? And I didn't quite understand your reasoning as to whether the excise duty on soft alcoholic beverages is, in your opinion, too low. What would happen if we increased it proportionally?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U454	Thank you. I don't want to talk about my own use. If you want yours, talk to me! Try different ways on top of yourself and come share your experience. However, I am now forced to answer questions. That's a question I don't think you have to answer for very long. But it would certainly happen that consumer preference tends to benefit more of the tougher stuff. I do not think that this would be sensible in terms of health policy and fair in terms of competition between alcohol producers and importers. This is far from consistent with our neighbours' and other European practices. Elsewhere, the excise differences between these two types of alcohol are greater, not smaller than ours.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U455	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U456	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I still missed an answer. Why don't you tell the people of Estonia what fuel it would be useful for house owners to switch to, so that they don't have to be in the same situation in a year's time, that there will be a rise in excise duty or something else? What kind of heating solution would be best for now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U457	I'm not a plan committee, I'm not a party committee, I'm not a party committee, I'm not a party committee. We are certainly not going to make major shifts in the proportion of heating in the coming years. However, the market itself is creating shifts. The share of light fuel oil in fuel use is very small. You're always talking about oil heating, but it's very small. And there are also conflicting data from the famous homeowners' association, or what do they call themselves, maybe the homeowners' association? be used not only for the purposes for which it has received an advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U458	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U459	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's nice to hear your answers in this sense that you're putting a sign on it right now and in the meantime you're saying, look, you're making me answer questions here. But whether tiny or not, it also depends on the respondent's perspective on someone's behalf, it's tiny for no one. But now to the question. I'd like to touch the tobacco excise for a second. You have taken the view that excise duty on tobacco could increase, and not from 1 January 2015 like other excise duties, but rather from 2016. I do not understand whether this desire is based on budgetary considerations for excise money to be collected in 2015, or whether there are other reasons for it? Otherwise, the general logic could be that we set stable constant lower slopes, not one-off and elevated percentage. Maybe you can comment on what it's coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U460	First, it is because the constant tide is coming to an end, and now a new decision has to be made. A new decision is to be made on tobacco, which is a rather large-scale collection of stocks. In order to obtain revenue by 2015, it is appropriate to make an increase from 1 January 2016. However, in the case of tobacco and alcohol policy, as I have said here many times, we cannot ignore the effects of the budget. We must not harm other areas by making mistakes at a certain rate or year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U461	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U462	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I followed your answers to the questions you asked, and at first I thought I wouldn't even ask, because you're not bothering to answer anyway. But then I thought that you were still standing on that board to give answers that you couldn't give in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So I'm going to ask you the question about my explanatory statement, and I expect you're going to bother to answer. According to the explanatory memorandum, there is a measure in Estonia such as the energy efficiency measure for apartment buildings aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of apartment buildings. The heating price of the oil-fired apartment buildings now being raised concerns about 200 houses and a promise has been made that these 200 houses will be able to ask for money to restructure their heating systems under this measure. Does this mean that those apartment buildings that have so far been in line to receive support for the insulation of houses will have to wait longer? Or does that mean they're gonna find more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U463	You could have canceled the prophylactic introduction that I wasn't going to answer anyway and what I was going to come here and that you meant not to ask. It's starting to happen again. I don't want to hear it again. I have no budget for this year, but of course we are talking about extra money to compensate. To this end, money has been requested from the European Union budget. I can't tell you what the status of sharing the CO2 quota is right now, but that's what we're doing and we're not going to give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U464	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U465	Ask what budget for the year is not a problem. There's always a million problems, and there's a lot of choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U466	The idea of excise duty is, as we know, to limit consumption and support climate policy. Fisheries is no exception in this respect. We should still give the right signals in the economy and not encourage a trend that we do not want to encourage. I do not dare argue with you about the competitiveness of fisheries, but I believe that this difficulty will also be overcome. It's always been over the difficulties. And it is very difficult to imagine that Latvia is a good place to go fishing because this excise duty applies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U467	Let's keep going. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U468	Thank you. Dear Minister, There is another very sensible proposal in this draft. It provides for exemption from excise duty on biogas used as heating fuel. The total exemption from excise duty on biogas is by its nature State aid, which requires Estonia to apply for a State aid authorisation from the European Commission. How quickly do you think we could get this state aid permit to give the sector a specific signal and confidence that the state is really promoting this environmentally friendly gas production?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U469	Hopefully we'll get clearance in time, but I'm not very enthusiastic about all these procedures. Environmental friendliness is certainly one aspect, but at the same time we must not forget that we are indirectly creating additional costs for society. We have to pay for environmental policy. We will miss the second fuel excise money when using biogas, and society as a whole will not be more competitive. This is just one sacrifice that needs to be made for environmental policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U470	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U471	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U472	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The country's long-term alcohol policy and alcohol excise strategy is such that a 5% increase has been agreed. How do you think this will affect the whole sector by trying to increase excise duty exceptionally? And I have a second question, too. Perhaps you would remind me, has the Ministry of Finance not previously referred to the sudden increase in excise duty as contributing to the illicit alcohol market? How exactly do you think this bill could affect the secret alcohol market?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U473	I think it will have a positive impact on the sector, as a result of which consumption will decrease. The secret market, however, is that we are in general controlling it satisfactorily already. It's something we can handle. For a long time, alcohol was relatively cheaper for us. It cheapened pretty fast and then didn't raise the price for a long time. In this sense, of course, we have a gap. The increase in the price of the alcohol bottle has been relatively modest. You guys look at this chart and now think about whether the secret vodka will really pay off as people's income grows. We are, how can I say, lagging behind, above all, in the price of a bottle of wine compared to GDP and incomes. We haven't made the bootlegging business relatively useful. The control mechanisms have also improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U474	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U475	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you about the loss of a special fuel discount. In fact, it is a step in the right direction. But I'm saying with this bill, you're putting unhappy people in an even worse position, because for a certain period they have to pay 38% higher fuel prices than they do now. And this price is already very high. However, should we not, on the contrary, do that before we introduce a compensation mechanism and try to solve the problem of these people and then turn a higher price on them? It is clear that for two or three years they will have to bear this higher price. You could do the opposite, especially so that people can't suffer. But the bill itself serves a noble purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U476	Thank you for your good words. It is also my opinion that the bill is reasonable. A little bit too much momentum in it, but it's a conscious fit. Budget implementation is not about filling your own stomach, it is about helping our people. A sudden increase in child benefits, for example, requires coverage and this is a very fair cover if we take money from where it is used inefficiently. Oil heating is ineffective. This is the right signal for consumers who have not replaced such a heating system so far. And the right signal is that we give support to heat or replace the boiler. But in general, these people are mostly so capable that they only need a little encouragement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U477	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U478	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The excise duty on natural gas in Estonia is already half higher than in Latvia and almost three times higher than in Lithuania. Now, with the proposed legislative amendment, the rate of excise duty on natural gas would rise by 20% per year, i.e. in three years' time, it would be 60% higher than the current rate. How does the government intend to compensate for the competitive backwardness of Estonian industry and private consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U479	Not all price increases, in particular 1% per year, are steps to be compensated. We cannot give the same amount of excise duty back to the person who spent the gas. We are sending a gentle signal that Russian gas It's more expensive and riskier for society than you might think on the basis of his retail price. And where will this competition suffer so much? After all, you do not have any examples of how competitiveness suffers. This is a very small price increase, which is unnoticed in the overall price volatility.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U480	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have given quite interesting answers today, and one of the most exciting things was when you spoke at length that tobacco must have different excise duties, because some are less valuable and the market for illegal income is larger. There are also very sweet ciders among these drinks, which, unfortunately, are offered to our children and young people by handing out all kinds of snacks at various youth events. Are we encouraging the drinking of low excise cider because it is cheap and good goods for non-law-abiding people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U481	Thank you. I'm glad you're interested. I find it interesting how you do not know the problem of the tobacco secret market how it can be news to you. I was talking about the issue of the Alcopops, they are not a very large part of the overall alcohol consumption. And there is a legal problem in interfering with this segment. Moreover, a very large intervention in this place simply leads to more consumption of lemonade and vodka, and this is not very effective. We must, in any case, be smart and we must, in any case, also comply with the rules of the European Union. If you think they can be corrected with some kind of clarification, tell me how. I would be delighted if the market for these sweet drinks was reduced. However, the child can't drink drinks with degrees anyway. A child cannot drink them, and it is not a question of the secret market; it is a matter of the legal market. In the case of smoke, I'm talking about a secret market, the alcop is not an illegal market. These are completely different things. In the case of tobacco, non-compliance is still expressed in completely different, underground trade channels. Alcopies are legally on the counter and this market must be controlled by different methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U482	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U483	Thank you. Another major subject for discussion today has been fuel oil. You have stood here very strongly for the need to redirect people, to choose a more environmentally friendly way of heating and so on. In fact, I believe that, according to their estimates, around 1100 household owners are in the majority of the age group who do not have such investment capacity. You said it as a consolation that the budget envisaged EUR 3 million, which is just over EUR 2 000 per household. Obviously you don't have to be an engineer, you said you weren't an engineer to realize that for 2,500 euros, if you do very well, you could build one oven. Do you have any alternatives besides building one oven to offer to a person whose pension is not enough to start rebuilding the entire plumbing system?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U484	Thank you. I don't think it's gonna take all the plumbing. The pipeline can also be rebuilt, but it is still a different boiler or an alternative where there are no pipes. 2,000 euros is quite a lot of money to make people do things that give them constant savings. Oil heating is definitely expensive. A person will pay for more expensive heat if we do not give him this incentive. He's paying more than other types of heating anyway. This transition will be stimulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U485	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U486	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is inspired by the question of Mailis Reps about ciders and your answer to him. You said the baby wouldn't drink anyway. Alcoholic drinks start at 1,2%, beer at 0,5%, but those drinks containing less than 1,2% of alcohol are not prohibited for minors. So it doesn't apply to them to the idea you said that a child wouldn't drink anyway. These drinks include quite a number of ciders, so a baby can drink cider containing alcohol in principle. And the goods are not subject to excise duty. When, or even if, is there hope for a solution to this problem? Do you see the problem at all that ciders under 1,2 promills are available to minors and are not subject to excise duty, with beer starting at 0.5% and taxing this excise duty as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U487	Thank you. It would be more dignified if you didn't put words in my mouth. I didn't say the baby didn't drink. I said the baby can't drink, and it has to be ensured differently. The child must not smoke, and this must also be ensured differently. But the markets are different, trade is different. On one occasion, we are talking about contraband, on the other, legal goods that are being abused. I don't really know how to comment on that cider thing right now. Why don't you look at it? Let me remind you of the reason that it is still not taxed. I wouldn't mind finding a way to shape a child's habits in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U488	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U489	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft decree states that according to the Ministry's study, there are 182 buildings owned by the local government in Estonia that are heated with specially labelled fueled boilers. In total, they consume 3.3 million litres of fuel oil per year. Thus, a change would generally mean an increase in heating costs to local authorities of EUR 1 million. In my home town, for example, there are several kindergartens on this kindergarten. Will you confirm that, if the municipalities so request, they will receive support for the reconstruction of the heating system of all these buildings? And if they do, what kind of reconstruction? You said there were cheaper heating methods. What kind of heating system should these municipalities switch to in order to receive this support that you have promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U490	Thank you. Once again, I'm not going to tell anyone what kind of heat he's going to have to switch to. Nor do I intend to impose on anyone in the public sector a structural reform that does not lead to savings, but only costs. It should have been a matter of concern for the municipalities long ago that they would choose the cheapest heating method. General costs are, of course, things that the public sector must bear in solidarity. If the fuel gets more expensive, we need to see if we can do the insulation, the boiler change, or something else. It must be analysed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U491	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U492	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yes, it is very right that we should choose the cheapest heating method. But don't you think this constant gaming and suddenly changing excise duties aren't gonna give you a choice? You don't leave enough time to adapt and choose the cheapest heating method. Shouldn't the notice be longer? It is clear that it will not be possible to rebuild the heating system so quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U493	Thank you. I don't know what kind of game you're talking about, but we're offering the citizens this opportunity, so we won't change the excise duty until the end of the heating season. The public sector should not be regarded as a social risk group, but as someone carrying out structural reforms and saving. After all, all this money gets back to people, the state doesn't collect it anywhere under a mattress.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U494	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U495	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 682 was discussed twice at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: first on 3 June and second on 9 June. I will give a brief overview of what has happened in these sittings. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Mr Lauri Lelumes, Chief Specialist, also attended the meeting on 3 June. I will mark the issues that have been the subject of the debate and try to give a brief overview of the debate on them. Firstly, the rates of excise duty on natural gas in Estonia compared to other countries of the European Union were discussed. It was generally stated that they were below the EU average, but since no precise comparison could be provided by the Ministry, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was asked to provide an overview of the rates of excise duties on natural gas in the European Union countries. This request was granted by the Ministry and it can be concluded that the rate of excise duty on natural gas in Estonia is now about twice that in the European Union on average. The discussion shows a comparison with Latvia and Lithuania, I might add that this rate is about four times lower than in Finland. One issue was the use of specially labelled diesel, specifically in which areas this fuel will remain. It can continue to be used in agriculture and, in part, in the fisheries sector, according to the draft submitted to us. The questions that had already been discussed were whether the specific labelling of fuel could stop at all and what debate had been held on the subject. The main problem child in this respect is the agricultural sector. It has been stated that special fuel regulation could be replaced by direct payments. But as far as I know, in the case of direct payments, the problem is that they cannot be differentiated and losers would be producers whose production is more energy intensive than those who do not expect very high fuel consumption. That is why this substitution is problematic. There was also the difference between the excise duties on strong and lean alcohol. This debate has also been held here today. For the most part, there was a debate in the Commission with the same content, so I will not focus on it for long. The main question was the proportion of the excise duty on beer and spirits, but the problem of these sweet drinks was also addressed. A somewhat specific question was the measurement of the semi-product of oil shale fuel oil, to which answers were given. It was examined whether biogas was currently exempt from excise duty or taxed. A representative of the Ministry of Finance said that until the end of last year, the Tax and Customs Board classified biofuels as natural gas because it was the closest product. However, the Member States of the EU qualify it under another commodity code. In the European Union's product classification working group, the case was finally assessed and biogas obtained a different product code from natural gas. This obscured the current excise law for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board so that biogas was no longer taxed. For reasons of legal clarity, the draft states clearly that biogas is not subject to taxation. The tax exemption for ewe gas, i.e. oil shale or peat or wood, was also discussed. It was examined why this was not provided for. There was also an interest in the biofuel target. Again, from a somewhat more detailed area, the issue of the tax liability of the housing association of the household consumer producing electricity using the capacity of 100 kW and the equipment connected to the system was under discussion. The principle is that regardless of whether a device is connected to a network or not, there is no tax liability. In the case of electricity supplied to the network, the network operator shall be liable for tax. When dealing with excise duties on alcohol, a link with the consumer price index was identified. It was asked whether the planned increase in excise duty was in line with the consumer price index. The initiator of the bill stated that, above all, the aim is not to increase the availability of alcohol, and this means that it is not wise to take the consumer price index as a reference base, but rather to take a person's income. Special fuel compensation in the transport sector was also at issue. According to the plans, it lies ahead in passenger transport; it does not concern freight transport. As a result, the impact of the change on competitiveness was also raised. It should be noted that when compared with one of our main competitors in Latvia, which has been somewhat more successful in rail transport than in Estonia, the fuel used by the railway in Latvia is not at a preferential position in terms of taxation, but the question is how the charges for the use of railway infrastructure are divided between passenger traffic and freight transport. There was also a question of ferry traffic, and the Ministry of Finance said that there was extra money in the budget to prevent tax changes from being passed on to prices. In the Commission, as was the case today, the Chancellor of Justice's attention to the sharp increase in the price of light fuel oil and the fact that people who are currently using this type of heating may not be able to switch to a new source of heating within the time envisaged. On this point, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance said that this is one of the reasons why the entry into force of this point has been postponed to the end of the next heating period. The actual price increase would reach people during the next heating period. As it was also complained that there was too little time to examine the documents, it was agreed that the draft would be sent to the first reading by 10 June, but if necessary there would be a possibility to ask further questions about the draft next Monday, 9 June. It was decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft be put on the agenda of Tuesday 10 June. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 2 against and no abstentions. As a result of the Commission's agreement on 3 June to continue the debate on 9 June, it also took place. There was a debate on whether or not the Minister should be present. He was present at the first debate. In general, this meeting of the Commission also focused on a substantive debate. Let me give a brief overview of the issues that came up in the second session. The increase in excise duty on cigarettes was clarified, in particular in 2016. According to the draft of the Ministry of Finance, the annual increase is 5%. At the same time, the members of the Commission argued that somewhere there was an impression that the actual increase in excise duty should be 10%. The draft is limited to 5%. Once again, the subject was specially marked fuel and rail. I would not dwell on this in any longer, as the content of the debate overlapd relatively much with that of the debate in the first sitting. For example, the abolition of the excise duty on biogas and the need for a State aid authorisation were again discussed. It was said that, indeed, a State aid authorisation was needed for this purpose. This item was last on 9 June in the plenary session and the time for the closure of the session is set out very precisely in the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act at 1 p.m. It has to be said that there were more questions than the time format allowed. Sadly, everyone who wanted to ask questions could not do so. However, our procedural decisions needed a decision, because earlier it had been proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 10 June. It was decided to propose that the first reading should be completed by 6 members of the Commission, against 4 to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 June, with 6 people in favour and 4 against, and to appoint Rannar Vassilyev, the chairman of the committee, as rapporteur, as well as 6 members of the Commission and 4 against. Before I start answering questions, I will say that, in fact, we had this draft, not in terms of content, but in terms of procedure, partly during the debate at the committee meeting yesterday. We decided that due to the expiry of the time limit and because it was not possible for everyone to ask as many questions as they wanted, we would discuss it further in our Thursday session. Then the questions that have not been asked in the Chamber could be raised and answered in the Commission. Indeed, there is a limited number of questions and answers in this Chamber. At the same time, we also raised the question of the deadline for amendments, as is the case here today for another draft and another committee. In general, the Riigikogu's practice has shown that ten days as a deadline for amendments is not appropriate, and so the question has arisen as to when to deviate from it. We discussed this very long in committee and decided that the chairman of the committee would be empowered to raise this issue the next time the chairmen of the committees met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U496	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U497	Thank you. I'm asking you about the rise in gas excise. Have you made calculations of the impact of excise increases on people next year? How is this 20% increase actually reflected in the bill? How much can the cost of people who heat their homes with gas be predicted to increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U498	There have been calculations. But right now, I don't know these numbers by heart, I should start looking for papers that I couldn't finish in a polite time. But the increase is one percent and a little bit more. I can't say for sure. That 1% is a very bad reason to talk about it for so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U499	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U500	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The aim is that those houses that are currently heated with liquid fuel should be equipped with alternative heating. But when I look at this table, I see that the state hopes, through the price of liquid fuel will be more expensive, to make EUR 31,7 million in four years. Where's the logic? Why don't they want to switch to alternative heating?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U501	Sorry, it was a very long question. Nobody wants to switch to alternative heating when the state makes 31,7 million. I didn't catch that logic right now, I guess a word went missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U502	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U503	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand that the purpose of the bill is to change two things: to increase the revenue of the state budget and to limit the consumption of alcohol and tobacco. I understand that if there is a desire to limit the consumption of alcohol and tobacco products, then perhaps not 15 or 10% of the excise duty could be increased, but 50 to 60%. But I want to ask you a little bit on the other side. It was fully programmed in the year 2018 it ended with an annual increase of the excise duty rate of 5%. But we add 15% and 10%, and then we go on 5% every year in 2018 by increasing tobacco excise duty. That's what this is about. Is there a problem with next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U504	Don't always tell me you don't understand! Try to investigate! The direct consequence of such harmonisation of tobacco excise duties would be that cheaper goods, where the risk of the secret market is high, would be more expensive and the profitability of this secret market would also increase. Consumers will be more vulnerable to the secret market. So our experts don't recommend it. It is the less law-abiding consumer of cheaper goods that we are trying to encourage to buy legal goods. That's the reality, and there's a lot of money involved. Tobacco companies have been, how can I put it, such very polite lobbyists. It has always been understandable what they want, and it is up to us to decide whether their wishes are quite impartial. There are cases where we have agreed with them, rather not in a particular case. I believe in my people, and I also perceive the logic that people who are chasing a cheap, low-quality, low-prestente brand would create new and stronger pressure on the secret market. They don't want to buy expensive goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U505	Thank you. We have heard many times here that raising alcohol duty helps to solve the problem of alcoholism and is therefore beneficial. But why has the proposal of the Green Paper, as well as the recommendations of many organisations to equalise excise duties on alcoholic beverages in the interests of the health of the population, or at least to reduce the current wide distinction, been disregarded? After all, it is known that it is cheap alcops, sweet, spirit - based drinks that contribute to the spread of alcoholism among young people. Why is their excise duty not increased proportionally, even though this would ultimately reduce health problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U506	Please show me in the Green Paper the place where it is said that alcohol excises must be equalized! I don't know a place like that. I know the alcopies are causing problems. To a large extent, it comes down to the fact that they do not have a legal definition, they do not have a code, or what it is, which would allow them to be taxed differently. But if you have such a proposal, I really ask you to find a way to contribute. That would be very reasonable. However, most of this has been demagogic about the harmonisation of excise duties. The argument that we can treat beer and vodka equally in terms of alcohol duty is completely wrong. The fact that we are somehow favored with beer is also completely wrong. We have done calculations at the insistence of the public and found that if our much cursed proportion of excise duties is 2.6 vodka more than beer, then the European average is 3.1. Lithuania has this difference of over five, as far as I know. And that's how you look at it. The first thing that makes you wonder why this shit gets done. Who gives birth to these legends all the time? Why is this talk so much? Of course, there is an economic interest behind this. As a politician, I wouldn't want to give such a signal that we're going to increase our beer excise duty more than the excise duty. That we believe that the share of lean alcohol in consumption must be reduced, the strong share must be increased. Statistics show that we are'very advanced' in terms of strong alcohol, and we consume it a lot. And there is another very simple reason for this difference. The cost price of the ethanol molecule is much cheaper for vodka, which is why it has to be added to the cost price much more than for beer. That's how it is. Experienced consumers say that vodka can be spanked first. I haven't tried vodka in a long time, probably decades. But it makes perfect sense to me. And when I think about my student time, I still think about it the same way. Never deviate from this direction, regardless of what Liviko and other producers or whoever is talking about. More vodka ethanol is taxed everywhere and there is an even greater difference in other countries. But we definitely have to deal with the alcop problem. Perhaps you can find some kind of legal recipe for taxing them. I couldn't find any strong support in my house when I tried it. They thought they wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U507	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U508	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have already partially answered the question that I would have asked. I also wanted to touch the difference between the excise duty on strong and lean alcohol, but not in the sense that I think it's right to even them out. It just seems to me that the excise duty on lean alcohol is still rising relatively marginally. In proportion to both objectives of maintaining human health and public finances, this increase could have been even greater. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, it seems to me that it is the centrality or encouragement of foreign brewers and large groups that has been included in this draft. We, like, with a little hairy hand, are restricting the activities of our own small brewers, which have just begun. We didn't have them for a while. Here I sense a certain contradiction. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U509	If I'm asked, I'm still saying that there's no way I'm gonna support a slower tide than a beer. I do not support it in principle. However, these small breweries, when they operate, therefore they have a consumer society. I welcome the fact that consumer preferences have become nuanced over 20 years ago. It's very nice to have this product find a market, whether in restaurants or stores. But we also have a special advantage for quite small producers, because they cannot guarantee overall efficiency. This advantage has led to the emergence of a number of small producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U510	Minister, now Esther Tuiksoo is asking you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U511	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, By amending this law, and by rushing it all, you are putting our agricultural sector in an unequal position compared to neighbouring countries. Farmers have also made some suggestions for you. One of them is that the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota could also finance a change in energy solutions in the agricultural sector. The second is to introduce a longer transitional period for the replacement of boilers operating in livestock buildings and dryers, during which they may allow the use of special-purpose diesel fuel. That time could be five or six years. Do you agree with these proposals and meet the sector, or do you say that difficulties have always been overcome? But think about what these difficulties have cost us, both in fisheries and in agriculture, what the cost of overcoming them has been.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U512	It's not an accident, it's not an accident, it's a deliberate change of fuel excise duty. The buyer of the CO2 quota can decide for himself where he will sell it. Our entire policy aims to maximise the benefits and the large number of beneficiaries. In order to support the replacement of boilers specifically used in agriculture, this must be demonstrated to those involved in these projects. And the sale of quotas is no longer as extensive as it was recently, so that no great free and just lying money should be expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U513	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U514	Good minister! It's been said a lot today that homeowners should switch to some other heating and start changing boilers. However, we are discussing here that the excise duty on gas is rising and the gas comes from Russia, it is bad, there must be no gas cover. Liquid fuel is bad, the excise is rising, it doesn't pay to be used. The investment in land heating is five times greater than the investment in any other form of heating. In winter, more electricity is needed, electricity is expensive, and maybe more CO2 will come. Solar energy does not pay off, it is not possible to heat the home in the winter, because the system is not so warm. Can you tell me what kind of heat you need to switch to? I mean, there can't be oven heating anywhere in the cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U515	Thank you. Good manager! Good waitress! I understand that there is some revenue planned for the budget due to the increase in alcohol duty, but has it been studied how much money is lost in our tourism sector and business? Higher excise duties can deter tourists, less drink, the turnover of catering companies fall, etc. Has this side been studied, and if so, what is the conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U516	In the field of alcohol trade, you are far more qualified than I am, and you will certainly take it with greater passion. I do not regard alcohol tourism or alcohol trade as Estonian Nokia in the old sense of Nokia. This increase in excise duty is good for the budget. Excise duty is increased by all countries. Latvia can raise it if we lift it, and it will certainly do so. We have already spoken to the Latvian Minister; he is following developments closely. The Finns are watching closely. Drinking doesn't go away. Of course, we have to consider the neighbors in our lifting, but we should not just think about how to get people who have come here more drunk. This policy must also be moderate and set polite targets.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U517	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U518	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I welcome the increase in the excise duty on strong drinks. But I do not understand why the so-called pop drinks, which I think are very bad for young people and children who are happy to use them, have become more neglected. You are saying that it is very difficult to establish a distinction that their excise duty is going to rise considerably more than it is now. I do, however, think that the Ministry of Finance, headed by such a wise minister, would be able to carry it out. So that we can draw the line so that children don't start drinking these light alcoholic beverages when they're 11 to 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U519	We haven't been so smart so far, but I can discuss it with my officials again. So far, the answer has been 'no', this is not possible. This has not been achieved anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U520	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U521	Thank you. Good Minister, I truly apologize for asking you a question and wasting your precious time! You answered here about the distinction between alcohol duty and alcohol duty. You can understand this: the logic is absolutely there so that our domestic beer industry can be supported to some extent. But as for tobacco excise, there's one thing I don't understand. Why is there a difference that cheaper and less quality cigarettes have lower rates of excise duty and higher prices? Why can't we harmonise it so that all cigarettes are subject to the same excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U522	Let's just say I'm definitely trying not to make my contribution so that it can become a tradition. But it certainly cannot be said that this is a precedent. This has been the case in a number of Commissions and what is being denied here, also in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in some ways before. Which in itself does not mean that it is a good practice that can be continued. It could indeed be said that the materials of the first sitting could have been in the hands of a longer one. The hearing took place on Tuesday and the documents could be obtained from the EMS on Monday. Whether it was enough time to get acquainted with this material or not, it is a question of its own, but of course it would not have been a bad thing if this period had been longer. But what we have to deny here is that this bill is behind fire, and at the current speed of the process, we must assume that we will not accept it before July. It is certainly not a traditional procedure because of the pace, and I do not think that this is an example that should be followed in the future. As far as possible, there could be as much time as possible for both the deadline for amendments and the consultation of documents and the debate in the Commission. However, I do not agree with the argument that it has not been possible to get answers to questions in the Commission when dealing with this draft. The first session, which took place on 3 June, lasted a total of 3.5 hours, and the most important time was just to deal with draft 682. So, in the end, I think it has been discussed. However, this does not mean that the whole debate process could not have been longer and smoother.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U523	Thank you very much. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U524	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. First of all, I also agree with Ene Ergma and say that handling such drafts in committee before arriving in this Chamber is a bad precedent. I don't think you should set such an example. But my question is about liquid fuel with special markings and heating it. The explanatory memorandum to the bill on pages 26 and 27 contains a table showing how much revenue is expected for the state budget. This amount is EUR 7,8 million in 2015, EUR 13 million in 2016, EUR 8 million in 2017 and EUR 2,9 million in 2018, a total of EUR 31,7 million. A few months ago, we fought together against Juhan Parts' activities to increase home expenses. Now, on your way to the government, you have gone exactly the same way to help increase people's home expenses. EUR 31.7 million for people to pay more for home expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U525	One minute is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U526	Why have you changed your mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U527	First of all, this $31.7 million makes sense to split it over these years. Otherwise, it doesn't make it the most accurate impression. There is no doubt that home expenses will increase. The question is what this increase is justified or not. Or rather, whether there are justified differences on the basis of which consumers have been treated differently so far. When we are talking about natural gas, the question is whether it is justified or not to have an excise duty which can be considered smaller than that of other types of fuels. The fact that prices are rising tends to be normal in a market economy. A market economy where prices do not rise but fall is likely to be unlikely to be very keen in the long term. If we are talking about an increase in the heating bill of 0.7 to 1.4% as a result of an increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas, then there is no doubt that this is an increase in prices. However, if we compare it with other price increases, as shown by the consumer price index, it cannot be said that this is a drastic increase in prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U528	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U529	The same place in the explanatory memorandum that Stalnukhin was already talking about. There is a risk that Estonian gas networks will go to Elering, which has already stretched out its greedy tentacles. In other words, all this talk about a 1.4% increase in excise duty is not true. Elering will run out of network charges of at least 30, 40 or 50% and have exactly the same excise duties. What, however, is the actual tax imposed on gas by the State? This statement is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U530	I assume that this explanatory statement is not wrong that the impact on prices through excise duty has been calculated correctly. As regards the charge for the network service, which becomes the owner of the network and, as a result, whether prices are rising or falling, this is the subject of other drafts. And I do not agree that the network charge is the same as the excise duty on natural gas covered by today's draft. These are certainly fundamentally different taxes. The network fee is primarily a charge for the delivery of natural gas and consists of different cost components.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U531	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U532	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that only one special-marked fuel will remain in use in Estonia as a result of the completion of the special-marking of light fuel oil: special-purpose diesel fuel. Would you mention the areas in which this fuel will be allowed to be used in the future and give your assessment of the feasibility of using special-purpose diesel in these areas? Suddenly, it makes more sense to develop support measures for these areas and to leave all diesel fuel unmarked. As far as I know, the previous Minister for Agriculture had to develop these measures, whether you're aware of where they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U533	In principle, the differences would remain valid for agriculture and fisheries. The biggest question has been whether it is possible to replace specially labelled fuel with subsidies. I do not consider myself a major specialist in this area, but, as far as I know, the main problem with the transition from specially labelled fuel to subsidies is that it is difficult or even prohibited to treat different farmers differently when granting direct payments. In other words, the question is whether direct payments would also compensate for the loss of fuel with a special incentive for those who have more energy intensive farming than those whose production requires much less fuel. I have understood that this is the main difficulty in developing support schemes. It seems to me that if this problem were to be overcome, it would be an innovation that would be worth discussing seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U534	There's no more calls. I'll close the negotiations. The Bureau has received two proposals with the same content, one from the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the other from the Centre Party Group. We must therefore prepare for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica and the Centre Party to amend the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel 682. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of Bill 682 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 17 June at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion in the Chamber is too loud!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U535	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U536	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U537	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Co-Rapporteur, Today we received a letter from AS Eesti Gaas regarding the 20% increase in the excise duty rate on natural gas in the next three years. The letter states that the increase in the price of gas directly affects 100000 domestic customers and slightly more than 2000 companies across Estonia, that the increase in the price of this heat affects every third heat consumer in Estonia, that the increase in the price of gas and heat produced from it is added to the increase in the price of the natural gas network, that competitiveness is reduced, etc. Does it not seem to you that the explanatory statement that tells us about the consequences of this increase in excise duty does not reflect the truth? Perhaps there is still a need to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U538	Yes, we have received a number of letters regarding this draft excise duty. Their content varies and depends on the area represented by their senders. I'm sure we'll make contact with the mail transmitters and try to discuss the subject. As far as natural gas is concerned, the number of customers is indeed very high, while the share of excise duty in the final price of natural gas is not very significant. This means, in practice, that, in the case of a 20% increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas, excise duty, depending on whether it is a consumer of natural gas in a district heating system or whether it is directly used, represents 0,7 to 1,4% of the final price. There is no doubt that this affects a very large number of residents and also a considerable number of entrepreneurs, but it does not have a significant impact on money. We will definitely contact the author of this letter and discuss this subject, but I repeat, although there are many who are affected by this change, this effect is not drastic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U539	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U540	Thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. To be honest, I am very concerned about the precedent that your committee has set. You brought the big floor draft, which was not the end of the debate. First, the draft documents were received very late by the members of the Commission, and second, a number of questions remained. Tell me, will you continue like this? Is this good practice you're demonstrating right now? Could it not have been possible to bring this draft to the Chamber when it has been properly discussed by the Commission? We are beginning to wonder whether any serious discussion in the Commission is taking place or whether it is based on the need to bring the draft to the Chamber and let us not discuss it any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U541	Having fought for more than five years for the separation of the gas network from Eesti Gaas, I assure you, I have never fought for the nationalisation of this network. Elering, however, is undoubtedly trying to do so. Here, colleagues also asked about one thing. That's right, we're a little confused right now. Explain to me purely theoretically, where you can see the difference between the excise duty and the discretionary network charge imposed by the state enterprise! I argue that the network charge imposed by the State company constitutes an excise duty. Please argue with me!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U542	So I'm arguing. Excise duties are applied in areas where there is a risk to the environment or human health, or where non-renewable resources are used. In the case of gas, we can certainly talk about the excise duty that has been applied to a non-renewable resource. And it is certainly not the way to get the cleanest energy from the point of view of nature. It's a classic excise duty for tax purposes. If the future owner of the Eesti Gaas network will be a state company, then the fee for its use is expected to be set on a cost-based basis and should be controlled by the Competition Authority, as it controls all other such prices. In this respect, I cannot accept that the network user charge can be set at quite random, irrespective of whether it is privately owned or State-owned. The Competition Authority has a role to play here, regardless of who will own the gas network in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U543	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Now we're opening negotiations. Please, as representative of the Group of the Sven Sester Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U544	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Looking at your performance and you, even now, when you're at my right hand, it's got a feeling you're getting kind of tired. I also understand that you have had to defend the draft road law with which you want to allocate certain funds from the budget at the expense of the roads. A draft amendment to the Income Tax Act is about to come, which also raises questions, as agricultural subsidies are a relatively arbitrary choice, and now we are talking about excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, natural gas, specially labelled fuel. It's not easy! I really understand it's not easy! Looking at the explanatory memorandum to this bill, I immediately noticed the purpose of the law. The first sentence of the relevant paragraph shows the nature of what is currently happening: 'The draft has not been prepared in advance due to the urgent need to implement the Government of the Republic's action plan. ' Ladies and gentlemen, that explains what we are doing here today. What is being set out here today is not a goal. It is actually a means of achieving some other goals. The whole process that is going on here is not a goal, it is a tool. And what are the goals, that's a separate subject. So let us talk about the provisions that are being sought to enforce. First, alcohol duty. We have already agreed on this agreement a certain number of years ago and will be passed on to 2015 and 2016 with the aim of increasing the excise duty rate on alcohol by 5% per year in four consecutive years. This is a valid law. It is now foreseen that the future law should increase 15% in 2015 and not much has been said, in all three following years, by 1.5% in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Today we have talked mainly only about next year. For me, the question is, if that's the way to ask, what is the right percentage? What's that supposed to come from? The minister answered my question evasively. Since I brought in the Conjuncture Institute, he said we don't have to ask the Conjuncture Institute about it, he has some data of his own. What kind of information did you miss these answers from? But I'd like to know where that light came from. In previous years, on the basis of the database used by the Minister, it has been concluded that 5% is correct, but now it says that 15% and 10% in the future are correct. One thing I can say: surely we should take the view that alcohol will not become cheaper over time. We will take the income we receive, or the average wage or median wage, whatever the notional figure, and compare it with the price of alcohol. In this way, when converted, alcohol should certainly not become cheaper. By the way, I can say that I did some tests, and I have to say that the 5% increase that was agreed is very likely to result in a situation where alcohol becomes cheaper over time. Therefore, we should increase the rate of excise duty. The question is, what is the correct percentage: either the exponential increase of 15% at the 5% agreed so far or something else. It seemed to me that the calculation showed 7 to 8% after we left. Thus, the increase in alcohol duty is not based on anything other than what the draft explanatory memorandum says: we need budgetary resources to achieve our specific objectives. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U545	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U546	Second, tobacco excise. We have agreed once before that excise duty on tobacco will be 10%. This is an agreement made a few years ago and we smoothed the 10% increase planned for one year, two years: 6% and 6%. But what do we see now? We see a 5% increase in tobacco excise duty in 2016, 2017 and 2018 according to this draft. Again, in our discussion, we have only talked about this so-called first rise. The excise duty rate will also increase in the next three years. My question is that if we want to create a situation where tobacco products are also increasing in line with the inflation index or the rise in average wages, why do we cancel 2015? So far, there is no other answer than that, if we introduce an increase by 2016, most producers and wholesalers will concentrate their stocks in the last three months to months before it. And budgetaryly, this means that higher excise duties will fall into 2015. That's true. That's true. Again, I say that these decisions are made on political technological grounds, not on grounds of public health. What's interesting is that even tobacco manufacturers say, come on, fellas, raise the rate of excise duty on tobacco as early as next year. They could say don't lift at all, but no, they say, "Get up all the time, but be sure." Third, natural gas. I sense that the government has a new "messageosis" in mind. And its essence is, don't talk about the 20% increase in prices, natural gas will increase by 1% and a little bit. But once again, it's basically just next year. According to the draft, in the three following years, the gas price will rise by 20% each year: from EUR 23 per 1000 cubic metres to EUR 40 per cubic metre after three years. The real increase in excise duty is almost 85%. To say that the gas is rising by some 1% isn't right. This is a 20% price increase every year. Slightly related to the specific labelling of liquid fuel. I think it is right, in the long run, to put an end to all the activities relating to blue fuel in the market. It is very expensive for the country to control it. The question is what compensatory measures should be taken in the future if the use of this fuel is to be discontinued in certain sectors. Right now, we're gonna see what's gonna happen in the near future. We see 2,000 small houses and 200 apartment buildings, we see the declining competitiveness of Estonian Railways compared to other companies in the Baltics, we see fishing in trouble. Of course, questions arise for which one or the other decision has been made. The interest groups have sent dozens of letters to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but the specific draft proposals are accompanied by phrases: 'not counted', 'not supported', 'not counted'. Ladies and gentlemen, the summary of all this is that the IRL Group proposes to reject the draft rather than go ahead with it. We think it is right to come back to the hall with it once it has been discussed with all the parties involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U547	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U548	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group proposes to reject at first reading the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels. And for the following reasons. Firstly, we understand the government's desire to gain a better position with fiscal increases in the deteriorating economic environment, but these tax increases will inevitably lead to an increase in the cost of living in Estonia. In the case of this draft, it is certainly deplorable that another increase in taxes will increase domestic costs. Eesti Pank has submitted a revised forecast of the Estonian economy, which says that consumer prices are expected to rise. The very low inflation rate in the first half of 2014 will gradually pick up and this will also be driven by domestic price increases. The latter is caused, among other things, by an increase in the rates of excise duty. In this way, this year's price increase, which is only 0.8%, will be 2.4% next year and 2.7% in 2016. With this figure, we will continue to be a country with higher prices than the average in the euro area. If there is always a justification for the increase in the price of alcohol and tobacco that vices should be taxed, then the location of Estonia puts us in such a position that heating the room should not be punishable. It is not a sin that Estonian families try to keep themselves warm in the winter; it is a coercion. The fact that, according to the draft law, a large number of families are hit by tax increases has brought attention not only to the opposition of the Riigikogu, but also to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice talks more narrowly about families that still heat their private homes with fuel oil and points out that the planned increase in excise duty on light fuel oil will lead to an increase of approximately 38% in warm bills in these homes, as the excise duty rate is expected to increase by 350% next year. This means that the change will have a major impact on these families. However, the compensation mechanism, which is kindly permitted in words, has not yet been established. Families who now find out that the heating period ahead will be the last one at this price are told to find a more appropriate and cheaper way of heating. So either they have to make a very big one-off payout to replace their heating system, or they have to wait for the allowed steps to be taken in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, KredEx and the Ministry of Finance. We can read from the explanatory memorandum that these parties intend to agree in the near future on the details and practical implementation of the support measure. We have reached the first reading of the draft law without knowing what this support measure will be in the future and what it will mean in the short term, according to the understanding of the ministries. Nor do we have the certainty that every household that can raise its own money is still eligible and that there is enough aid for everyone. So, according to these explanatory notes, for a thousand families, but some estimates, which the Chancellor of Justice also refers to, for a much larger number of parties involved, this law would mean a significant increase in home expenses. True, there are no political parties in the government today who would have signed a contract with the electorate and promised not to increase home expenses, but that does not mean that we should accept such a thing. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U549	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U550	This law would certainly have an impact on local governments as well. As stated beautifully in the explanatory memorandum, 182 municipal buildings are fueled by liquid fuel oil and, according to their own figures, consume 3.3 million litres of fuel oil per year. The planned change also means more than a million additional costs for municipalities. Quite a number of these buildings are kindergartens. So by improving the state budget position, costs are again incurred by local governments, in addition to homeowners. We have an interesting rhetoric: when taxes are raised, it is said that everyone should suffer in solidarity, but we do not see that solidarity on the part of the government when we bear the price increases. And finally. Playing with rhetorical percentages is going on, like raising the gas excise by 20% next year, plus 20% in 2016 and then 20% in 2017 wouldn't count for anything. It is as if marginal and gas consumers should hardly notice it. In fact, according to the percentage, it would really look like nothing, but it is expected to generate additional receipts of EUR 2.9 million next year, EUR 6.1 million already in 2016 and EUR 9.9 million in 2017. If we divide these millions of gas consumers, the loss of everyone is no longer a sum worth noticing, but amounts to hundreds of euros. The fact that the tax increase is almost overlooked is likely to be as empty as the previous tax increases that have been made in the rising line have shown. The Centre Party Group therefore proposes to reject the draft as such a package. It has no other purpose than to improve this year's receipts. I understand the Ministry of Finance, which hopes that if excise duties on alcohol and tobacco are significantly increased next year, everyone will rush to buy them in advance this year and then, at the end of the year, it can be said that, despite the recession, the budget was still being implemented. But next year, it will set the new government back because next year, the money will not be collected, plus any problems with the secret market. I hope that you will support our proposal to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U551	We'll continue the trial. Agenda item 5 is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U552	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U553	I'm sorry, waitress! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U554	Nevertheless, Mr President and honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The main objectives of the proposed draft are to improve tax compliance and improve the business environment. The first amendment provides for an extension of the period of 30 days to 60 days of the tax refund claim, while the second amendment provides for the disclosure of the amount of tax paid on the tax authorities' website. The Tax Act and the VAT Act extend the so-called interest-free period for fulfilling the refund claim from 30 days to 60 days, while the VAT Act shortens the period for processing VAT overpayment by 30 days in order to keep the overall period for processing the VAT refund claim the same, 120 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U555	Honourable Riigikogu, the waitress cannot even hear her own voice. Please, if you want to speak loudly, you can do it in another place! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U556	I see and hear that Juhan Parts is the first time in the Riigikogu this spring. Good afternoon. The amendment concerns higher-risk return requirements which require additional checks under the current regime. The basis for the tax authority's risk analysis is unchanged, with about 95% of the claims still being met within four working days. The tax authority is obliged to carry out any proceedings as soon as possible and without causing any inconvenience to the taxpayer. The Tax and Customs Board is going to s. a From 10 October, publish the sum of the national taxes, funded pension contributions and unemployment insurance contributions paid as a lump sum. In addition, the amount of labour taxes is specifically mentioned. The information shall be published on a quarterly basis and the amount of taxes paid by natural persons shall not be disclosed. The amendments allowing more efficient use of the time of tax officials are, firstly, the failure to draw up a revision act if nothing new was discovered in the course of the review and, secondly, the tax debt relating to assets acquired as an inheritance, such as land tax debt, is not taken into account. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U557	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U558	Thank you. Dear Minister, Healing the business environment and introducing measures to reduce various tax evasion and promote better tax collection are certainly an initiative that must be welcomed here in the Riigikogu Hall. But what do you estimate, for example, of the amount of VAT non-receipt that the country misses every year because of tax evasion? I'm sure you have the numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U559	Thank you. I am beginning to forget them because the number of initiatives launched has been very large. Some of them have already been approved. But it's been over a year since I had the calculations of that initiative in my head. I think that the size of this tax hole was estimated, it was now exactly a year or it was more back, well over 400 million euros. And directly the share of VAT there was more than half. But it's not all a question of methodology, it's always a question of assessing such receipts, but it's debatable what to read. Different methodologies can produce different results.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U560	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U561	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! The shift from 30 to 60 days is a very long time for an entrepreneur who wants to re-use this money in his undertaking. In addition, loans from the bank are very expensive in the current Estonian economic environment, with high interest rates. Are there any other solutions to make it possible to return money more quickly? Perhaps to require any additional documents from economic operators so that the return takes place more quickly so that 60 days are not needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U562	I think that VAT will not be refunded as quickly and efficiently as in Estonia anywhere in Europe. However, this is done relatively blindly on the basis of the three or four figures that the taxpayer himself presents. This system is based on the utmost trust, which means not only fair tax payments but also very gross abuses. The IRS itself assesses these risks. As far as documents are concerned, we do not have the VAT return supplement here with great effort finally approved and regularized. This is one document that can cause much less trouble for the taxpayer. The tax administration can monitor the reality without sending a revision to the taxpayer. Overall, risky taxpayers can be better sorted out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U563	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U564	Thank you. Tax evasion among economic operators in a particular sector, albeit as a few examples, is a rule rather than an exception. It's like a public secret among entrepreneurs. In this sense, disclosure of paid taxes is certainly a good initiative. You mentioned that, in fact, the package that means this objective consists of quite a number of laws. Some of them have already entered into force, some are just coming into force. Is there already a better collection of taxes in the light that some laws have entered into force and some are just entering into force? Businesses may already be in tune because they know that tax evasion is becoming increasingly difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U565	I dare not make any assessment of how we have tax compliance, because here the word is taken from the tail. I can well remember how Erki Arrow randomly turned my words around and said that he does not believe that people are dishonest. He may believe that in sports, doping has never been used; he certainly knows better. Unfortunately, I know tax fraud is a reality, and we want it to be less. So these measures are all really noble. And they have been designed to minimise the administrative burden. We are also developing reporting and control towards convenience. In summary, these measures will still save the company's money because competition will be fairer. We are giving back together, including that we are trying to reduce and reduce labour taxes. Has the situation improved? Let's just say there's such a doubt. Taxes are much better than in the economy. But you can't cheer because VAT, for example, had a setback last month. I will tell everyone who took the fire from it and wrote cheers on their blogs and Facebook walls, so, see, now the government has to cut back again, that in May it really was an obvious increase in repayments and fluctuations. But in general, there is no reason to claim that the government is already in trouble. No, in the end, taxes have been received well above expectations and we hope that they will remain so. And we hope that these measures have played their part, at least in terms of prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U566	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U567	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Some time ago, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the so-called 1000 euro law was passed, despite the opposition of the President. You said that this law would help speed up the refund of VAT, that then the invoices would move very quickly to the tax administration and that such a situation should not occur that it would take much time. Now you come up with a bill that proposes double the payback time. What additional operations will the tax authorities carry out within their additional 30 days?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U568	First of all, I have to say that the reform party was the manure carrier, but it was obviously the IRL that refused to control its budget expenditure more. For example, the specific provision that caused us a large deficit was forced to take advantage of 75% of excise duties on fuel, although certain euro projects had not opened up. Euro money could not be used and projects could not be launched so quickly. Do not pretend that the need for more money was a reform party initiative. It was clearly the desire to spend the IRL. But the whole result is undoubtedly positive in two ways. Firstly, it is fair money; we did not make any other proposals. And this is money that can be given back honestly for the benefit of society. A lot has been said about this 60 and 30-day question. It has been discussed in the Committee on Tax Fraud under the leadership of employers and the Chamber of Commerce and we know which transactions , for example, require documents to be obtained from a distance from Cyprus or Bulgaria, where the ends of the fraud schemes are hidden. Other countries are not as e-states as Estonia, and they cannot transmit data to us operationally. You can't check suspicious transactions in 30 days. Suspicious transactions - a very small part of the transactions are defined as such by the tax administration - require additional time, most of the transactions will be refunded in four days, which is definitely the European record, I say.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U569	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U570	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! You're saying 95% of the transactions should get the money back quickly. Knowing that we have around 80,000 companies and about 50,000 of them active, it can be calculated that 5% is about 2,500 companies. Is it really going to take so much time for this check to be carried out with the large number of IRS officials? Or does it take time for mail, for example, to get information from Cyprus?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U571	Unfortunately, control coverage is only 3% of transactions. We cannot establish a state either in the police or in the tax administration. We need to improve methods and improve compliance. It is compliance and effectiveness of control that ultimately ensure better tax collection. I mentioned that tax disclosure will take place from 1 October. Disclosure of the amount of taxes is certainly a prestigious project from the point of view of the Chamber of Commerce, but on the other hand it also means neighbourhood surveillance. It'll fix the receipts. And we have just announced the list of tax debtors, again, a step that will provide more effective feedback. However, we are far from being able to control everyone. But there are a number of issues that have already been discussed in this Chamber, and I myself hope for the best result from the VAT return supplement. It gives the most obvious amount of honest money. There's no doubt about that. There's nothing to interpret. It's still money that's still been stolen and hasn't been returned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U572	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U573	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We must, of course, fight tax fraud. It may even be 60 days to process the recovery claim, but I do not understand that the tax administration does not have to pay compensation for it. If I turn out to be the right entrepreneur and my money is being held up for 60 days, I ask why the IRS doesn't have to compensate me. I would like to give you an example of a recent court decision where the IRS had to pay interest of EUR 1.5 million to Nordea's bank because it was holding up Nordea's money. It wasn't possible to deduct any 60 days when interest was riddled. I think it's easy to challenge in court. You have to fight. But don't pay any interest if I'm right. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U574	The answer is that interest in this case must be paid. If you're right, you have to pay, but that 60 days is the time of the check within which you don't have to pay automatically. How can such a situation be ruled out? Just don't be suspicious. [[In the diner.]] If you want to listen, I'll answer if you don't want to, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U575	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U576	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Once again, I apologize for asking you a question! On the contrary to you, I really believe that people, including athletes, are honest. Unfortunately for Veterans' sports, I don't know how honest they are in their own business. But here's my question. You replied here that the professional associations agreed to this extension. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry does not consider it appropriate to extend the processing of the return claim. My question is, I repeat: why is it still needed? The explanatory memorandum states that most of the refunds can be made within four days, 98% even had one corresponding figure. Why, then, do we need to extend this deadline by 30 days if we are technically able to cope more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U577	Didn't you actually understand? Are you really saying there's no doping in sports? These are equal claims! In fact, the tax administration carries out risk analyses and focuses on transactions that are suspicious. He's got to be able to control them longer. If he's wrong in his assessment, he'll pay interest if he's not, he won't have to pay it. Then it costs something, and maybe more than the one who made the unfair deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U578	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U579	Thank you. Dear Minister, When I read questions from the explanatory memorandum that the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has asked, and while I am a little familiar with what entrepreneurs are saying, I have the impression that I may be wrong that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is experiencing very serious difficulties in fulfilling this task. In most of the responses, it is clear that they do not have the capacity to do so, the second and the third, in order to be more flexible at one point or another. And here's my next question. Maybe this limit is still too small. Maybe it should be a little bigger. In terms of the European Union, most of our companies are so small that they should not be controlled very much. I understand that this last half upsets you, but still.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U580	What bill you were talking about, I didn't catch it. What kind of border was that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U581	Then you can ask the following question. We're not going to start a discussion here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U582	If you mean the limit of 30 and 60 days, here is the chosen optimum. It is determined taking into account the time spent on the movement of paper documents and the very high administrative costs of the process. In many cases, there is no point in taking action, as the tax administration will not be able to deal with this in 30 days anyway. It is therefore reasonable to extend this period. But it really does concern very few companies and transactions for which this path is being made. In itself, the two-month payback period in Europe is not a rarity, but it is a very rare one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U583	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U584	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Mr Lokk-Tramberg asked for something quite different, but he has the right to explain his request with a second point of clarification. I come back to Mr Tarmo Tamme's question. Perhaps he was somewhat unheard of, but his question was about 60 days why they did not have to pay interest. It is quite understandable that more than 60 days of compensation are paid, that this money has been withheld, but the question was about possible interest paid within 60 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U585	It is a question of paying interest for money held in excess of the normal time limit. I'll check exactly what was asked, and then I'll give you the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U586	Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U587	Thank you. Good waitress! I'd ask you that. When we adopted this so-called EUR 1000 law, this meant an additional financial burden on businesses, most of whom are honest. But the purpose of this law is to help the tax authorities detect tax frauds more quickly, which is said to contribute very much to this. Now we have another bill on the table, which also generates additional costs for certain businesses. 30 days of late money, if the company has to borrow it, means a specific cost. You gotta pay interest for that. Is that how we create a business-friendly environment? I admit that an honest business environment is in the interest of all businesses, but can it be guaranteed only by creating costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U588	It's very good that you finally admitted it. I would have answered something you wouldn't have liked. As politicians, we should not fall to a level where we are saying that all costs are punishment and that society will win nothing if it spends. Also necessary expenses. This concerns both the state and businesses. The companies themselves have made a great deal of complaints because competitors are cheating. I guess that's why we've changed the law, and it's given us the strength to deal with things. This is also a matter discussed with businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U589	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister Jürgen Ligi. I would like to ask Mr Remo Holsmer, Member of the Monetary Commission, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U590	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act, initiated this year on 2 June, at its meeting on 3 June and 9 June. At its meeting on 3 June, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi gave an overview of the objectives of the draft, and on 9 June, the members of the Commission were answered by the staff of the Ministry of Finance Lemmi Oro and Anneli Valgma. Four issues can be highlighted as the main objectives of the draft. Most of them were also discussed in advance with the Minister, but I will still list them. First, the extension of the initial period for checking the refund claims to 60 calendar days; second, the publication on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board of the amount of state taxes paid by taxable persons; third, if the circumstances which alter the tax liability are not identified during the review, the revision will be prepared only at the request of the taxable person; fourth, the tax debt relating to the estate will not be counted as interest from the opening of the inheritance. I will now give an overview of the discussions that have taken place in the Commission. They asked why the repayment period was extended. As the Minister explained in his recent presentation, this amendment concerns, in particular, cross-border transactions and the need to combat tax fraud. The current time limit for the initial verification does not allow the tax authorities to establish sufficiently whether the claim for reimbursement is justified, i.e. whether the procedure should be extended or not. The extension of the withdrawal period will allow for a more thorough verification of the reimbursement claims at a very high financial risk. They asked whether one of the thoughts of going from 30 to 60 days was that the state should not pay interest. The Minister has given a reasoned reply on this, as here today, that interest will not have to be paid within this 60-day period if taxes have been wrongly declared. The meeting of the Commission asked how much the impact on the state budget, i.e. the financial gain, would be. No specific amount is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to this draft. It is a measure of a general nature to improve tax compliance and the competitive environment, which has a direct and indirect impact on the growth of public revenue and on cost reductions in the long term. This is part of the government's package of measures to combat tax fraud. The Commission was asked whether the law could not provide for a list of documents which should be submitted in the interests of a faster refund procedure. The people of the Ministry replied that it was not possible to set out a list of such documents in accordance with the general principles of the tax procedure. We also touched on the publication in the Commission of the amount of taxes paid. This proposal, as the Minister of Finance mentioned here, has been made by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Disclosure of taxes paid to the state on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board will hopefully increase Estonia's tax culture and lead to fairer competition. The members of the Commission asked how trade secrets could be protected when these tax data were disclosed. The amount of taxes paid shall be disclosed in aggregate form and the proportion of taxes on labour shall be disclosed in aggregate form within it. This information is general and does not allow meaningful conclusions to be drawn on the financial and working processes of the company. Labour costs are also currently publicly available information through company annual reports. Following these questions and the ensuing discussion, the Commission took the following procedural decisions: At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by 6 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by 10 June. At its meeting on 9 June, it was decided to propose that the first reading of draft 680 be completed with 6 votes in favour, 1 against, 3 abstentions, and that the deadline for amendments be set at 15 June. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour of this proposal and 4 against it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U591	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U592	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Was the following subject discussed in the Commission? We are very proud of our IT country and of our electronic databases, and we have recently accepted this 1000 euro declaration commitment. We can argue whether this is good or bad, but one argument was that it allows the tax administration to detect tax fraud more effectively. Now that we have this law passed and the tax administration is able to deal with these matters effectively, why is it so necessary to add this 30 days? Was it discussed or not discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U593	We discussed that this inclusion of 30 days would help the Tax and Customs Board to better investigate, in particular, cross-border tax fraud. The availability of information from third countries within 30 days may be problematic due to their legal space and therefore the Tax Administration sees the need to extend it to 60 days in order to obtain further information from any country; it does not want to label anyone specifically from where the information is to be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U594	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 680. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 16 June at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U595	Next is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U596	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will begin by introducing this draft of amendments which are more important in drawing up the list of non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations with income tax advantages. In order to simplify and shorten the procedure, the Tax and Customs Board will replace the Government of the Republic. The underlying reason is that listing means implementing tax laws, not making a political decision. The concept of charity of a non-profit organisation or foundation shall be specified. According to the new wording, a charitable association offering goods, services or other goods is mainly free of charge or otherwise non-profit-making or available to the general public. Provision shall be made for more precise conditions for obtaining and maintaining the list, as well as for the requirement that the firm has been active for at least six months before being listed and that it has submitted an annual report. There are also reasons for deletion from the list. The definition of scholarship and the conditions for exemption from income tax paid by listed non-profit institutions shall be defined. The aim is to clarify the distinction between pay and scholarship. The listed companies will be obliged to declare the higher amounts and recipients of scholarships paid during the year and to disclose the information on the tax authorities' website. The draft provides for the taxation of the agricultural and environmental subsidies paid to natural persons by way of income tax, based on the proposal of the Chamber of Agriculture. According to the current law, there is an inequality in the taxation of subsidies, since the benefit paid to a natural person is taxed only if the recipient is self-employed. As a result of the draft, the tax-free rate will increase from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month, i.e. to EUR 1848 per year. The exemption for crew members, crew members of a public transport vehicle shall be increased from EUR 6 to EUR 10 per person per day for journeys. The daily allowance payable to experts participating in the Twinning or Technical Assistance and Communication project TAIEX, financed by the European Union, shall be exempt from the income tax. The rest of the minor amendments to the Income Tax Act are precise, worded and technical. For example, it is necessary to specify the taxation of the benefit of the sale of the estate due to the recent decision of the Supreme Court. The costs incurred by the seller may be deducted in the future. The law needed clarification. The amendment to the Social Tax Act is technical; the reference to food standards is simply changed. The Cultural Endowment Act is amended to ensure further tax exemptions for grants, scholarships and bonuses paid by the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. The impact of the tax-free income change on the state budget will be 70 million in 2015 and this amount will increase in the future, as certain costs will initially be partly allocated to 2015. As a result of the taxation of the PRIA grants, the state budget for 2015 could receive an additional EUR 1,5 million. By the time the amendments enter into force, we want 1 January 2015. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U597	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U598	Thank you. Dear Minister, Am I right to understand that, under this law, all grants paid by cultural capital will be tax-free in the future, regardless of their size?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U599	These are not all payments. If cultural capital pays something that is subject to social tax and income tax, such as remuneration, then that remains the case. In the case of grants, scholarships and bonuses, the tax exemption shall remain in force. Whether this should be the case is, of course, a big issue, but cultural capital has a unique financing system and is jealously protected. That doesn't always make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U600	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U601	Thank you. Minister, I have two questions. The first is the question of whether, according to this law, cultural capital remains valid on the same rights as non-profit organisations on the list of income tax exemptions. Are donations to cultural capital exempt from income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U602	I cannot answer that question if he is on exactly the same footing, but donations to cultural capital are exempt from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U603	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U604	Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about scholarships, more specifically sports scholarships. After reading the bill and the explanatory statement, it seems to me that neither coaches, players, nor judges are allowed to receive scholarships. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U605	Here the scholarship and pay limit is undoubtedly not very easy to understand. But everyone who pays should be informed, the IRS and the EOK have been explaining all this for a long time. It is a matter of pay in many cases, although it is spoken of as a scholarship. But there is no reason to claim that the work of a judge is something designed to develop itself for the sake of the results of the future. I'm sure it's not, it's still a job.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U606	Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U607	Thank you. Dear Minister, The question concerns the same famous list of non-profit organisations benefiting from income tax exemption. This decision goes away from the government, you said it must not be a political decision, and it goes to the competence of the Tax and Customs Board. What does that mean? Can you comment on that? Is there a change in qualifications, or what else does it entail?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U608	The tax administration had a rather decisive role to play so far. But, above all, the fact that possible embarrassing discussions in the government are changing is the opportunity for politicians to put pressure on their own associations to make an exception, and it all disappears. I have no reason to claim that this would have been something very prevalent in the years that I have seen it immediately, but it has been unpleasant when, at the request of a clearly connected community or other interested parties, something that is not in line with the principle of the law or equal treatment is being pushed through. Every politician always has a big heart, but somewhere there are rules, somewhere there's a limit. A neutral tax decision must be taken whether the firm fulfils the conditions for keeping on the list or not. It must not depend on the wishes of any party or person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U609	Thank you. Please, Maimu Berg!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U610	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm gonna grab the word. In response to Mrs Lokk-Tramberg, you said that you are not satisfied that cultural capital makes payments that have not been taxed. Would you explain why you're not happy? And I ask you now, do you know, for example, how big is the honorary book of an Estonian writer, which the cultural capital alone can pay him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U611	I know these orders of magnitude. I'm not saying the honorary is big. It's just that special rules are always things that should be avoided. The funding of all the cultural capital, which has been spoken of here for more than ten years, has always been disgraced. It is illogical that this is linked to individual taxes, the receipts of which are relatively volatile depending on the economic situation. For example, the collection of gambling tax has decreased a great deal. And on the other hand, it's fluctuating depending on what kind of policy we're pursuing. Gambling policy cannot be based on the desire for more money to come to the scene, but it is a much deeper consideration. That is why I have always believed that cultural capital must be guaranteed reasonable and well-considered funding. And its guarantee must not be any kind of automatism, which depends on the degree of rejection of vices, so if we reject alcohol, fight gambling, then the rooster gets less money. It doesn't make any sense. It's just a financial lie. Similarly, there could be equal treatment of scholarships, grants and salaries, honorars in different areas. There could be equal treatment, but this does not mean that a net payment to the rooster should suffer. Net payments may also increase. But the tax system should be uniform and not emotional, as well as funding. I remember when during the time of the depression, gambling fell and it was complained that money wouldn't come. But it was still his money that was left in his pocket. Is this system reasonable? According to the parties, those who see these decisions are paid out much more freely than in the country in general. These criteria were very closely followed in the decision-making process. It's not about the size of the money, it's about the rules. However, I am not saying that there is too much money in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U612	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U613	Thank you. Dear Minister, Following the entry into force of the Act, various grants will be taxed on income tax. The law states that income tax has to be paid, for example, on the substitute employee's allowance, which is currently paid from the state budget. At the same time, subsidies from the state budget such as breeding aid and market development aid are not subject to income tax. The same applies to payments made under the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. There has been some choice: 21 subsidies go to taxation, a dozen do not go. There are no different KIC and EAS benefits for taxation either. What is the basis for the choice that these specific subsidies will be taxed and the rest will not? In the Committee on Finance, I did not receive a reply from Lemmi Oro or anyone else. They said they didn't know what the basis for this choice was. Do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U614	You did get that answer, though. You were not answered that they did not know the basis for the choice. They replied that there was no understanding of the basis for setting these subsidies themselves. There is relative chaos in this area and these subsidies do not correspond to the original documents of the European Union. That's the answer you got. However, I recognise that the continuity of the taxation of income tax on subsidies is not sufficient even after this draft has been approved. It's bigger, but it's not enough. If you proposed how different grants could be taxed in the same way as income tax, and this would be adopted, the state budget would only benefit from it and would be able to pay more in different areas. Keeping certain proportions in society is important. Whoever gets the money will give the others a small piece. Not that someone gets the money and claims it's his punishment if he has to hand something over to others. These others are usually the weakest in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U615	Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U616	Thank you. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the Cultural Capital Board will be empowered to lay down the basis for the payment of the bonuses, scholarships and grants paid by the Cultural Capital Board. I have a question: before these grants, scholarships and bonuses were paid on what basis? Please do not misunderstand that I am somehow anti-cultural, on the contrary, but I am also a great sports friend. In the light of this whole issue, I somehow sense that there is talk of violations and possible jock schemes, especially in sports and sports clubs, but less in culture. Have you noticed that there have also been cases in culture such as professional sports clubs? The procedures for these cases are currently in progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U617	If you ask me this directly, I must say that there is relative chaos in the cultural capital, and according to people who know the matter, in the payment of subsidies. There has not been the same degree of compliance with normal practice and rules as elsewhere. When comparing sport and culture, it is true, in the case of culture, creativity is a slightly more abstract concept. If a person goes somewhere and has a wider circle of eyes because of it, it is not clearly verifiable. Quite the same rigour can never be established in this area, but it costs to improve this system. That is why these proposals too. This does not mean that money will be reduced in any way, it will simply be shared in the future hopefully in a more consistent way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U618	Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U619	Minister, thank you very much. The concept of scholarship was vague, and this bill will certainly specify it. Do you share the view that if this bill becomes a law, you will go down a certain path and not act like a period where there was a great deal of confusion? Otherwise, it would actually be a crash for many sports clubs and all of Estonia's sports. Do you believe that there is a certain date when the law enters into force and that since then a clean slate will begin? I can't imagine who can digest the consequences of this last period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U620	Concern is appropriate, but even in this case, the politician is not in a position to give instructions to the tax administration on how to carry out the audit. As a close person, I can say that this is the way the IRS has behaved. The fact that some clubs had two of them, I think, got caught in the gears, was a bit of bad luck for them. Indeed, the audits were very seldom conducted, spared this area, while knowing how they lived their lives and thought it was the right thing to do. The laws that said how to do it have been known, they have been explained by the tax authorities and the EOK, and these things have also been debated in court. Now, let's just say, with this legislative amendment, you're going to have a little jolt, the practical result of which is hopefully what you said. To put it mildly, I will not rule it out. But this is not my political arrangement for the IRS.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U621	Thank you. Please, Tatiana Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U622	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm involved in sports, including top sports. My question is this: why are top sports coaches working on Olympic preparatory projects still receiving a scholarship? In the case of a scholarship, there is neither a contract nor a social guarantee. How long will such a situation last?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U623	In the case of EOK, this is a certain practice, however, while respecting the established laws. But I don't want to get too caught up in this for the very reason that came up on the question of the questioner. In that case, more should begin to go through old sins, and it might end up fatally for a lot of people. But, of course, you're waiting for a more precise answer than I can give you right now. I understand, however, that EOK's choices have been law-abiding and that the particularities of the scholarship have been taken into account. At the same time, coaches of course should receive social guarantees, they should also receive basic salaries in addition to the fact that a step is set for some specific preparation. In fact, it should not be that the coach works without social guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U624	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U625	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am a little sorry that the Ministry of Finance did not consider it possible to take into account the Ministry of Culture's proposal to stop keeping this list, which is also reflected in Bill 683. But that's it. My question is actually specific. Does the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance consider that a non-profit organisation included in this list of non-profit institutions, such as the Miki Association, should have a legal advantage compared to cultural capital governed by public law, allowing grants and grants to be paid out exempt from income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U626	Thank you. It's a complicated question, the first half of it caused more excitement. The proposal to withdraw from the list is insane. The exemption is not granted in this way, that no one simply says that I call myself an NGO Tartu Brewery, and from that moment there are no taxes. This is insane, don't make such suggestions! And I don't think the Ministry of Culture has ever done anything like this. As for the comparison between the rooster and the NGOs, I already got into trouble last time. They have their own specifics, of course. But we need to look at exactly what is meant by the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U627	Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U628	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the preparation of this bill, the Estonian Chamber of Culture has proposed to exempt from income tax donations made by companies to cultural capital and is said to be opposed by the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps you can explain the reason for this opposition. But as for your comment that there has been chaos in the distribution of grants for cultural capital, I would remind you that, under the law, the Estonian Cultural Endowment Council has a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and I have never heard of his proposals ever rejected in that council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U629	The one representative that's in there is one of my sources. He's been very unhappy. He is a very good person and a very big professional and, as far as I know, he has also made a strong impression on the Minister of Culture and contributed to the improvement of the situation. But why is the tax not, figuratively speaking, allowed to be paid to the cultural capital instead of paid to the budget? It is natural for the state to impose taxes to the extent that it considers essential. Not that the state will impose higher taxes and then everyone will see where it puts it. No, we appreciate the needs of our country, and the state wants to decide its own taxes, even if it is a brow. In this case, the rules and planning should be as stringent as those applicable to the financing of the state budget in general. There's still a line. If you want to donate, donate your money! Mostly you have to donate your money. My own personal opinion is that this is cynical, that there is no point in donating, because I can't get the tax back. So whose money do you donate to the health insurance fund and pension funds, and are you a benefactor or something? Donate your money! I'm saying it's not right to ask for anything back in the case of donations. It should only be its own money, and the state budget should receive its own money in order to share it according to its own rules. This list is a compromise, and if you say that the compromise should start by saying that anyone who calls himself an NGO is exempt from tax, it is not an option.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U630	Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U631	Thank you. Dear Minister, I understand from the answer to Mr Lang's question that you believe that the list of non-profit organisations and foundations benefiting from income tax must be limited. What's your plan anyway? If this law enters into force, should this list remain the same or even shorter, or do you see any possibility of extension? What is really going to change about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U632	It's hard to tell if the list is going to be extended or shortened. I guess he tends to get longer. But there's an old buck left that shouldn't belong there. If the IRS has the decision, the IRS will be more clearly responsible for imposing the rules on them. The exempt NGO must comply with the rules by which we limit the exemption. I guess we've been discussing these things together in the government. These disputes have not been very heated, but there have been cases where there has been some embarrassment. Some arguers have not always been able to abstain.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U633	Thank you. Please, Rein Lang, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U634	Thank you. In a parliamentary debate, I would like to say that I think it is insane to keep the list you keep at the Ministry of Finance. But why do you think donating to the non-profit organisation Miki goes to Mere to the Estonian Cultural Endowment free of income tax and not to the Estonian Cultural Endowment under public law? What could such a logic be based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U635	I don't know such a non-profit organization. But once again, anyone who wants to pay no tax to the state must comply with certain rules. He's got to cross that bar. That's the list. You're saying this is crazy. But then all the budgetary debates you have presented as Minister of Culture are insane. Then you don't need money in the budget. Be persistent!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U636	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like to make a brief presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U637	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at 683 meetings, 3 June and 9 June. The first of these was attended by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, and both were attended by the officials of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro and Elo Haugas. The purpose of the draft law is to organise the principles and procedures for drawing up the list of non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations benefiting from the income tax exemption provided for in § 11 of the Income Tax Act, to resolve the problems encountered in the implementation of the law, as well as to clarify the meaning of the law. There is also a need to make changes to the new forms of declaration to be implemented from next year. The draft reduces the tax burden on labour, including the tax burden on low-paid people, as the tax-free rate increases from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month. The Social Tax Act is amended as a result of the amendment of one of the tax exemption limits in the Income Tax Act. The Estonian Cultural Endowment Act is also amended by amending the Income Tax Act to ensure the exemption from income tax on grants paid by cultural capital. In addition, the Council of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia is authorised to approve the basis for the payment of the prizes, scholarships and grants paid by the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. I will now give an overview of the issues and issues that were discussed in the Commission. There was a question of whether the bill would solve the issue of sports clubs scholarships. The initiator of the draft act explained that the problem was weak control. Scholarships are paid instead of wages and taxes are not paid. These problems have been identified by the checks carried out by the Tax Administration. It was now examined whether the definition of scholarship was given unambiguously and intelligibly. The Commission also considered the acquisition cost of the assets acquired as an inheritance. The initiator of the draft act explained this on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Court. The Court found that there was no provision in tax law to prevent the right to deduct the acquisition cost from being transferred to the heir. At the same time, it has not been dealt with in this way in practice and has been based on the situation that has been the case in practice in taxation. The gift and the legacy should be treated equally. Both recipients acquire property free of charge. Thus, in the case of sales, the benefit is the sale price of the entire transaction resulting from the disposal of the assets. Taxation takes place when the property is transferred, not when the inheritance is received. The initiator of the draft act also explained that personal property is not taxable. The amendment to the Social Tax Act concerning the food standard for the crew was also addressed. The Commission asked whether it should not increase the amount of the external mission limit at all and whether the current arrangements were effective and fair. The prices and salaries have gone up. The principles for drawing up a preferential list of non-profit organisations were also discussed and it was examined why it would be prepared by the Tax and Customs Board instead of the government. The question was also about the impact of the scholarship provisions on how much more taxes will be collected from sports clubs, how and in what amount the compensation will be paid and how many will pay instead of the scholarship. There was a question of the taxation of agricultural subsidies. The initiator of the draft act explained that they were grants due to a shortfall in revenue. No direct tax shall be levied on grants. The Income Tax Act states that the benefits paid under the Act are exempt from tax, but different ministries have drawn up a number of laws that have been documented in various forms of grants. The Commission also asked why it is necessary to amend the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. The second session discussed more detailed questions on the taxation of inheritances, as well as the taxation by the employer of the provision of aid to persons with disabilities. Once again, clarification was requested on the taxation of agricultural payments. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by Tuesday 10 June, from which it was transferred to today. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. It was also proposed that the first reading be completed, with 6 people in favour, 3 against, and 1 abstention. The Commission proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 16 June. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U638	Thank you very much. The question is on Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U639	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Three pages are devoted to raising the tax-free rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154 in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, and it can be considered that its impact is extremely high, I would say, even global. If this rate rises from EUR 144 to EUR 154, how much more money will a person have?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U640	Twenty per cent of 10 euros remains, you can calculate it yourself, you don't have to ask me. Yes, this global change could have been made earlier, the previous coalition could have been more initiative. In fact, this increase is, of course, tangible; it concerns all beneficiaries, all those who submit the tax return, not only those who receive the income from wages. In this respect, it covers more than 620000 declarations. Clearly, this is a necessary step to reduce the tax burden on the beneficiaries of the reduced income. And this increase in the tax-free minimum rate is certainly not a definitive one; this will have to be considered in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U641	Thank you very much. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U642	Thank you. Indeed, this is a necessary and important step. Good waitress, don't be shy, just say, for the sake of the verbatim, how much is that 20% of the ten euros? How much victory is there for every taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U643	The tax-free minimum amount per year is EUR 1800 with nothing; I cannot find the exact amount now quickly. It still makes quite a lot of money a year. If you count the monthly amount, it's 12 times smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U644	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Any requests? Inara Luigas, are you speaking on behalf of the group? Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U645	Inara Luis is on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U646	Got it. First, however, I will give the floor to Helir-Valdor Seeder on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U647	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act is one of the laws of the whole, a package of amendments to the laws with which the temporary government wishes to fulfil the promises of the Coalition Agreement. This includes the amendment of the Road Act, which involves patching up budget holes instead of patching up road holes, and the cancellation of the parental pension until 1 January 2018, which concerns more than 200000 Estonian families, and which was said by the representative of the Government in the Finance Committee that this amendment would not have undesirable effects. But now about the bill we're discussing. First of all, an increase in the tax-free rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154, which the member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who had encountered great difficulties before me, gives a victory of EUR 2 per month. In principle, this is certainly the right step, a step in the right direction, which is also supported by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, but we do not think that this is enough. In our view, the taxation of people on a low salary of EUR 300-400 is highly questionable, both morally and socio-economically. This could be a cross-party debate, where we would seriously look for solutions so that in the future we do not tax low-paid people who, in most cases, need either municipal or state aid. With the increase in the tax-free rate, it is unclear why the government does not want to legitimise it four years in advance. After all, the increase in the rate of 10 euros has been fixed in the country's budget strategy and confirmed by the government every year until 2018. In the case of excise duties, the behaviour is different: their increase will be fixed by law in the coming years. We believe that the annual increase in the tax-free rate should also be fixed in the law, all the more so since, as I have already said, this has been confirmed by the government in the country's budget strategy. Go on, scholarship theme. That has already been discussed. The desire for equal treatment between sports clubs and cultural institutions is justified, as is the desire for a clear distinction between scholarships and pay. These rules should be understandable and applicable to all. But the definition in the draft doesn't help us even a gram. This is so interpretationable in so many ways, and in fact the tax office will have to analyse each case separately in the future and interpret the law in the light of it. The greatest concern may be that the sport sector is being taken away from just over EUR 10 million a year. It is true that the government has planned to allocate EUR 3.5 million to the Ministry of Culture to cover the scholarships of young coaches, but this does not compensate for the damage suffered by the whole sector, which is more than 10 million. In addition, cultural money, the size of which is very difficult to estimate. We should certainly think about how to ensure a soft landing on the transition. Next, the tax treatment of subsidies with income tax. It doesn't make any sense what the principle of choice has been. For example, the substitute worker's allowance will continue to be subject to income tax, but there will be no breeding aid and no market development aid. All these grants are paid from the budget of the Estonian state. The replacement worker's allowance shall be that of the weakest and weakest farmers. It doesn't make any sense why this choice. Further, payments under the European Union's law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy. They have also been chosen: 21 grants are taxed and a dozen are not taxed. It doesn't make any sense why this choice. This certainly does not mean more equal treatment; on the contrary, unequal treatment is getting worse. I very much hope that we will be able to reach a fairer solution during the draft procedure. And is it even reasonable to tax these subsidies in this form if both the Environmental Investment Centre and the EAS are excluded from taxation and the total receipts of these taxes would amount to EUR 1.5 million per year? A few words about keeping a list of NGOs and taking decisions on them from government level to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. This is something that has been re-decided several times. Once the Ministry of Finance made decisions, then the government, now they're trying to get it under the Tax and Customs Board. I think that the substance of the matter does not change very much, and so far it was the case that, at the level of the government, several embarrassing proposals from the Ministry of Finance were eliminated. Now this sieve disappears, and I am not sure that it will improve quality. I will come back to the subject of my speech for a moment. My colleague from the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that, thanks to an increase in the tax-free rate, a person should win EUR 1800 a year. No, it's not like that! He said if we divide this number by 12, we get a month's worth. It's not like that! This amount is actually EUR 2 and three pages are devoted to this EUR 2 in the explanatory memorandum. It is said that the amendment of the law '... the aggregated economic and social impact is large. [---] The social impact of the changes is reflected through the higher incomes of the target groups, which extends the potential for consumption and saving for all, but especially for those on low incomes and thus improves coping. Increased consumption has a positive economic impact on companies whose sales revenue is increasing. There is also an indirect impact on the receipts of consumption taxes. [---] Additional economic impact for the target group earning wage income. The impact will be on the overall reduction in the tax burden on labour and the increase in employment in two interlinked formats. " So these 2 euros per month will have a major global impact on the Estonian economy and the people of Estonia, according to the explanatory memorandum. I want to pay tribute to the official of the Ministry of Finance who wrote this paragraph in the explanatory statement. I'm sure he deserves some kind of literary prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U648	Thank you very much. Does Aivar Sõerd want a reply in response to the previous performer? The name was not mentioned, but the subject was mentioned. Okay, then you can't. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Tamm Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U649	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This problem comes back to 2009 when the obligation of local authorities to deal with young people was abolished. That is when the questions began, who still have to deal with youth sport, how young coaches are remunerated and how they are taxed. I think it was a big mistake, and the consequences of this mistake we are now trying to sort out somehow. In my opinion, it is directly the task of local authorities to engage in youth sport. This obligation should be fixed by law and, at the same time, by funding it so that young people can really do sport. In my opinion, the EUR 3.5 million that the Ministry of Culture is planning to allocate from next year's budget should be on the local authorities' list. The municipalities themselves decide whether they guarantee sports activities through sports schools or sports clubs. As far as top sport is concerned, I believe that there must be an unambiguous understanding of how to implement scholarships. The Minister at least gave us the hope that we would not have to go back in history and remember old things, which would actually mean that most sports clubs in Estonia would probably end their existence. The main problem of Estonian sport is that there are no supporters, or sponsors. I would remind you that about 50% of large companies belong to foreign owners. The Estonian market is not attractive enough to put out its ads and support sport. However, our entrepreneurs are not motivated either. In my opinion, businesses should somehow be motivated by taxes so that our sport does not disappear completely. One step could be to allow state companies to support sport, which is a good opportunity. For example, through a sports club, the Port of Tallinn could be the main sponsor. Unlike Latvia and Lithuania, where state support for sport is quite effective, unfortunately it is not done in Estonia for some reason. As long as there is no solution for future support for sport, we have no assurance that the current confusion will not continue. I hope, however, that this bill will provide some clarity on how to proceed. Really, we'd end the last period without getting into it too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U650	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party in Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U651	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if Helir-Valdor Seeder was still in the hall when I made my presentation. I welcome him, and I want to tell him that when he discovered, when he read the explanatory statement of the bill, that there are three pages of talk about who wins and how much he wins from raising the tax-free rate, he ironed the benefits completely without justification. Every euro that remains in a person's pocket is actually a big step forward, and we Social Democrats are delighted that such a bill has come to this Riigikogu. IRL once spoke about very important steps and a large rise in the tax-free rate of return, but for some reason these stories remained stories. Moreover, when this draft law was dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the IRL opposed it. Such a small answer from me to Helir-Valdor Seeder. But if you look at this bill more broadly, in fact, both the IMF and the OECD have prescribed Estonia that people on small wages should have greater incentives to work. Estonia also needs to make more efforts to reduce labour taxes. The recent problem that this bill is trying to solve is how and who will use a tax-free scholarship to pay work and service fees. There is no news to anyone that the payment of scholarships has been abused. This is the most important problem with the list of companies benefiting from income tax in recent times. This draft seeks to give the best possible definition of scholarship, but the practice will soon respond, and maybe it needs to be adjusted a little bit more. In case of doubt as to whether the payment was made correctly or not, the Tax and Customs Board shall retain the right to consider the issue of each scholarship. I am also very much in favour of the innovations made to improve compliance that exclusion from the list can come when scholarships are awarded, for example, to persons associated with the association, not to organise a public scholarship competition, or a scholarship is paid when there is actually an employment relationship. Once again, the tax authority retains discretion in case of doubt, it may decide whether the scholarship was correctly awarded. Very many non-profit organisations have even resorted to such a practice that they have included in their statutory activities the payment of scholarships and thus made untaxed scholarships payments. This regulation will also be regulated, the payment of scholarships will become more correct. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U652	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U653	As far as subsidies are concerned, the idea of their exemption has been primarily of a social nature. After all, all the benefits paid to people are intended not to impair people's livelihood. Why, then, tax these subsidies? But people have always been resourceful, and support funds that should actually be taxed are also being paid under the support label. The former Minister of Agriculture is well aware that many agricultural subsidies are paid not to self-employed persons, but simply to natural persons. Those persons should actually be in the same register as undertakings and, in any event, would have paid the tax on the aid. It is also a good thing that the draft law formulates the nature of the charitable activity: the company must provide the benefit mainly free of charge or in any other way that does not require income or is available to the general public. Which does not mean that every person should have access to the goods or services or other benefits offered by the association, but it should also be accessible to people with lower than average incomes. I believe that in all people involved in scholarships to cultural capital, the planned changes in the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act raised a number of questions. But having read and examined the draft, I can assure you that the payment of scholarships through cultural capital will become clearer and this whole situation will be better. All scholarships paid through cultural capital shall be treated as national scholarships and shall be exempt from income tax. The procedures for the award of other grants and bonuses will also be organised. The definition of scholarship is very necessary, the regulation of scholarships and disbursements become more legal. After all, the payment of any undue tax-free grant, bonus or scholarship is a tax fraud and reduces the income from money to the state budget. Now for the end. It is believed that in the 16th century, schools in Tallinn were paid and the parents had to pay for educating the children. In this century, however, Tallinn's government was smart enough to set up a scholarship to train officials, lawyers and pastors at German universities. The lore tells us that when Old Thomas was a boy, he intervened in the adult game and shot a parrot with his game bow down from the stick of a parrot. The real shooters were upset that the boy ruined the adult game and wanted to punish him. The mayor, however, forbade the punishers and took Thomas to study for the city's money in order to make a man with a good hand into a city watchman. In essence, Vana Toomas received a scholarship from the city and became a city watcher after graduating from the city school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U654	Helir-Valdor Seeder was named in the speech; he has the right to rejoinder.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U655	Thank you. I want to thank the waitress for spending the whole minute of her barely eight minutes talking about me. But, for the sake of the verbatim, I say once again that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have always believed that if we reduce the tax burden on the employee, in particular by raising the tax-free rate, not by lowering the tax rate. I don't want it to sound wrong here. We still say our own thoughts with our own mouths. Thank you, Inara, but read more about the Fatherland and Res Publica Union programme and political positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U656	Thank you. Can we now continue the debate on the bill? On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U657	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the Reform Party Group, I call on you to support this draft. In particular, it creates legal clarity on many of the issues at issue concerning the taxation of scholarships, the procedure for listing and excluding non-profit organisations benefiting from a tax credit, the increase in the tax exemption rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month and the tax treatment of inheritances. Legal clarity is also increasing on this issue. As regards the question by my colleague, Mr Valmar Kiisler, I have already answered that question. I replied that the amount of the effect is 20% of the tax rate from EUR 10 to EUR 2, you can calculate for yourself that this is EUR 24 per year. I'm sorry if I answered you wrong at first, but I gave you an answer to the last question. But when I come back to the bill, I would like to say that the taxation of scholarships that have caused a lot of legal confusion and misunderstanding will certainly now be better regulated than it has been so far. The problem is that scholarships are paid as salaries or wages are paid under the name of a scholarship, which has led to legal disputes between sports associations and the Tax and Customs Board. There is no need for such legal disputes. It is important to organise the basis for drawing up the list of non-profit organisations benefiting from a tax credit. The competence to decide on the associations on this list is entrusted to the Tax and Customs Board, as this institution is best able to assess the conformity of the activities of each company with the applicable rules. The taxation of agricultural subsidies, which have given rise to a great deal of talk, will certainly create additional legal clarity. The current situation is that a smaller proportion of the beneficiaries of agricultural payments are natural persons to whom the benefits granted are not taxed, while the lease income is taxed when these persons lease land. Certainly, however, the Tax Act does not recommend preventing the lease of arable land. It is very important to create legal clarity in this area. My proposal is to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U658	Thank you. Sven Sester, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U659	Yes! Thank you, Mr President. You know, I'm worried. In the meantime, I noticed that the Minister of Finance was very tired. We are currently working on a draft of the Government of the Republic, which was presented by the Minister of Finance, but he has not been in the Chamber for a long time. Do you have any information, she's gone, she doesn't want to know what's being discussed in the hall, or are there any other problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U660	The Riigikogu has no information about the fate of the Minister of Finance. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu, the proposal of the commission is to finish the first reading of Bill 683. On a proposal from the Commission, I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments. a 16 June at 3 p.m. Urmas Reinsalu, please, a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U661	I have a question that also concerns the Minister of Finance. On Monday, the Minister of Finance could not be present at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and now, at the end of the discussion in plenary, we have no information about his fate. Does the Chairman of the Riigikogu know whether the minister is in the building or has gone further?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U662	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! If you have any procedural questions about the draft procedure, I'd be happy to answer. I'm obliged to do this. The place of the members of the Government of the Republic in time and space is not covered by procedural questions. The first reading of Bill 683 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U663	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on reform of the local government organisation initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Siim Kiisler, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U664	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will start with what Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder emphasised five years ago, in 2009. I quote: 'The procedures of the Chancellor of Justice have shown that a very large part of the local government units in Estonia are too small to effectively and effectively exercise constitutional self-government. [---] I am of the opinion that a large number of municipalities are unable to guarantee the fundamental rights of individuals, the quality of their organisation and procedures according to the Constitution, as well as legislation, is a sufficient and compelling reason for the rapid and decisive intervention of the state and for the introduction of a new administrative arrangement. Estonia must become strong and functioning municipalities that ensure constitutional treatment for their residents, regulation of quality local governments and access to public services evenly across the country. The state authority has a constitutional obligation to establish administrative arrangements in which fundamental rights of persons would have been protected and the Constitution respected. The overall increase in the level of protection of fundamental rights potentially achieved by the decisive administrative reform should outweigh any other consequences for individuals and political parties, whether the loss of some officials' jobs or the loss of the party's political stronghold on the ground. Whether the state power can carry out a decisive administrative reform is actually an indication of the extent to which the state power is able to ensure compliance with constitutional obligations across Estonia. ' The proposed draft law aims to create a viable and comprehensive local government structure following the election of local government councils in October 2017. The proposed reform will result in an increase in the overall capacity of local authorities, thereby ensuring that citizens are treated more equally, regardless of their place of residence. The greater capacity of local authorities is ensured, in particular, by their sufficient size and overlap with the area of everyday life of their inhabitants. Size shall be measured in particular by the number of inhabitants. For example, the municipality of Märjamaa is five and a half times larger than Tallinn, yet in the context of the size of the municipalities, we are talking about Tallinn as much larger. Some facts as a reminder. The difference between the largest and the smallest local government in Estonia is 4133 times, while the difference between the budgets of these local governments is 5,265 times. The 40th rural municipality of Estonia and the city have fewer than 1000 inhabitants. Forty municipalities and cities, and the number of such municipalities is increasing! With fewer than 2000 inhabitants, half of Estonia's municipalities are located in Estonia. With less than 3,000 inhabitants, there are two thirds of our municipalities and cities. It is precisely where the geographical location is less favourable that our municipalities are generally smaller and more fragmented. These two factors, in combination, mean less capacity for the municipalities of such regions, and this also entails unequal treatment of the citizens of the municipalities to which the Chancellor of Justice has referred. The impact assessment carried out during the drafting of the draft has identified a number of areas where the impact can be considered significant. For further impact assessment, expert assessments were commissioned and possible impacts were discussed with industry ministries and other interested parties. Worked on a number of sectoral working groups. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal describes the effects very thoroughly, but I will briefly mention some of the more important. First of all, the population. Our population is shrinking and ageing. According to the baseline scenario drawn up by Statistics Estonia, the number of inhabitants in remote municipalities will decrease more rapidly by 2020, almost twice as fast as local authorities at marginalisation risk. Decreases in population, ageing and relocation have a direct impact on the sustainability of municipalities. As a result of the reform, the gender and age composition of the municipal population will be balanced. The reform will make up for particularly extreme situations where, for example, the majority of the population is common for older people, so the municipality's income base depends predominantly on state subsidies. The study concerning the merger of municipalities between 1996 and 1999 showed that the merger of the centre of attraction and the hinterland resulted in a logical whole. The merger eliminated the artificial inconveniences caused by the administrative border, as the inhabitants of the merging municipalities used common infrastructures, work and ownership relations were intertwined, services were provided in common buildings, etc. The new municipality had a higher number of inhabitants, a more stable age structure and better conditions for implementing sectoral policies. Second of all, the officer's office. In larger municipalities, officials can specialise in one area and use human resources more efficiently than they do now, hire officials full-time and pay them competitive wages. Such a municipality is an attractive employer for real professionals in its field. The most important and immediate shift in mergers is the cardinal change in the profile of the official body. In small municipalities there are 6 to 8 full-time officials, of whom, apart from the municipality's elder, accountant and parish secretary, are usually only social workers with a clear profile, rarely a few other key-time officials. In large municipalities, the number of officials who have focused on one particular task is increasing, so officials become more professional. According to the 2008 survey, the number of monofunctional officials in pre-accession municipalities studied increased from an average of 8 to 26. For example, in the large municipalities of Raplamaa there are about 90% of the monofunctional officials, but small municipalities need professional support from other municipalities in almost all positions. Financial opportunities. The investment capacity of the merged municipalities has increased several times, while the loan burden has remained the same. Investments per capita have been consistently higher in the merged municipalities than in the unjoined municipalities. One aspect of which leads the merged municipalities to achieve greater investment capacity is the increase in scale and the resulting greater fiscal investment capacity. Another important variable is the increase in loan capacity and the ability to use the loan to invest and develop the municipality. There is a clear link between the small size of the municipality and the increase in the share of government expenditure: the merged municipalities do not aim for savings in government expenditure, but rather for increased expertise and adequate remuneration, which led to an increase in government expenditure in all of them, but a decrease in the share of government expenditure in the budget. The overview of municipal social benefits shows that the financial volume and qualification of the benefits vary widely. In the case of accession, social protection for the inhabitants of the region can be guaranteed on a uniform basis. If the capacity of the municipality is greater, those regions where more social problems have accumulated can be helped to create better living conditions for more deprived and needy members of society whose chances are lower than those of the rest. Education. In small municipalities, according to the survey, two to three times more budget money was spent per student than in large municipalities. This was both due to higher wage costs for teachers and to higher management costs. During the 2006-2011 period, educational costs per pupil increased by 40% in small municipalities, while the merged municipalities increased by 10%. Thus, in small municipalities, the necessary level of education can only be guaranteed at the expense of other sectors. According to experts who studied foreign traineeships, it is incomprehensible how the municipality can maintain the right to organise education and the possibility, for example, where 75% of children do not go to schools in the same municipality. The business environment. If the administrative boundaries of local government overlap with the actual area of activity of people and the jobs are located close to home, the daily movement of the oppressive majority of people will remain within the borders of one municipality. Today, over 70% of people living outside the city move to work outside their municipality of residence. The reform will create real motivation for municipalities to engage in business development, as most of the rural municipality's people live and work in the same field. As entrepreneurship develops, the income from personal income tax will also increase in the local government's budget. Creating business areas, activating people and preparing for the needs of the labour market, negotiating with businesses and using other entrepreneurship and labour market activation mechanisms are tasks that are clearly beyond the reach of small self-governments. Finally, civil society and local democracy. The remoteness of authorities and peripheralisation is one of the central fears in the planning of mergers. At the same time, interviews conducted in the course of the studies have pointed out that the periphery was already a periphery before accession, and this trend can only be slowed down. Merging the Centre and its logical hinterland will strengthen the cohesion of the city and the land, as administrative boundaries will disappear when the approach to development starts to be based on the principle of the integrity of the municipality. The broadening of the borders increases the strategic nature of the activities of the rural municipalities and gives them greater responsibility to shape local life in a larger picture than before. Qualitative analyses, as well as surveys, have confirmed that villages and a sense of community unity will be activated in the merged municipality. As a result of accession, citizens will become more aware of the importance of their organisation and active citizenship. Organised citizens have a greater influence on all municipal policies, not just on solving individual problems. In the polls, almost half of citizens and most officials found that community unity has increased since local governments joined. In the merged municipalities, competition for council seats is growing, and citizens will have more choice as to which candidates to support. This, in turn, extends local democracy and makes it possible to balance differences of opinion. According to a study carried out in 2012, 43% of household representatives had visited the local parish house or city government in the last 12 months. Thus, there is no reason to fear that officials will move away from the population. Meeting with officials is not so much important, but the quality of the meeting, whether the citizen can solve his or her problem or proposal. The latter depends on the official's expertise, which can certainly be guaranteed more in a larger municipality than in a small municipality, offering the official a challenging job and a higher salary. Honourable Riigikogu! In 1938 and 1939, a rural municipality reform based on Christaller's theory of centres was carried out under the leadership of the government, which left 248 rural municipalities in Estonia instead of 372. Now it's been 75 years. Life has changed a lot, and long ago it is time to take another strong step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U665	Questions for the waitress. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U666	Dear waitress, Your draft describes a strange Estonia in which some counties have one and some eight attraction centers. But in this bill, I didn't find the concept of county at all. Can you tell us, on the basis of your bill, which function, place and meaning will then be left to the county, or are you denying anything like a county identity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U667	The county is such an interesting concept. The Estonian Constitution does not deal with counties either. County identity is very strong in some counties and relatively weak in others. It is permitted to join across the borders of the county, and as we know, the boundaries of the counties have changed very strongly in Estonia historically. That's why this different identity comes from. In those counties where one municipality is formed as a result of the merger, it is reasonable and very practical to transfer these tasks, which are self-governing and which are currently carried out by the county government, not as such, but as a rural government, to the local government. The more we can do this, the better and more reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U668	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U669	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue with the list of attraction centers that are in the law. At the moment, the attraction centers have been poured into the law, their list is certain and they have been designated one by one county. Have you considered that such listing of attraction centres at the level of the law may not be practical, because if any of the attraction centres wanted to be increased or some of them were to be lost, the law would have to be amended. The same question when we are talking about harmonisation of service levels. There are seven attraction centres in one county, there are six in Pärnumaa, there are two in the other county, there is one in the third. How is this picture so confusing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U670	As much as possible local opinion, county opinion were taken into account in the drafting of this bill. The system was built on a voluntary basis as far as possible. The counties were able to name these attraction centres themselves, and once the law was passed, the municipalities themselves can choose which attraction centre they want to join. However, there is also a point in the draft law that if no municipality wants to join any of the centres of attraction, it must join one of the municipalities in whose territory the centre of attraction is located. In fact, if, as a result of political or other agreements in some counties, there are at present an unreasonable number of attraction centres, life itself will settle the matter. If someone does not want to join the centre and wants to join the county centre, for example, then the municipality on the list will be forced to join. As a result, the voluntary process will lead to reasonable centres and, in the opinion of the county concerned, to an optimal structure. Now the picture is really uneven, but we did stick to it because the proposals came from the counties. The Riigikogu can, of course, propose amendments and revise this list; this option is always available to the legislator. On the other hand, this process is a one-off process, this draft law deals with a specific reform, and once it has been done, the current list will no longer matter afterwards. That is why the legislator does not have to change it after I understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U671	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U672	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We read about the explanatory memorandum and, when you presented the draft, you have said several times yourself, just a moment ago you said that the draft was prepared in close cooperation with the municipalities and local governments. At the same time, the representatives of both the Municipalities Association and the Cities Association at the meeting of the Commission on 3 June made it clear that, although the preparation of the draft has been long, there has been no dialogue between the parties, the process of designating the centres of attraction has been controversial and the results questionable and the title and content of the draft are not in line. On this basis, I will first of all ask whether the rapporteur agrees that the proposed draft is not a reform of the administration, but a reform of the administrative-territorial organisation. Secondly, should we, in the course of the further procedure, proceed with the title by doing a lot of work on the content, or should we look at it more simply and change the title?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U673	If you wish to change the title, if this is the case, then the initiator will probably agree with this proposal. As long as the bill is passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U674	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U675	Thank you. Good manager! Good waitress! Paragraph 6 (2) of this draft states, among other things, that the city of Kohtla-Järve, the city of Narva, the city of Sillamäe and Tallinn will be preserved as an independent administrative unit within the current limits. What do you say to the people of such beautiful old cities as Haapsalu, Rakvere, Viljandi, Pärnu and Tartu? How are they supposed to feel if the city remains in Narva and Sillamäe, but not in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U676	I find it reasonable for the cities listed to join at least some of the surrounding municipalities, and this has also been discussed in the case of Viljandi, for example. In any case, the city of Viljandi's accession to Viljandi municipality is probably reasonable in the short or long term, because they form a single area of operation together. But despite the merger, as a settlement unit, towns inside the municipality always remain cities. We have also introduced this point in the draft law: 'A local government unit with a city status with a population of at least 5000 may retain the status of a city in the unit of local government formed as a result of the merger if the population of the city accounts for at least 1/2 of the total number of local government units that have joined the city. 'So the answer is that they can also use the word 'city' in the name of a local government unit as the name of an administrative unit, not only in the case of a settlement unit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U677	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U678	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! We in the Committee on Rural Affairs had an interesting incident and a question. My good colleague from the Committee on Rural Affairs, a great expert in rural, agricultural, veterinary and local government policy, Kalev Lillo, asked the question that since he has seen this bill before and it has passed through the Ministry of the Interior, maybe you have stolen the bill and there is some way of dealing with copyright rights, that perhaps you have come before us illegally. Are you ready to comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U679	Thank you. Mr Lillo had such an interesting question. First of all, I would suggest that Mr Lillo, if he thinks that a crime has been committed somewhere, as a law-abiding citizen, address the prosecutor's office immediately. I think it would have a lot of style if Mr Lillo turned to the prosecutor's office on the question of Kisler's wish to carry out a municipal reform. However, more seriously, copyright law does not apply to draft laws, especially not to those developed for taxpayers' money. But I did some digging. Indeed, there are different practices in this Riigikogu. Today, for example, we had a debate on the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. This draft is initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs and is signed by Kaja Kallas. The explanatory memorandum states that the draft has been prepared by three officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is well set out in the explanatory memorandum. The same practice was followed by us when we presented our draft law, and the names of the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who drafted the bill were similarly mentioned. At the same time, there is a different practice in the Riigikogu, for example, the draft law on cohabitation has a large number of initiators, but it is not possible to identify from the explanatory memorandum who actually prepared this draft, it has not been mentioned anywhere. Very interesting to know. The practice has been different, but I think it is good practice to bring out the drafts honestly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U680	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U681	I also have a question that needs your comment as ex-minister. In fact, the Minister for Regional Affairs was involved in administrative reform in depth and at length, being a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I saw it with my own eyes. You visited the Commission several times and this is a well-developed document in itself. But here's my question. The new ministers have not approved the bill that is currently in the Chamber, the government does not support it, in short, the Reform Party does not support it. However, as your coalition partner, the Reform Party did not make any critical remarks about your work for five years. Why do you think they didn't tell you earlier that don't do it, it won't work? What could be back here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U682	Thank you. As regional minister, I submitted a draft law on administrative reform in 2009 and at that time the representatives of the Reform Party in the government took the same negative view. So the draft was not supported and was not submitted to the Riigikogu by the government. This was also one of the reasons why this draft has been developed on the basis of the principle that a voluntary aspect is taken into account as much as possible. The draft is quite liberal in this sense, that decisions have been taken on the ground. We have based ourselves on the principles which were criticised for the lack of a previous draft. Unfortunately, the government still didn't fit. But I am pleased that the Committee on Rural Affairs considered it necessary to proceed with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U683	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U684	Thank you, dear colleague. I have had a good opportunity to see the administrative reform being carried out side by side for 20 years. I remember the time when the regional minister was Peep Aru and we discussed how to carry out this reform by the river. We haven't gotten much further, it's exactly the same. Of course, I can't tell you how many rooms there are already somewhere in the Ministry, but I don't know what's being studied. I will give examples of the Baltic neighbouring countries. In Lithuania, the administrative reform was carried out immediately, and the county remained open. In Latvia, two years ago, the number of municipalities was reduced five times, from 500 to 100 and, as far as I know, they are going to the next round. As far as I am concerned, there is no country in the European Union in which the administrative reform would have been carried out voluntarily, perhaps you, as rapporteur, can say the opposite. Do you think that the state should now undertake this administrative reform in order to have one county and one rural municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U685	Thank you. Yes, the years have gone, but the problems have remained the same. It is very interesting to read the statements made by Peep Aru, then Minister of Regional Affairs, in the press. Anyone can get to know them. There are quite a number of similar principles in the current bill. Unfortunately, we are indeed tail joggers. You mentioned Latvia, which went ahead of us on this issue. Lithuania really did have a rather radical reform in the '90s. Lithuania has very strong municipalities, with an average population of about 60,000. Dwarf self-governments, disheartened parishes like we have, they don't. Similarly, Latvia is making significant progress. In Latvia, if anything is to be blamed for this reform, it is that the political agreements reached in Seim led to a somewhat uneven outcome. In part of the counties of Latvia, a municipality was formed in the county; in others, due to political agreements, it did not succeed, even though it was a clear wish of the then Latvian Minister for Regional Affairs. There are other countries that can be spoken of here. Finland is in the process, although the average number of municipalities in Finland is still larger than ours. The coalition agreement of their government union includes administrative reform. In Denmark, basically, the reform we are currently planning here was carried out in 1970 and in 2007 they took on the next, more vigorous phase. This draft does indeed provide for such a flexible mechanism, which may leave a more fragmented picture, but if sensible decisions are made in the county and the municipalities agree, this mechanism does not rule out the emergence of a single municipality in the county. He will be able to reach such a solution very nicely when all the smaller municipalities join in the direction of the county centre. In principle, this draft does not even rule out the emergence of a single municipality within, for example, two counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U686	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U687	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for your comprehensive presentation of the bill. But I do have one question. You're based on the assumption that the bigger one is better, the bigger one is more successful, and the size is 5,000. In this case, you are actually forcing the municipalities of Ülenurme, Saue, Saku and Jõelähtme, where there are now over 5,000 inhabitants and which are very successful municipalities. Why would they do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U688	Thank you. Paragraph 6 (1) of the draft law states that by 2 March 2015 at the latest, the Government of the Republic shall initiate the merger of municipalities and cities with the organisation of local government units which do not fulfil the conditions laid down in subsection 2 (2) of this Act and have not submitted a merger decision. Under these conditions, if you look at § 2, in turn, this requirement of 5000 inhabitants is stated. So, in this sense, there is no coercive mechanism for the large municipalities that act as an area of action.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U689	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U690	Thank you. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your good work as Regional Minister and as a fighter for a fierce administrative reform. But I have a philosophical question about the self-government rather than the nature of it. Do you think that the tasks and responsibilities currently imposed on the municipalities are justified or could some of these tasks be taken away from them and resolved nationally? You also mentioned civil society in your introduction, perhaps the municipality could again delegate some of the simpler tasks to civil society? For the more difficult things to do and for the simpler ones to give in to civil society, maybe we wouldn't need such strong self-governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U691	I'll start at the back. If the municipalities are larger, there is more room for action for civil society organisations. What we see in small municipalities is that the municipality government often acts as a village society. He takes up the role of the village society and organises the life of the village. In my ideal, the municipality should be at a higher level and these very micro tasks, dealing with the so-called village swings, could be left to civil society organisations. However, for this to happen, the municipality itself must also have a scale. In the case of very small municipalities, we see that this oxygen or room for manoeuvre for civil society organisations, as is not the case. In fact, when they communicate with village activists, they say that they feel the jealousy or envy of a parish elder when the village society becomes too strong, even in small ways. One village is such an important unit for the municipality that the municipality government or the municipal council can often work against the activities of the village society. The municipality should have more territory, more influence and more important things to do, let the village society have its own things. The problem with Estonia is, above all, that our municipalities have such different capacities. That's the worst part, not so much that some are small, but just that some are big and some are very small. The tasks are all the same, but as I said, if two thirds of the population are less than 3,000, then ultimately they select the tasks: they choose and say that there is no money for everything, we do some things, some things remain unfulfilled. And minority municipalities then really try to carry out all the tasks and perhaps also to assume voluntary tasks that are not directly attributable to the law. It follows from the fact that the smaller municipalities, which are in the majority, carry out the tasks assigned to them selectively, is what the Chancellor of Justice says: citizens are treated unequally. Another consequence is that our ministries, referring to the fact that municipalities cannot carry out their tasks by referring to these same mini-governments, often want to take on more things to organise a sub-office of the central government or some ministry. I believe that municipalities should be stronger. Some of the tasks currently performed by the state could rather be carried out by municipalities. But the prerequisite for this is a certain capacity. There is a great deal of talk about this in the Nordic countries, where it analyses what the limit should be, from which additional tasks can be assigned to municipalities. The Nordic experts say that the minimum size of the tasks that the local authorities have could be 30000 inhabitants. The political agreement in the countries is generally that there could be 20000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U692	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I agree with my groupmate Tarmo Tamm that there is a need for self-government or administrative reform in Estonia. As we go on like this, we're moving more and more into traffic year after year. In 2005, I was able to be one of the members of the great community of Suure-Jaani, and in response to my colleague Kalev Lillo, I can say that it is better than four small ones. In retrospect, almost ten years later, it can be said that the decision at that time was correct. In my opinion, this draft lacks only a part of the financing model and a clearer division of tasks; at present, it is perhaps somewhat too technical. However, since we are discussing a specific draft today, I did not find an answer there as to whether, in the future, it will be possible for municipalities with no common borders to join. If, for example, in Viljandi County, where the attraction centers are Viljandi city and Suur-Jaani, Võhma wants to join Viljandi, is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U694	Thank you. First of all, speaking of my own experience, in my previous work as Regional Minister, I had a great deal of contact with local activists in the municipalities that joined the village societies. I have also met people who are not satisfied with the fact that they have joined, or have said that this could have been done differently. But such people are surprisingly few, they are really few people whom I, as Regional Minister, have heard for several years express such an opinion. Most still say not to reverse this merger under any circumstances. As far as the common border is concerned, I do not find this paragraph so quickly, but there is a requirement that there must be a common border. At one point in the government union, we discussed these issues, the same issues that Jaak Allik asked whether the county border was an influence on the merger, whether there should be a different approach to mergers across the county and whether there should be a common border. The compromise or decision the government union then reached was that there must be a common border, but the county border is not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U695	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U696	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I couldn't help but hear the statement that we didn't even have a county in our constitution. At the same time, in our legislation, the county is established as a state administrative unit. The mayors were all your faithful helpers. The state has given legal obligations, I think 78 laws give responsibilities to rural governments. Do you really think it makes sense that we solve the issue of state authority on the ground in a single move and that the municipality is ready to take over the functions of county government? There must be a major legislative change. Would you like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U697	Thank you. First, the county and county government are constantly confused. The county government is one of the state agencies and the county is a territorial unit. Today, our rural governments carry out two types of tasks. Some are purely national tasks, in particular those relating to supervision. Local authorities will be monitored. It is clear that if, for example, there is one municipality in Hiiumaa, there must be a state agency that supervises the activities of the local government. Whether it is one agency or there are agencies in different fields, it is a matter of debate. For example, should education supervision be carried out on an official basis or on a geographical unit basis? On the other hand, the current government of Hiiumaa, for example, performs the task of subsidising public transport. In my opinion, this is essentially the task of the municipality. This could be dealt with by the municipality. The central government could calmly allocate money from the state budget to this one of Hiiu's municipalities, Hiiu rural municipality, and then let the local authorities make decisions on how to distribute public transport subsidies. It is far more reasonable for people who decide how to share public transport support to be chosen on the ground rather than being appointed by the central government, as is currently the case. It is clear that some national tasks remain. However, there are many examples of how counties are helped to prepare for song festivals, organise substance Olympics, or do something else that is essentially self-governing and should be part of the local organisation of life, they should not be done through public authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U698	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U699	Dear waitress, One of the surprising places in the draft is for me where you write that the Minister of Regional Affairs, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, is preparing for the amendment of the Government of the Republic Act and other legislation to abolish the office of Minister of Regional Affairs from 1 January 2018. The current government coalition lost this place in one day, and I didn't think it was wise. But I want to ask you whether you, working for years as Regional Minister, really considered the preparation of municipal reform to be the sole function of the Minister of Regional Affairs. When this reform has been carried out, will you no longer see the need for the seat of the Minister of Regional Affairs in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U700	Thank you. I guess that was a compromise in some ways. The leaders on the ground often asked that you see our places here you want to lose and put together, but at national level you do not want to make any changes. This, too, was one of the motives behind this proposal. But you're wrong about the fact that the current government union has lost the position of regional minister on a daily basis. The regional minister has been appointed, works and acts. I would point out that this bill was passed to the Riigikogu before the Government Association submitted a draft law amending the Government Act. So we're talking about one day, you're kind of on the wrong track here. Nothing happened on the day, and the draft amendment to the Government of the Republic Act is, as far as I know, the second reading tomorrow. It is true that its procedure has moved faster than that of the draft law currently under discussion. As regards the tasks of the Regional Minister, more than six years on a day-to-day basis, as such, I can say that the work of the Regional Minister and the officials under his authority is largely linked to the problems that result from the fact that we have many very small municipalities that cannot carry out their duties. In the area of the Minister for Regional Affairs, there are population operations which are constantly experiencing problems with the lack of competence of small government officials in certain activities. Similarly, there are problems in the area of planning that there are no specialists in small municipalities. These areas may be further mentioned where such problems are constantly encountered. If the Minister of Regional Affairs would continue in his seat, he would still have much less work if the municipal reform were implemented. The second solution would be to assign more areas to him after the completion of the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U701	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U702	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 15 of the Bill lists all that is planned to be done after the adoption of the Bill. For example, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Minister of Regional Affairs, analyses the organisation of local government financing, while the Minister of Regional Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, analyses the functions and working arrangements of rural governments. The draft sets out a network of attraction centres, point by point listing who should join and around whom, while the substantive functions and funding are planned to be analysed after the decision has been taken. Would you be so kind as to explain that logic again? After all, we know that the funding of local governments and the tasks we give them also depend directly on their size and their ability to cope with the tasks. How does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U703	Thank you. The size doesn't depend on how much money we give. The size depends on whether or not they join, how many inhabitants there are, how fast the population is falling. However, the size of the tasks that can be assigned to the municipality depends on their size. There is no point in giving educational arrangements to a municipality with a hundred inhabitants. There's no point! We have municipalities with 100 inhabitants, nothing can be done, we have municipalities with 400 inhabitants. We have 40 municipalities with fewer than 1000 inhabitants. It really does not make much sense to give them some assignments. First step A must be taken and then step B can be taken. It is clear, as I said before, that there is no precise definition of who should join with this law mechanism. You are wrong about that. Let the municipalities decide which attraction center they join in. And like I said, the result can be quite different. These municipalities may have 5,000 inhabitants, but it may happen that everything is at least 50,000 people, which is also possible. By the way, when this new, more radical self-government reform was carried out in Denmark, they set a minimum of 20000 inhabitants. And what did they notice? The fact that when large municipalities saw that the state would unite small and small into their size, the larger began to unite with each other, so that they would continue to have this advantage of greater capacity. The Danish minister admitted that they did not really think that the larger municipalities voluntarily merged in turn and still maintained a certain competitive advantage. It certainly depends on the size of the municipalities, which tasks can be given to them exactly. And it has to be weighed separately each time. After all, we know that the Riigikogu is also constantly discussing whether any task should be performed by a more public authority or whether it should be done by local authorities. I guess it's time-changing. However, I believe that the principles for allocating the Equalisation Fund should change. You should become such that the geographical location of the municipality is strongly taken into account. Those municipalities which are in a disadvantaged location should have a higher compensatory fund factor. Not like now, if the municipality is good and earns more, it gets less of a fine-tuning fund. I think that such a connection must definitely be reduced. I'd rather be that if you're in a disadvantageous location, you'll get more equalization. If, for example, you are in the immediate vicinity of the capital city, you may not be able to obtain a fine-tuning fund at all, but income will not be taken away if the municipality is well run and earns more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U704	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I will continue on the subject of Ida-Viru County. You have named a number of attraction centers there in our eastern region: Narva, Narva-Jõesuu, Sillamäe. They're practically within reach. What is the future of these attraction centers? Eight minutes is the road between Narva and Narva-Jõesuu, 15 minutes, maybe less takes to go from Narva to Sillamäe. I'm not talking about a park zone between these municipalities or attraction centers. That's the first half of the question. The second is the same one that Mr Stalnukhin erected. It turns out that this neighborhood is in an unequal position again, it is viewed separately, as it was 15 years ago. How much does this come from politics, not from the purpose that is written in your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U705	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U706	Tiit Tammsaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, The talk about the success of the merger may be true in certain places, but I do not think there is any success story, for example, that the municipality of Rapla and the city are often highlighted as successful. It was a so-called unequal marriage, a city and a parish merged and after that there are 5,000 people in the city and 4,000 outside the city. All the investments in the city took care of the main streets, the lighting was fixed, the pavement was fixed, the pedestrian routes were fixed, the upper secondary schools were fixed. And then they say there's nothing out of town because there's no money. It's that simple, there's not enough everywhere. And when two times a year, there's a plank outside the city on some road, and when a load of gravel gets thrown into a hole there, the weak-nervous moles start to cry. How is this bill supposed to prevent such an "single" peripheralisation, or is that even a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U708	Yeah, I don't think this bill's gonna hold back the tears of the weak. But if I am not mistaken, these investments in the city of Rapla are in many respects carried out by means of public investment injections. The money used for the investments you described was not largely the money of the rural municipality. It is interesting that, as long as the municipalities are separate, the local government leaders view the interests very differently. It is believed that if somewhere along the border of the parish, what is happening on the other side of the border is no longer useful to our people. In fact, the normal situation is that the parents of the surrounding municipality, including often the municipal elders, send their children to the city school, the people of the municipality use the sports hall in that city, use the stadium and the singing stage in that city, etc. And then they say, look at how the city has invested, why we don't have anything, even though they're taking advantage of what the environment in that city offers. The other way around, you see, the city's got so much debt. They'll be happy to send their kid to that fixed school, and then they'll tell us we're managing it awfully well, we don't have any debt. I can see the people who are charming here, probably everyone in their constituency can give examples of this kind. You can't look so tight! People have been reforming their daily activities long ago, people are moving from place to place. If there is a good concert in the town of Rapla, it is also a great thing for the residents of the former Rapla rural municipality, even the residents of Raikküla rural municipality will be happy about it. When something gets better in the field, everyone wins. Can't look so narrowly, they won this side of the river, but they didn't win that side of the river.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U709	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Quite a long time ago, about 15 years ago, Tarmo Nature, the Minister of the Interior, went to the Central Party to introduce his administrative reform. Hanged a map on the wall, and I found out some towns had a red circle around them. When he finished his report, I asked what the hell those red circles were. I've come to the conclusion that they're disloyalty, that their territorial boundaries aren't going to change. Please explain to me why these same cities, or Kohtla-Järve, Narva, Sillamäe and Tallinn, have a red circle again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U710	Yes, as I said, I did not introduce such a distinction into the proposed bill in 2009. But I was very strongly criticised for not having such a distinction, and it was pointed out that if small municipalities join some of the great cities, the situation of their inhabitants would deteriorate. Again, this provision is rather the result of a compromise. It was also possible at the time, and I think that without this list here, it is possible for the rest of the municipalities to join one another and not want to join the larger ones. In some ways, I understand the inhabitants of these small municipalities. If, for example, we look at the reputation of the city of Narva, there are very many complaints about the lack of transparency under its leadership. The city of Narva is more or less equal to Kihelkonna municipality's position in the local government performance ranking. There have also been many unreasonable decisions made in this municipality, which is why the two municipalities bordering on it do not have much desire to join this city.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U711	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U712	Thank you. As I have already said, there are many political compromises in the draft. I will then say straight away that, in drafting the draft, I really gave the Ministry officials the lead to write it as suitable as possible to a coalition partner. That as much as possible is based on the principle of decision-making on the ground, so that administration is really as liberal as possible, so that the moment of coercion is minimal, so that it is really the choice of a partner to join, with whom all of this is very much included in the draft. I have also openly stated that this model was not originally my favorite model. I would rather support a more robust and concrete amendment, but we sought a compromise. As far as the city of Narva is concerned, it is interesting that the city of Narva is not a very strong attraction for the inhabitants of surrounding municipalities. This list of attraction centres has been born in many respects as a result of political compromises, decisions by counties. We know very well the real situation. Estonia is in a very good position in this respect that we are the first country in the world to have a roaming survey of mobile phones on daily pendulum migration, the first country to map it using a very modern method. This survey was carried out on behalf of our ministry. We know how people really move every day. Secondly, we still have relatively recent census data to compare and confirm these data. During the census, people were asked that if you do not work in your home government, where do you work? Who is interested can be consulted, these data should be available on the website of Statistics Estonia. You can compare local governments, take at least one resident's accuracy, how many people worked in a neighbouring municipality, county centre, Tallinn or elsewhere at that time. These data can be compared, and they coincide very well. It is interesting that according to both data, the people of Narva do work in Narva, but there is no large area of activity around Narva, such as the number of residents in Pärnu or even Kuressaare, which is much smaller than Narva. Narva lives her life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U713	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U714	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Your report was very meaningful and the answers are equally meaningful and sometimes smiling. You said that municipal officials and some municipalities have taken on a hundred things that are not really their duties. All you have to do is agree. For example, in the city of Tallinn and in the municipality of Viimsi, local government officials really do not know what they are doing. But you did a little too much for small municipalities. As a rural municipality resident with one 500 inhabitants, I say that our municipality government is fully built and officials can perform their tasks perfectly. However, in Viimsi and Harku rural areas, for example, children in the city of Tallinn cannot be provided with kindergarten places. The city of Tallinn cannot even maintain its own roads, even though it is a very large municipality. How could administrative reform address this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U715	Thank you. I agree with that and I apologise to all local government officials who feel personally affected. You can never generalize. I forgot to include this clause that people are always different and our municipalities are different. In my work, I have seen very good, very professional officials from very small municipalities who really do their job with their soul and well. I have also met officials in large municipalities who are not so professional and do not do their job so well. However, if you read the reports of the National Audit Office, which are stable in coming to the National Budget Control Committee, or if you read the reports of the Chancellor of Justice, they constantly state that smaller municipalities are not able to solve more specific problems. As this was about Tallinn, it is often blamed that decisions about local governments are made according to the so-called Tallinn. I do not think that is generally true either in our country or in this Chamber. But it's clear that we see some local governments do television, spend money on propaganda, do banks, shops, and I don't know what else. I'm always waiting for the city of Tallinn to build its own spacetrack to launch missiles into space. These are voluntary tasks that the municipality can assume if it considers it necessary to organise local life better in this way. I guess this isn't the best way. This shows, however, that some municipalities have too much money as a result of certain situations and economies of scale. It cannot be generalised that local governments have little money. Some people have too many, they don't know where to put it, and they do stupid things. But the truth is that municipalities set their own priorities. In order to protect those municipalities where they have not managed to create enough kindergarten places, it must be said that, in general, those municipalities that do not have a shortage of kindergarten places have received various grants from the state to clean up their kindergartens, create new places, renovate kindergartens. In small places where children are becoming fewer and fewer, kindergartens are often perfect. These municipalities, which you mentioned and where there are problems with kindergarten places, have not received any aid from the state, have not received any support for the creation of these places either from the regional support programme or from any other support programme. In this sense, the image has not developed in a very objective way. If one municipality has received a very high level of state support for the creation of kindergarten places compared to its budget, and the other has not been given it, then it cannot clearly be said that the one who did not receive it has been more reckless. Several municipalities of Harjumaa have taken loans to create new kindergarten and school places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U716	When I became a minister, I looked into this possibility, but I have to admit that dear coalition partners said they wouldn't support it. However, as far as cooperation is concerned, I will say so much that the best form of cooperation is when leadership is united. If we work together, for example, in education or waste management, it is also wise to do one management, or one self-government. When you come back to the previous question, there really is a reasonable limit somewhere. We should agree if it's 5,000. If the Nordics are talking about 20000, let's say at least 5,000. For many people, it seems very reasonable to have 3000 inhabitants in the municipality, but 2/3 of the municipalities in Estonia are currently below this limit. If we were to say that there could be 2 000 inhabitants in the municipalities, it seems that there is not much demand, then that means that half of our municipalities should join someone, because they have fewer than 2 000 inhabitants. It's a very drastic situation, but people don't know the difference so drastically. As far as the European Charter for Local Government is concerned, it is indeed a Council of Europe document. Experts from the local authorities of the Council of Europe say that according to the Charter, local authorities must be able to organise local life. Very small municipalities do not comply with the principles of this Charter because they do not organise local life, they do not make local decisions. If these people choose a council on the ground, then local democracy still does not work, because nothing depends on this council. When a person has a problem, he answers that there is no money, that there are no opportunities and that the council cannot solve it. This has been pointed out by experts from the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U717	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U718	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Following your last point, you are of the opinion that this is not about the size of the municipality, but about its capacity, and, as some colleagues have said in Saalisk, the small municipality can also succeed in its tasks. But that's not what I wanted to ask. As you know, you produce a lot of examples across Estonia of how one or the other municipality has organised its work, well or badly, and I get the impression that this is our own homemade draft by your group. But the question is whether this draft has taken some account of the experiences and successes of other countries, close neighbours, or of the failure that has been avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U719	Thank you. After all, the IRL Group has openly acknowledged that this draft has not been homemade in our group. If you read the explanatory memorandum to this bill, here are also the names of the draft preparers, who are officials of the Ministry of the Interior and I think are very good experts. Of course, the experience of other countries has been taken into account here. I think we have a very good knowledge, was in the Ministry of the Interior and continues to have in my head a very good knowledge of what has happened in Lithuania, what has been the results of the reform that has taken place in Latvia, which is taking place in Finland, which has taken place in Denmark, etc. We have a very good view of it. I recommend that we have a conversation with the representatives of these countries. Do they regret it? Ask your colleagues if they regret that this reform has been carried out in these countries. Look what they're saying. No, they won't. They believe that these steps have been in the right direction. We must regret that we are also far behind Latvia and Lithuania in this case. This is one place where we have clearly once again lost our competitiveness in these countries. We have to be honest about this. As far as the capacity of local authorities is concerned, it is indeed, broadly speaking, made up of three important factors or is most affected by three important factors. The local government's geographical location, of course, is easier for it to be able to be able to if it is located close to an international airport, an international port, there are many good conditions for job creation, compared to some places in South-East Estonia, for example. This certainly has a very strong impact on the capacity of local authorities. Secondly, the capacity of municipalities is influenced by the number of inhabitants. All studies, if you look at the local authorities' capacity tables, which, during my appointment as minister, began to be drawn up and have been drawn up for many years in a row, changes there, then clearly affect the table on the size of the local government. Thirdly, the decisions of the local authorities will certainly also be affected. When stupid decisions are made, they are less capable, and when smarter decisions are made, they are more capable. But you can't jump over your shadow. That's also clear. As I have pointed out here, there is no education with a hundred inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U720	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U721	Thank you, good waitress. Without contesting the obvious need for administrative reform, this draft still deals very much with borders and centres of attraction. I will be haunted by the question that if local governments of different sizes have different interests, as has been said, how these interests will converge. For example, let us compare Järvakandi and Tartu, which are included in the list of attraction centers. How do their different interests now converge in this context? I realize that if one place or another is called a attraction center, it's like his role is growing. But how this increases the capacity of Järvakandi or Kallaste, for example, I do not understand that very well. Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U722	Thank you. As I have just pointed out in the previous reply, a higher number of inhabitants provide greater opportunities for the capacity of the municipality to grow. This is one of the most important assumptions. In the town of Kallaste, if I'm not mistaken, there are less than 1,000 inhabitants, yes, nearly a thousand inhabitants. As I said, it would not be possible to hire enough specialists for such a small number of people to work in a narrower area, to get into it, to be motivated, to have a higher salary. The number of officials is limited there. If the municipality is already in a larger unit, in a larger territory, has more residents and more financial opportunities, the situation will change. Of course, municipalities never become quite equal; the difference between the size of Tallinn and Tartu is about 4.5 times. So there's no real equality. I assume that no one will join Järvakandi during the reform, and according to the mechanism of this bill, Järvakandi must then join and remain a separate municipality. However, even if this were to happen, the differences would in any case be smaller than now, where the size varies 4133 times and the budget size is 5265 times. I think most members of the Riigikogu agree that this is too big a difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U723	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U724	Thank you. I'll start at the end. You, Mr. Stalnukhin, are certainly a greater inciter of international hatred. But for the Minister of Regional Affairs, there has yet to be lost such a specification for you. One positive news for you, however, is that I am no longer the Minister of Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U725	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U726	Thank you. First of all, this bill provides for a mandatory public survey in all the merging municipalities. I didn't do any debriefing. The Ministry of the Interior ordered three interviews from a research company. The results, as I described, were quite similar. Of course, you can always say that I do not believe in these results. I can also say that the research firm claims that this is the support of the Social Democratic Party, but I do not believe it, in fact the support is much smaller. Rather, I tend to believe in these ratings. But if you don't believe at all, you can order your own research and see if you can get different results. I predict I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U727	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U728	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have to say, everyone was pretty good examples, I'm not challenging any of them. But we'd still go back to the bill. For the first time, it was examined in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 10 February. Then you went as Regional Minister to present it, and I expressed my opinion on the draft, which has not changed so far. In the Commission, you have, in essence, also confirmed my opinion that there is not much more in the draft than there is 5 000, the deadline for voluntary accession and, if there is no accession, the forced merger, and the third concern concerns workers and officials to whom all jobs are retained. However, you have stressed several times that current employees are unprofessional. So where do these professional workers come from when everyone keeps the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U729	There are still more points in the bill. But this professionalism, as I said in my presentation, is due to a person's commitment to one area. At present, officials in our mini-parks are dealing with a hundred things and often lack professional skills in some narrow areas. When a person comes with a specific concern, they are not qualified to help. Fortunately, as I have already pointed out here, small municipalities often turn to the specialists of larger municipalities and ask for advice on how to solve matters. As Regional Minister, I also very often saw ministerial officials helping small municipalities officials, for example, to carry out civil status procedures. The official may have done one act a year, which is why he did not become competent in this area. It's the same thing as a surgeon: to be a good surgeon, you have to operate more often than once a year. The problem is exactly the same. However, the necessary mechanism has been set out in the draft. If an employee or official's current post is lost as a result of a merger between municipalities and cities, he or she shall be offered a service corresponding to his or her qualifications in the structure of the local government. He can devote himself to a narrower field and become a professional in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U730	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U731	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! You are far from the first regional minister of the IRL, and this is certainly not the first draft that our home party has proposed in this area. There have been relatively different versions and perceptions, but our coalition partner still disagreed on the draft administrative reform. There is, however, one minister's plan, which they claim to be supported by the plan developed by Vallo Reimaa. Märt Moll also said that this is what municipalities would support. Can you tell me why you think they'd support it and what was different?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U732	Thank you. One big plus of Vallo Reimaa's proposals was probably for the Reform Party that they were, unfortunately, a bundle of conflicting ideas. They never turned into concrete proposals, and that is why a specific scheme based on them does not exist. That's probably what this charm was for the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U733	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U734	Thank you. In the preamble to the draft law, it has been argued that, if this law was adopted, high-quality and accessible services would be provided to residents throughout the country by the efficient use of resources as close to their place of residence as possible. It is incomprehensible how services are moving closer to those places that are not currently included in the so-called attraction centres. I've counted, you have 63 attraction centers here, which is probably the municipality, which is very different in size. At the same time, you say that local governments of different sizes and different interests are the main obstacle to the introduction of regional policy. How do the different interests of these local governments suddenly become similar to making attraction centers, and this different size no longer interferes? I'd say you could call the bill, if you don't know where you're going, you don't know if you've arrived.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U735	There were several questions. First of all, how decisions are made and services are provided as close to the place of residence as possible. I have previously described this mechanism that if we have strong local governments capable of organising local life and making decisions, the decision will remain within this local government. Today, we are unfortunately seeing this trend that the central government authorities, indicating that local governments cannot carry out their tasks, are gradually taking them over to the central government. In the example of Raikküla, the residents of Raikküla have the opportunity to choose whether something important will be decided in Rapla or whether something important will be decided in Tallinn. It is clear that Raikküla, unfortunately, does not make very large substantive decisions; local life cannot be arranged in such a way that people's lives are seriously affected. My parents send their children to school in Rapla, and so on, as I described here. This is actually our choice and, as a result of this reform, decisions would indeed be taken closer to the population. The second question concerned uneven size. As I said, the reform mechanism is flexible in the sense that its use could result, for example, in the emergence of a single municipality over two or three counties, if the local authorities so decide. This mechanism has indeed been built on a very large number of volunteers. Of course, such a volunteer has its own pros, which the Reform Party certainly appreciates very much, but the one minus is that it does not allow for planning so clearly in advance. But I pointed out in my report that the difference between Estonia's largest and smallest size is currently 4133 times. And even if there really were to be a separate municipality in each of the proposed centres of attraction, the difference would still be drastically reduced. That would be a big step for the better, anyway, compared to today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U736	Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U737	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! In the preamble to the draft law, you have written that greater capacity of local authorities is ensured, in particular, by their sufficient size and overlap with the area of everyday life of their inhabitants. And then, according to § 6 (2), the city of Kohtla-Järve, the city of Narva, the city of Sillamäe and Tallinn will be preserved as an administrative unit within the applicable limits. My question is about the town of Kohtla-Järve, which consists of seven districts. The district of Viivikonna and Sirgala is located outside the city of Sillamäe in the municipality of Vaivara, the district of Oru is on the border with Jõhvi and Toila rural municipalities. What's the point of keeping such an illogical administrative unit?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U738	Thank you. Dear waitress, I don't really focus on the substance of the bill, because I don't see the result. Each draft has a result when there is political will and political agreement. The current reality of Estonia is that the Reform Party does not want to carry out the reform. They have said so publicly, and they must be commended for that, because that is their position and their point. They've also been good at setting up their network. As far as I know, even in Põlva County they have seven support points, seven municipalities, and that satisfies them. Do you believe that it will be possible to form a coalition in Estonia next spring without the Reform Party so that some reforms can be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U739	In the meantime, the President and the Prime Minister seconded by them to the government have changed in the Honourable Reform Party. If the previous prime minister had sometimes played himself into a corner, he was very involved in his many years of statements and statements, then frankly, I hoped that the new prime minister would be able to turn a new page, to say that now we are moving forward. I am very sorry that the new Prime Minister and the new government have not taken advantage of this opportunity. It would have been a good opportunity politically. In less than a year, the Riigikogu elections will be again. I believe that there is also an IRL in the new government union, and IRL will certainly make one election promise to implement this reform. I believe that all coalitions are possible and it is also possible to form a coalition that will make this reform possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U740	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U741	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I find it extremely sympathetic to your unwavering and brave spirit of fighter with which you have lured and defended the reform agenda. Unfortunately, you have a lot of energy and, of course, it has taken you a long time, and the people's money has been spent on this. It is understandable to me why you have chosen such a simple option, which is probably an emotionally and manually interesting thing to do on the map. But you have said publicly that this reform has extremely strong support, up to 70%, and that is precisely in scattered areas. How many of the 63 attraction centers you've planned have you done a poll to find out what people think and what percentages have been there? According to you, this is a very good reform, which will result in the release of incompetent officials from local authorities, and very financially able entities will be created as a result of the merging of small and poor rural municipalities. That's supposed to be good for the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U742	Thank you. Indeed, it is. First of all, about spending people's money. Worse spending public money is, in any case, not doing this reform. When you read the National Audit Office's reports, you look at the results of the studies and analyses carried out over the years, to which there is a great deal of reference in the explanatory memorandum of the draft, the current organisation spends and wastes money, it will, in any case, inefficiently use more than this reform may cost in any form. Anyway! The use of public money will certainly become more sensible as a result of this reform. As I said, it has indeed been analysed a great deal, a questioner mentioned it here. In this context, I was indeed surprised that the new government association decided to start over with the analysis. It's like the analysis should be done. You referred to drawing on the map. In today's world, many things are described on the map, more and more. Today, people use the map much more than the Soviet era, when accurate maps were classified. You shouldn't be ashamed of using the card, it's very reasonable today. Look around you! Do not denigrate the use of the card; it is in any case useful for structural thinking. I strongly recommend that you use as many cards as possible in your work and activities. But you probably can't talk about drawing on this bill. There's a lot of complaining about drawing borders, but if there's really anything we can complain about here, it's about erasing borders. The borders disappear between municipalities, not drawing new ones. The third topic concerned the polls. Yes, the Ministry of the Interior has ordered three public opinion polls, which according to the research company has been very representative: about a thousand samples, different social groups and the type of interviewees in the population unit are listed. All three times the result has been more or less the same. Indeed, the examples confirm what you said that smaller settlement units have fewer indecisives or those who say they do not know. There people have made their position clearer, they probably feel that they are more concerned with this issue. In larger cities, people more often say they don't know, don't care, don't know. There is also a clear difference: people who speak Russian tend to respond more than they can say. True, they live mostly in larger cities and are not so interested in this problem. But the common feature is that in each population group, whether they are villages, towns, smaller towns or larger cities, there are about twice as many supporters as there are opponents. I understand the employees of small local authorities, who run, for example, a local library or some other institution, and who are concerned. Of course, for every reform, people ask what happens to them. However, the bill also provides an answer to the question of keeping people in employment or offering them other suitable jobs. And indeed, when you talk to ordinary people, I believe that, in your experience, more and more people are saying that you should do this reform once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U743	Honourable questioners, your question must fit in one minute! Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U744	Thank you. Good waitress! Your performance is extremely interesting, substantive and thorough. Reading this document and having listened to you for a very long time, I am becoming more and more concerned with the fact that the great is good and only right, viable and everything else. In a certain context, this is certainly very right and certainly very necessary in a certain context. But at the same time, I recall your party partner, Tõnis Palts, who could, like, put a stop to this reform or draft. He found that the largest attraction center should be one and only Tallinn and the other side would inevitably be peripheral Estonia. You yourself gave the example of Denmark. Have you thought about how it would be possible to take over the experience of Denmark and prevent us from moving only towards larger and larger ones, and we are finally like vacuum cleaners that pull all the little ones into us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U745	Thank you. I understand that concern, but I think it's too early to worry about it. We are not in a situation where we have such small municipalities: 104 inhabitants, 145 inhabitants, 355 inhabitants, 378 inhabitants, 417 inhabitants, 481 inhabitants, 485 inhabitants, etc. This row can be continued. We have other problems. A Finnish human geographer once told me that if Estonia wants to compete at world level, you can contribute to one centre if you want to compete at European level, you can contribute to two centres, and if you want to compete at Estonian level, you can contribute to 15 centres. I'm sure it's kind of an extreme position, but there's some harsh truth here. I asked the Finnish Minister why they seriously talk about Helsinki joining the surrounding municipalities, isn't Helsinki already very large compared to other municipalities? He said that there was, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, he had to be able to compete at European level. That's why I don't support the idea of our capital being very small. I'm sure we have to have such a lucky engine. We shouldn't stop the front people, but we have to help the backwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U746	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U747	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I still have to make a little remark. In the meantime, this ideology even went to the need to change the government. However, I assume that this bill has not even been drafted for this purpose in order to force the Reform Party to force the opposition. We're still based on rationality. Our party's views are reflected in the spirit of the European Charter for Local Government and we respect free will. However, I would like to ask about the fact that, as we know, the weakest link in the local government system is the local government associations that have the status of a non-profit association. They cannot be assigned tasks, they are not partners and they are not mandatory for municipalities themselves. During your ministry, did you not consider the possibility of legitimising them as a joint body and thus creating a spirit of cooperation and synergy? This would have greatly facilitated accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U748	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kiisler, Don't take it personally, but if this bill is as good as you say it is, then you have therefore been a very weak minister. Having been in the coalition for six years, you could not start this reform. If this bill is as bad as most of the hall thinks, then the more you've been a poor minister. To quote you, the use of public money must become more reasonable. In my opinion, this is one of the most sensible decisions of the new coalition that the regional minister's seat has been lost, and that is really just saving money. But I have a completely different question for you. Given what you have said here today about Narva and Ida-Virumaa, do you realize that you are one of the biggest instigators of international hatred in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U749	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I come to my region again and I base your words on finding compromises. I find it a little difficult to assess whether the compromise was in words and in the formalisation of those words, or whether a compromise was found on this strategy. Why do I stress that? Because as far as I have heard this debate, there is already a programmed conflict here. According to the words he's like a tensile centre, he's not really a tensile center, but he needs to act like a tensile center. On the other hand, he needs to be held back somehow because he's red-lined.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U750	Thank you. The compromise is that, according to the draft, there is a great deal of volunteering during this reform. The local authority decides very much for itself how it joins and who it joins. It certainly has its perks, but it also has its own cons. Personally, I would like a more radical and concrete reform that would better address the problems that Laine Randjärv was referring to, i.e. that, as a result of this reform too, there are quite large differences. I'm sure they're a lot smaller than they are now, but it's definitely going to get better, but the differences are going to stay. Denmark, Lithuania and other countries have also indicated that not everything can be made quite uniform. But the compromise is that there is a great deal of volunteering.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U751	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U752	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This high level of support for the reform that your polls have shown will, in my opinion, go into the area of folklore, à la, that frogs will not be asked if the swamps are dried up. That is why I am asking you once again how many of the 63 areas of the proposed attraction centre you have carried out a public survey and how much support was given to the reform of the specific area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U753	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U754	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U755	Good waitress! You said before that you would have wanted a much more radical reform. What would it have been like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U756	In itself, this is still possible with the mechanism of the current draft law. I think that a good option for which Estonia would be competitive would be one where in most of our small counties there would be one municipality and in larger counties such as Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa there would be more municipalities. It would strike a balance. At the moment, the situation has become very unbalanced. In Harju County, the so-called small municipality of Viimsi with its 18,000 inhabitants, which has passed Rakvere and immediately, will pass Viljandi in the coming years. We have no idea how out of balance this picture is going. And when we look at Valgamaa, which has fallen to the last in many statistics, there are 1,000 inhabitants and below. They simply cannot compete with Harku, Rae, Jõelähtme and Kuusalu, it is not possible and they lose constantly in competition. I admit that the weakness is precisely the question of identity, which was mentioned at the beginning. For example, in Valgamaa, the borders of the former counties are still strongly embedded and it is felt that some feel like Mulgimaa and some feel maybe former Tartumaa, etc. If it is a good solution for them that there are, for example, three municipalities in a county that is not large, and that is a general agreement, then I think that this is certainly a very big step forward compared to the present one. But from the point of view of general competitiveness, our municipalities should at least be as large as our small counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U757	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U758	Thank you. Good colleague! I'm still coming back to Ida-Virumaa and Kohtla-Järve, which we're talking about. Some rural municipalities that do not have a cultural centre, a day-care centre, a school, an art school, etc. but have a border with Kohtla-Järve City are very comfortable to live in. But my question is that the Constitution allows administrative reform to be carried out from the top. I remember last year we were trying to make a new rural municipality or town border talk about City of Paldiski. By the way, in 1990, the government asked for nothing when Jõhvi, Kohtla-Nõmme, Kiviõli and Püssi went from Kohtla-Järve and became local government. I have the question for you, how do you assess or comment on the role of the state in carrying out administrative reform in these 20 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U759	First of all, it is still possible for municipalities to agree, make proposals and, for example, transfer some of these districts to the parish. Such an agreement has not been reached. On the contrary, we have discussed in Kohtla-Järve to transfer part of the territory of the municipality to the city. It's not out of the question. The reason for this provision, however, is that when I proposed the previous draft, one of the main cornerstones of the criticism was that the security policy situation in Ida-Virus was deteriorating. Such a provision has been introduced here in order to remove this criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U760	The rapporteur from the Commission. There has been quite a lot of work on this bill, as has been said several times here, but we will most likely not be able to finish it this time. How much more money should we put on it so we can get out of here, and how much must we throw into the trash from the work we've done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U761	Thank you. No, we did not see the need for any special procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U762	Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Did the Committee on Rural Affairs not discuss the possibility of granting a shorter deadline for amendments to the draft in order to move forward more quickly with the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U763	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U764	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U765	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, it should be embarrassing in this hall and there's nothing to laugh about. There is no doubt, and it has been repeated by several high-ranking supervisors of the Estonian state that we have a constitutional problem. One third of Estonian residents cannot meet their basic needs, as provided for in the Constitution and the law, because the state has not managed to organise local services in such a way that they are equally accessible to everyone. But in this Chamber, it seems that we do not have a constitutional problem, but party toiletry. We have an economic problem. We complain about job losses and complain about our economies stagnating. We complain that people are looking for a place to live and work outside Estonia. However, solving a large part of these problems is precisely the result of this same lack of administration. We do not feel that this is an economic problem, we feel that listening to these eloquences and a bit of sarcastic remarks about people who have worked for it, that it is the mutual positioning against the background of omissions that gives us some solutions. I am asking myself, in this Chamber, for the 20th or 30th time, whether those people who speak are actually looking for a solution or are acting on their own behalf, on behalf of the party, on behalf of their constituents. There have been people looking for a solution, but far less than it would be necessary to gradually resolve this problem. It is not the first Riigikogu to deal with this problem. At least the third Parliament has tried to find a solution, and it is probably the responsibility of all political parties that have failed to create a synergistic atmosphere to solve this problem. And so it is that some subconscious guilt forces representatives of different parties to hide their omissions behind rhetorical speeches. They sound nice! Neeme Big's speech was especially beautiful, and he was right on top of his head. What a beautiful rhetorical passage in the beginning and then a desire to just sink everything that has been done, because it has been decided that way. Friends, this is neither responsible nor fair. To put it quite simply and frankly, this is a national level of malicious negligence. We all know that the reform of the local government system is not about changing the administrative-territorial division. We know even better that the issues involved, in particular the constitutional financing of local authorities, are far more complex than the administrative-territorial issues. And that is why it is not serious if they are artificially tied together and said that they cannot be resolved separately at all. Yes, it is! Reasonably, with good will, it is possible. If there's no good will or reason, you can't solve the issues at all. Much is said about whether size is the most important thing, whether it depends on size. In the same way, you can ask any person who comes across the street whether local government or any organization has any connection with his or her ability, his or her ability. Of course it is. It's elementary. If you want to overlook the problem, if you do not want to solve real problems, you can always ask rhetorical questions about why 2000, why 3000, why 5000, why 20000. We've been too soft! If we looked back 20 years, we'd rather talk about 20,000 than 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000. The principle above the smaller counties is one of the most important prerequisites for territorial sustainability in Estonia in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U766	Good waitress, would you like some extra time? One, two or three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U767	Enough with one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U768	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U769	Thank you. The role of the state has become weak. The interesting thing about this whole thing is that all political parties in Parliament have supported, at least during the last two Riigikogu memberships, the proposal to pay extra money from the state budget in order for the municipalities to join. In other words, all political parties in Parliament feel that accession is necessary. If they didn't think so, it would be a very stupid decision to pay for such a thing. And this support has been increased several times, it has been growing all the time. I would point out, in comparison, that in Saxony, for example, the Federal State of Germany has twice as much per capita support as we do, but the minimum rate is lower than we do. We are already completely comparable in size to the rich countries that pay accession grants. Parliament is very kind, very happy to increase this support for accession. The same way they want to be joined, but the local leaders and other local leaders say that the role of the state, the guiding hand of the state is necessary, otherwise this thing will not move forward. That's what the local government leaders admit. This draft law proposes how the central government would take a leading role in this process. As far as the example of Kohtla-Järve and surrounding municipalities is concerned, one major problem is that, of course, residents of small rural municipalities want to consume the services provided in the city. They want to put children in a community school, as I pointed out earlier, to consume various kinds of infrastructure, but often they don't have the money to pay the city for it. A rather typical situation that has been repeatedly described to me is, for example, this. The resident of the municipality wishes to put his child into the music school in the city, but the city says that since you are not a citizen of our city, you either have to pay for it further or the municipality will pay for it. Vald says there's no money to pay for it. A man is trapped in there sometimes. Often people in small municipalities are advised to register as residents of the city, so children can be allowed to attend a music school. There are many examples of this type around us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U770	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. The rapporteur from the Commission. The current Government Union Treaty states that you will jointly map and consider options for how to implement municipal or administrative reform and discuss the functions of the municipality. Since you have planned to lose the office of Regional Minister, who will be the minister in the future who will be involved in all this analysis and subsequent drafting? How could one administrative reform be seen to be supported by both the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U771	Thank you. This work is currently being carried out by the Minister of the Interior and Regional Affairs. If his name should also change, I hope that the same minister can continue this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U772	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U773	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I, too, have listened to the debate both inside and outside this Chamber. Now I'm finally going to ask you a simple question to understand. So is it or is it not going to be a merger of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U774	Thank you. Under this law, not now, certainly not and certainly not at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U775	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U776	Thank you. Good waitress! As you pointed out, there is indeed such an agreement in the Government Union agreement to develop a municipal reform agenda by 2015. Will this reform be carried out in such a way that the borders of any municipality do not change?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U777	Let us wait for the plan, see what our cooperation partners think of all of this, and then see if it also contains elements of the administrative-territorial reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U778	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U779	Thank you for a good overview of the Commission's debate. I understand that Mr Kisler, in addition to the members of the committee, presented the draft, Mr Truth Forest and the officials representing the local government associations, were present. This issue, however, concerns Estonian society as a whole. Speaking of the right to have a dialogue instead of a monologue, did the Committee on Rural Affairs not consider it reasonable to invite the Chancellor of Justice, representatives of the Auditor General and employers' organisations, representatives of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, representatives of very many interest groups and influential organisations, who have expressed their views on this issue, which they have also voiced in Estonian society? Why do we ourselves reduce this issue only to the organisational problem of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U780	Thank you. It is true that we did not discuss this in the Commission. But I dare ask today why we should have coordinated the draft or had a discussion with, for example, the Estonian Oil Association, with whom the Minister has already coordinated the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U781	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U782	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U783	I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U784	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U785	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U786	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on reform of the local government organisation, which we are discussing today, deals with a topic that has been discussed in Estonia for a long time. The reform of the local government system, together with the reform of the state administration in general, is indispensable. Change is needed, society is ready for change, and any effort towards more efficient administration is worth considering carefully the results achieved. This is likely to result from the decision of the commission to leave the draft in Riigikogu proceedings. Certainly, the drafters have done a great deal of work and collected a large number of necessary data. The conclusions and solutions that have been reached, however, are not one that can be supported. Unfortunately, this is not a law on the reform of the municipal administration, although the title of the draft states so. We can read from the explanatory memorandum to the draft that it is only after the adoption of the draft that the initiators are planning to start analysing the general organisation of the local government. The draft cannot therefore itself be a draft law on the reform of the municipal administration. It is true that it is rather a draft law on the territorial integration of municipalities. After all, the draft explanatory memorandum has pointed out on several occasions that the functions and revenue base of the municipalities, the municipal services and the standards imposed on them, as well as possible financing models, will all be discussed after the adoption of the draft. It is also stated in the draft explanatory memorandum that the tasks of rural governments and ministries and their sub-offices will also be reviewed for the final implementation of the reform with a view to transferring tasks of a self-governing nature to local authorities where possible. Shouldn't the reform have started with these operations? It is unfortunate that the initiators of the bill have also succeeded in misleading the public. The same is often asked as my good colleague Peep Aru asked: will there be or will there not be an administrative reform? And by this, it means exactly the same as my colleague, Peep Argi, meant forced merger of local governments. Since the administrative reform is not merely a merger of municipalities, the drafters have succeeded in skilfully and over a long period of time. Let's put it together, and then let's look at it. It's been a strategy so far. Will there be an administrative reform? This question can only be answered in the way things are: administrative reform is inevitable. With regard to harmonisation of the level of services, guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens and cooperation between local authorities, the administrative reform certainly also includes a coercion. The forced merger of municipalities before discussing the actual content of the matter, as the draft proposal is, cannot be supported. There are very many places where I would like to express my opinion, but because of limited time, I will bring out three aspects of the draft. First of all, the fact that the draft ignores cooperation between municipalities. In any event, the regional cooperation of the municipalities is declared unsustainable. While the explanatory memorandum speaks in theory of possible sectoral cooperation, according to which in each area of cooperation a cooperation organisation would function in its own right, how would these various organisations with different boundaries and membership numbers gather, which principles would work, we cannot get a sense of that. How and with what structure there would be coordination between services, such as the interconnection between public transport and the school network, we did not know about that either. The fact that even if municipalities join the principle of centres of attraction, the need for strong and coordinated cooperation will in any case remain, does not take the draft into account. Rather, the draft refers to the possibility that the functions currently performed in cooperation between counties or through rural governments could be fragmented between municipalities. This essentially eliminates the county. Secondly, the draft states that standardisation of the services provided by the municipalities threatens the autonomy of the municipalities, but that their coercion does not. I recall that both the Chancellor of Justice and the OECD have drawn attention to the differences in the level of services in local governments, particularly as regards the guarantee of fundamental rights. How can a clearer description of a person's fundamental rights be considered to be an abuse of the autonomy of local governments, but not a coercion of local governments? In general local government theory, we have two paths to choose from: the municipality either as an extension of the state's arm or a municipality based on local, community organisation and the right to self-determination. If we were to continue in the direction proposed by the draft, we would soon arrive at the fact that there are four or fewer municipalities in Estonia. I'm sure it would be cost effective, but it wouldn't have anything to do with the local arrangements. Thirdly, according to the draft, the functions and funding of the municipalities would only be analysed after the merger of the municipalities. This approach does not make sense. The functions, funding, local democracy and independence of the local authorities from central power are the cornerstones on which the local government remains at all. How is it possible to determine the size of the municipality first and then its tasks and funding principles? It's more like the method that we cut first, then we read. The government coalition has begun to do the work that the draft authors considered to be irrelevant to the development of a model of administrative reform based on the functionality of local governments. What will happen next from this draft will be shown by time and procedure. Admittedly, a lot of work has been done and a lot of work is still to be done. As the draft currently stands, it certainly cannot be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U787	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's Chair of Speech by Heimar Lengi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U788	I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U789	As you wish. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U790	Thank you. You know, it's kind of weird in this room. We'll deal with the details. Details! I would like to make a few comments and look at it more broadly. The Reform Party has been torpedoing the implementation of the municipal reform since its beginning, 15 years ago, since Tarmo Loodus was the Minister of the Interior. Why? It is said on the village that the squirrels do not want to unite the parishes, because the small parishes become more votes. The power is here, when we put it together, you know, maybe our power won't stay. And in a small area, it's easier to share public money. Right? This is how the emergency brake was quickly pulled into the administrative reform after the creation of the Social Alliance. I quote: 'I'm sorry that I got cold feet in the garment, would have washed the reputation of an ancient brake from the home party,' said former Minister of the Interior, Kisler. And he's right. However, it seems to me that IRL politicians are still pampering the gentle hope that the law might pass and rejoin the squirrels after the elections. I mean, they filed this bill, knowing that maybe this isn't gonna work. But I don't know. Everything can change. Right now, I think this paper is going to stop in the drawer for the first time, but it's happened before. It stops because the government, not the Minister for Justice, the Minister for the Interior or the Minister for Finance, has not supported this draft. Jürgen Ligi said it was too expensive a reform, EUR 42 million. 350 million euros for the work capacity reform is not much, but there is much to spend on making the new Estonian structure. The squirrels use the old trick and allow themselves to come out with their own law. But it's not done in a hurry. According to Hanno Pevkur, the new Minister of the Interior, I almost quote him, one must first, imagine, set a goal and then draw up an action plan. And then there will be an election. First, the Ministry plans to listen carefully to "mapping the responsibilities of local governments." We do not know what the municipalities have to do. Let's start mapping and stretch to 1 March next year. Hanno Pevkur has also stated in his letter to the Committee on Rural Affairs that the concept of centres of attraction does not allow for the resolution of important problems between the central government of the country and local authorities. Maybe that's the way it is. I don't disagree. But why didn't the Reform Party tell its former coalition partner, IRL, sooner to stop, don't waste money on this reform, we'll stop and do it differently? No, no one did it, Mr. Kisler could do it any way he wanted. I myself was part of a large task force in the Ministry of the Interior that went together in the summer and winter, I don't know how many dozen people, and I don't know how much money was spent there. But it didn't matter to the squirrels: let them do it, we'll sink them! For five years, or even more, Kisler has been working on the reform and talking about these attraction centers, and no one has made a loud voice, not even the media has been much criticised. Neither the Cities Union nor the Association of Rural Governments, who now suddenly, when one party flew out of the power union, came with a gruesome criticism from the Committee on Rural Affairs: where we can reform like this, it is not fit for anything. Where were you before? You thought it was public money, let it run, let it go. And another interesting thing. The Reform Party now wants to start designing the attraction centres itself. Dear people, Võru will be Võru, Räpina will be Räpina and Haapsalu will be Haapsalu. You will not find any new attraction centers! There is a attraction centre in Estonia, this is Edgar Savisaare Tallinn! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There's nothing to laugh about! On the radio show of the day before yesterday, a large company in Harju County said, I quote from memory: 'Tallinn is an example for us, Tallinn goes two years ahead and then we start doing as in the capital. " The speaker was a Reform Partyman, interrogate the show, it was the day before yesterday. That's the way it is and the truth is, I'm sorry to see it. I'm not talking about the details of this reform, there are so many parish elders together, and they all know better than I do. But I don't understand how we can waste public funds like this. They're gonna be big friends, but next minute you can put a knife in your back, the IRL Reform Party and the Reform Party to the IRL. Dear gentlemen, this is not a beautiful form of government! Mr. Lillo laughs there, but there's no point in laughing. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, I asked the same thing, so there's no right answer, let's just get on with it. Otherwise, you'll read the taxpayer's money, how you read it, but now you don't need any savings, let's go, make a new bill, we'll start with a new 42 million. This is how Estonia is governed! Yes, on March 1, next year, the Reform Party hopes to go to the Riigikogu elections with the old self-government system and to gather a lot of votes in the squirrel-led municipalities. Of course, it's up to the voter himself. But the question remains: why did the Reform Party allow its coalition partner to waste public money, blow it away without any result? Today, the law will be put in this drawer, basically shot to the bottom, and we'll start making a new one. But I now ask here, as a vigilante, whether the money wasted should be the responsibility of former Prime Minister Andrus Ansip or Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I think this is a matter of thinking for both the media and the Estonian people. Who is responsible for the five-year reform, which has been made with public money, with quite large sums of money and which results in a round zero? Where's the money, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U791	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Riigikogu's speech chair of the Reform Party, Kalev Lillo! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U792	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If one of my previous speakers relied on rumours throughout my speech, I will not do so, but present you with the facts. The reform of Estonian self-government, or rather, the administrative-territorial reform, has been the subject of a political debate since 1997, more seriously since 2000, i.e. now more than 14 years. Most of the time, the reform plans have receded to drawing letters of land maps. Planning substantive changes that would make people's lives better has less of a will. Once again, a mere line of borders is hidden behind the name of the reform of the centres of attraction. Fortunately, there has been no forced merger of mass municipalities during this period, resulting in more cardinal plans for the remaining 20-25 municipalities, 63 municipalities under the Estonian draft of the attraction centres under discussion today. Why do I say lucky? Fortunately, if it is not clear what disease we are treating, what is the objective, whether to reduce the number of municipalities or to promote local democracy, whether the regions are being populated by mass or balanced development, which is becoming better for the urban and rural population, it is very difficult to implement this reform. There hasn't been a lot of disputed places in the past, but they've been substantive for that. Does the merger have to be forced or voluntary? The Reform Party supports a voluntary approach; the democratic functioning of the municipality is based on the right to self-determination. In favour of voluntary mergers, the fact that more than 50 municipalities have joined today and more than one quarter of the total number of municipalities is still preparing for the merger. A voluntary merger shall be supported by the State in accordance with the law on the facilitation of the merger of the local municipality. Can we say that the municipality is too small and that it should join the others if, for example, it has fewer than 5 000 inhabitants? It is believed that the number of inhabitants and the capacity of local authorities are correlated. However, this has not always been confirmed. Estonia's largest municipality is struggling to maintain its streets and provide day-care facilities. Hence, the problem is not about size, but about local authority and its political preferences. Are we moving the boundaries or are we really looking at it? This draft Estonia of the attraction centers wants to shift borders again and one day try to deal with substantive issues later. The Reform Party, together with a coalition partner from the Social Democratic Party, is of the opinion that it has started at the wrong end. First, we need to deal with the causes, and then we will get to the consequences. This is why the government has planned to develop a municipal reform plan by 2015 which would describe the local government tasks and their funding. I will use what President Toomas Hendrik Ilves said: 'Administrative reform cannot be reduced to mathematical aggregations or cost savings campaigns, the idea of administrative reform must be equally good for all people, whether they live in Kadjaste village in Vändra municipality or in the Pirita district of Tallinn. ' The previous Minister of Regional Affairs worked on the preparation of administrative reform for years without having reached the Riigikogu with this plan. The same draft has now been presented by the IRL Group. Siim Kiisler's former colleagues from various ministries do not support the Estonian draft of the drawing centres. Former subordinates also acknowledge that administrative-territorial reform is not necessarily necessary if it is not preceded by municipal reform. The local government associations complain that this has been a monology-like process and that no dialogue has arisen. They also consider that substantive issues such as the functions of municipalities, cooperation between municipalities and the revenue base have not been resolved. It was as if the model of attraction centres presented as wishful thinking by all municipalities could not be agreed on more than half of the counties. How's it going? Based on the opinion of the experts, this draft cannot be supported. It's just another drawing of a contour card, painting. It is also sad that the most meaningful reform programme of the last decade, prepared by Regional Minister Vallo Reimaa, rejected him from the IRL and also called the Minister. The coalition has a desire to tackle the subject in substance, to develop solutions based on the relationship between cause and effect, not the other way around. If we vote out of the draft procedure, he will be back on our table in the same form very soon, and we will have to spend a lot of valuable time repeating the discussions that have already taken place, instead of focusing on finding substantive solutions. That is why the Reform Party Group considers that the draft can remain in the process, the government is working hard and, in the beginning of the winter, a real action plan has been discussed before us with our cooperation partners on the basis of which we can decide how to move forward with our proposals. By then, it will be clear whether there is anything positive to take with you from the Estonian draft of the attraction centres at first reading today. We also believe that real self-government reform could be such an important thing that deserves the agreement and support of all parties represented in the Riigikogu, and that we can agree on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U793	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 647 amendments. a 27 June at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U794	First of all, let me thank you for raising the issue. Interest in this shows that the subject is very important. When I listened to this debate, I saw a good man who opened a kiosk with nails, bolts, screws and nuts on the shelf. People come to see and he doesn't understand why nobody buys anything. But on top of that booth, it's written in large letters as "PIRUS." Here were the last examples of Kohtla-Järve, by the way, the adoption of this law will not solve these problems. What makes you think that the aim of the administrative reform is to achieve a certain size of municipalities or the number of inhabitants? What does it matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U795	The size of the municipality depends on its capacity, specialists have better salaries and better investment opportunities in the larger municipality. On the other hand, the overlap of the municipality's territory gives people in the area where people live the opportunity to solve their problems in the municipality. At present, especially for rural residents, the problem is that the municipality of residence cannot solve their problems because they do not consume services in the territory of their home municipality, but in the daily area of operation. The territory of their home government has long been much smaller than the daily movement area. Therefore, there is no answer to how to organise a child's trainings, there is no answer to how to influence the decisions of the school in which the child is studying, because many do not learn a child in their home municipality school. Therefore, the state of the road leading to a job from home cannot be affected, as more than 70% of the rural population does not work in their own municipality. If you ask why the road has not been repaired, the mayor says that this is not the territory of our municipality, I cannot help. This is real life, and these are real problems. As for the name of the kiosk, you, Mr Nestor, are certainly not the usual buyer of screw-nuts or pies. I'm sure you'll be able to deepen. And if the content is right for you, but the title is an obstacle, then we, as initiators, are willing to change the title. As long as you support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U796	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U797	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To your previous point, 1+1 is not wealth or solving all problems. By number 1, I mean the merger of municipalities. You stressed on several occasions that you had a survey in a particular sample and almost 70% of those surveyed supported the reform of the local government organisation. Why is this voluntary accession not now actively launched among the local governments of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U798	Thank you. Because people who have to make a decision voluntarily often do not have an answer to the question of what happens to them. Even if they know that the lives of most of the parishes will ultimately be better. That's one reason. The second reason is also that we look at which coalitions are going to continue to see it from neighbouring countries, and consider whether our coalition of power will persist if we join the neighbouring government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U799	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U800	My second question is simpler. Can't you see that at county level there are things that should be decided, managed, managed, so that someone there can have responsibility for making decisions? Don't you have a plane like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U801	I think it makes sense if there's a local government in the county. This bill also allows this. For example, Hiiumaa has one municipality, Saaremaa has one municipality. The decisions are made at county level, but these decision-makers choose the local citizenry, choose the local residents. At the moment, the county makes decisions, but the decision-makers are chosen by the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U802	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U803	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! They say who likes the process, who gets the result. To be honest, I am frustrated that you are reporting this bill today in opposition. For six and a half years, I thought you really wanted to do the administrative reform. Now that you report this plan in opposition, I get the impression that you like this process and you don't want to see the administrative reform in Estonia. If you wanted to, you would have done it. It's just a stretch and a bad policy. So when do you think this reform could take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U804	Thank you. Well, according to your interpretation, it's gotten a lot better. One major obstacle has been removed, Kisler is no longer the Minister of Regional Affairs when you see it as a major problem, and now it can move on. But the truth is that the Minister of Regional Affairs, like any member of the government, can only submit drafts to the Riigikogu if the government supports them. It's the only way, unfortunately. No minister can do this without a positive decision by the government; unfortunately, there is no such opportunity. So this is the first opportunity and, as far as I know, the first time in the restored Republic of Estonia, where this kind of bill is discussed in this Chamber. As I pointed out in my presentation, the previous reform was carried out in 1938 to 1939, or 75 years ago. It's been a long time. When will the new reform take place? I think that this reform will take place with the next election of local authorities, as proposed in the draft. And if this Riigikogu does not decide on it, the next Riigikogu will decide on it after the elections in March.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U805	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U806	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'm still gonna go over it. You said that all current officials, however, would most likely have a job. But this number of officials is pretty high. Do you think it's real to keep this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U807	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U808	Thank you. I cannot tell you how much of this work is suitable for use, but I think that we will move forward with the reform of self-government if we can jointly define this thing that we want to improve, which is the content of this reform. As long as we're talking about boundaries, I don't see much of a future on this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U809	Thank you. Here we spoke earlier about the experience of other countries. In Finland, the decision was made to guarantee employees a job in the merged municipalities for the next five years after the merger. I asked them how they could handle it. They say it's okay, people always retire quietly and just don't have to get so many new ones. The other thing is that people inevitably change jobs, not everyone stays in the same position forever. We also have quite a few municipal officials who are quite close to retirement. It will, of course, smooth out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U810	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U811	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Listening to this debate, it seems that this issue will only be dealt with as if it were the limits of municipalities and the number of municipalities as such. For your part, would you give Parliament a comprehensive overview of which reforms concerning the quality of life of people in other areas of life have been blocked because there has been no self-government reform in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U812	This is certainly very topical in the whole social field. For example, helping people with disabilities, which is becoming a hot topic in this Chamber, too, through the proposal for a labour capacity reform. Just yesterday, I had a conversation with a person with a lack of mobility. He said that his home is in Lääne-Virumaa, but he is forced to work in Tallinn, one of the large municipalities that allows disabled transport. A small municipality does not allow this. This is an example of a selective exercise. The solution, which is often proposed, is that we, as I described earlier, take these tasks away from the municipalities and somehow start organizing the matter with the state, with the central government, we start making decisions in Tallinn. Another example is what is happening in education. In my report, I outlined the drastic figures of how much more money is spent on education in small municipalities. And yet parents are taking their children more and more out of there. Even if they live on in this place, they put their children in larger municipal schools. It is clear here that optimization is necessary. However, such examples can be found in any area. I spoke to the new leaders of one of the last local government elections, and somehow the library service came up. I asked them how many libraries they have. It was said that you see, the merger agreement was that all institutions would remain, and we now have six libraries in one small, still small area. I told you, please don't tell me how many visitors there are, I don't want to know just in case. Examples of an area in which optimum, rational organisation of activities, local life can be made possible in larger municipalities can be seen in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U813	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation by Kalev Lillo, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U814	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee first dealt with the draft law on the reform of the local government organisation initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union at its meeting on 19 May. a. In addition to Siim Valmar Kiisler, representative of the initiator of the draft, the Head of the Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Interior, Väino Truthmets, was invited to the meeting. Siim Valmar Kisler gave an overview of the bill, which we have been listening to here for the last two hours. After that, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior Väino Truth Forests received the floor, who pointed out that the Government of the Republic discussed this draft on 15 May. a and decided not to support the draft on the basis of the opinion of the three ministries. He also noted that according to the Coalition Agreement, the Government of the Republic aims to develop a municipal reform plan by 2015 which would clearly define at what level the tasks to be carried out and how the necessary funding for the performance of these tasks would be carried out. Before going to the questions and answers, it was agreed that before the draft was sent to the first reading, representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments would certainly meet. Most of the questions we had in the Commission have actually sounded in this Chamber today and received almost literally the same answers. In pointing out something that has not yet been said here today, one not so much related to this bill, but still the substantive question was about the greater accession that is taking place in Saaremaa. The question was that, if you use the opportunity to join in the inter-election period, it is possible to conduct interviews in the e-vote environment, but in this environment, it is not possible to take decisions, let's say, through an e-vote. This information was new and was allowed to be passed on to the Home Office. There were repeated questions as to why, before the question of borders and only then the substantive work, whether these borders were the most important. Finally, at this meeting, it was decided to consensually propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 10 June and that Kalev Lillo, a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, be appointed rapporteur. For the second time, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 June. Märt Moll, Adviser to the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, Tiit Kirss and Anne Läns were then involved in the discussion. Märt Moll noted that the draft was strictly aimed at merging municipalities by merging territories. Substantial issues such as the functions of the municipality, cooperation between municipalities and the income base have been left unresolved. There is a lack of clarity about the tasks to be undertaken and how local authorities will have to perform as a result of the reform. The Association of Estonian Rural Governments cannot accept that the greater capacity of local authorities is ensured primarily by an adequate size. The process of designating the extraction centres has been controversial and the results are questionable. It is unclear how the merger of local governments through the unification of territories will develop local democracy. The Estonian Association of Rural Governments does not support this draft. Anne Läns, the representative of the Estonian Association of Cities, added that the preparation of the draft has taken place for a long time, but unfortunately it has been a process like a monologue and no dialogue has arisen. The title of the draft does not correspond to the content. The title of the draft is 'Restructuring the organisation of own government', but the content is the reform of the administrative-territorial organisation. He noted that the Union of Estonian Cities likes the current coalition agenda. One of its objectives is to develop a municipal reform plan by 2015 which clearly defines which tasks will be carried out and how they will be financed. He confirmed that the Estonian Cities Association is in favour of administrative reform, is prepared to deal with it and cooperate in this regard, but cannot agree to the programme for the reform of the centres of attraction. In the round of questions and answers, we wanted to know on what basis the claim that the process of designating centres of attraction has been of dubious value. In response, it was said that a model of attraction centres was proposed, but the attraction centres were mentioned by the rural authorities and, to the knowledge of the rural municipalities' association, no agreement was reached in more than half of the counties that this was a vision presented by the rural elders, which did not match the vision of the municipalities. It was also asked that since there have been several reform programmes, which one has been the most sensible from the perspective of the municipalities. The Municipalities replied that they considered that the most sensible minister was Reimaa's plan. There was also the question of how much the opinion of local governments was taken into account in the drafting of the law. It was sad to hear the answer, according to which none of their fundamental views were taken into account. After the discussion, it was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed. It was given 5 votes, with 3 abstentions. It was decided to offer ten working days by the deadline for the 647 amendments to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U815	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U816	Thank you. You have at least one question. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U817	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I also asked the former Minister, Mr. Kiisler. You were in power together for five years, in a coalition. As a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, I have listened many times to discussions about this law at the time, but then you did not have that criticism anywhere. Now that the coalition has suddenly broken apart, you're criticizing and saying that this law is no good at all. Then why didn't you pull the brake earlier and let the whole department work night and day? There was a lot of money wasted on it, and now it's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U818	Thank you for your question. I would point out that this bill was not on the table during the previous coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U819	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U820	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My first question to the main rapporteur may have seemed spiteful, but I have a sincere interest in it. Has there been any talk in the Commission, and do you think that the next municipal elections will come after the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U821	Thank you. In fact, local government reform, administrative reform, administrative territorial reform and their differences could be discussed at length. When we are talking about this draft, which bears the name of the reform of the self-government system, it is essentially a reform of the administrative territorial division. There is no reason to do this reform only in order to change borders without addressing the underlying causes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U822	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U823	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. The former Minister for Regional Affairs has been working for seven years and has proposed all kinds of options, and the last meetings of the Committee on Rural Affairs have also been furnished with this issue. I'm going to ask the preconceived question, what happens next, when is the second reading? How quickly will the current government coalition resolve the same issue, the administrative reform issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U824	Thank you. As I have just read here, amendments can be tabled within ten working days. I also mentioned that the government coalition has set itself the goal of developing a municipal reform agenda by the end of 2015, and that is when we can move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U825	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U826	Who's responsible for all this? To be honest, I have been most concerned about the behaviour of our coalition partner in the government. We know that there are a huge number of outstanding issues, but in these unresolved issues, in particular, the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, would have expected even one constructive proposal. Just one! During these years, I did not hear a single one after I wanted to postpone the problem and discredit those who deal with it. Good friends! If we do not reform, the life of the reform will do itself, and the result will be much tougher if it were to go beyond this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U827	We will move on to the eighth item, the third reading of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on the draft. I'm sorry! Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U828	Thank you. This is an important draft, a constitutional draft which requires 51 votes for adoption. In order to ensure the necessary presence, bring together rows in the Riigikogu Hall, the IRL Group takes a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U829	Thank you. I'm declaring recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U830	Dear colleagues, the break taken by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica has ended. We are on the eighth item, this is draft 570. Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of presence before the final vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote a draft of 570. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu, 11 against, no abstentions. Draft Act 570 on the Amendment of the Law on the Courts instituted by the Government of the Republic and related other laws has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U831	We will move on to the ninth item on the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Land Tax Act exempting home owners, the Land Tax Act and the Law amending the Income Tax Act (558). Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? It's what you want. I will open negotiations and ask Tarmo Männi, representative of the Reform Party of the speaker's desk! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U832	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U833	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen! Good waitress, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U834	I've never told anyone. I was prompted by the need to clarify the reasons for this lengthy procedure. The handling of the draft, which seemed simple at first glance, proved somewhat difficult for certain objective reasons...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U835	Good waitress, I'm sorry again! Good fellows, I'm asking for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U836	In particular, we started with the unreformed state land, which is 7% left for the country, from the need to speed up the resolution of the problems in this regard. We have now reached a postponement of the deadline for the introduction of the land tax exemption system. So, what's this about? The Land Tax Information System is confirmed to be ready within the deadline of 1 January, but it will not work properly for one very important reason. The national registers relating to the information system are not accurate and do not reflect all the necessary data. There are seven national registers related to the Land Tax Information System. What struck me most was that even in the country casket, 15% of the entries do not contain the identity of the owner; only 80% of buildings, most of which have no fixed location, are included in the construction register. This line could be continued. That was why the Committee on Monetary Affairs took the position not to support the initiator's proposal to make the information system mandatory as from 1 January 2015 and postponed it for two years. It should be noted that 1 January 2015 was linked to the deadline for the tax relief of the land under home, which may have originally been the point of the draft. To be honest, I got a little off the record for being too thorough, but I'm not used to cheating. Here's the morality I wanted to tell the Riigikogu today. The tax credit for the land under the house was an electoral promise made before the elections, which has not yet been managed by the administration. The National Audit Office also drew attention to this. Municipalities are obliged to organise this information system, now in the extended deadline, and they must also be responsible for the accuracy of the data. However, it is certain that local authorities cannot be obliged to organise all national registers. National registers are a set of basic national performance data that should be compatible. The fact that national registers do not work as necessary has become clear during the procedure for this draft. I will now repeat myself, at second reading...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U837	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, did you hear what was just said in this Riigikogu speech chair? I didn't hear you. I'm asking for silence in the hall! There's a noise coming out of every line, taking pictures, talking. Quiet in the hall, please! [[???Vahelehüüe saalist: 'Pildistamine ei tee lärmi.'???]] Yes, it does. Lightning makes noise. Tarmo Mänd, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U838	Please be patient, I'm almost done. I'm not talking for eight minutes. We all experienced shortcomings in the functioning of the national registers when we filled out these famous declarations of interest. They weren't pre-filled. Here's the reason, they're not compatible and they're incomplete. I would like to put to the hearts of the administrators of the registries that all national registers must be organized and, if necessary, come to this issue before the legislator. There is nothing political about this story. All parties represented in the Chamber have at different times been responsible for the operation of the registers. This is an elementary requirement for the functioning of the state; e-state should also act as an e-state. Thank you for your attention. I didn't torture you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U839	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 558. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U840	Thank you. I thought Tarmo Männ had golden words. And in order to process them again before the final vote, I will take a ten-minute break on behalf of the IRL Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U841	Thank you. I'm glad you listened to this. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U842	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I shall put draft 558 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The draft Act amending the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Land Tax Act, the Land Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, as well as the Law amending the Land Tax Act, have been adopted as a law. The nine items on the agenda are addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U843	We will move on to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations on this item? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 637 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 68 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and one is impartial. Draft Act 637 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The 10th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U844	Let us move on to agenda item 11, which is the third reading of draft law 552 on maritime labour initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. I will put draft 552 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 71 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Law 552 on Maritime Labour, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been passed as a law. The 11th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U845	We will move on to the 12th item, which is the third reading of the draft Act on Supplementing Medicinal Products, § 20, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put a bill of 400 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 69 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 400 on Supplementing to § 20 of the Pharmaceutical Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, has been adopted as a law. The 12th item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U846	We will move on to the 13th item, which is the third reading of the Act amending the University Act, the Law on University of Applied Sciences and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 625 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act amending the University Act, the Law on University of Applied Sciences and the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The 13th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U847	We will move on to the 14th item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, the law amending other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 546 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 57 members of the Riigikogu, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Draft law 546 on the amendment of family law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The 14th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U848	We will move on to item 15, which is the second reading of draft law 655 amending the Law on trade in animals and animal products initiated by the Government of the Republic and on veterinary supervision of their imports and exports and related amendments to other laws. To present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Aivar Koka, Vice Chairman of the Rural Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U849	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft was completed in s. a on May 14th. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 28 May. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 2 and 3 June. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture also attended the meeting on 2 June. The Commission decided to include 11 amendments in the list of amendments, most of which relate to the harmonisation of terminology used in veterinary legislation and the alignment of these laws. a Act on Law Enforcement and General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, which enters into force on 1 July. All amendments were adopted by consensus. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 655th plenary session on 11 June and that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal is to send a draft of 655 to the third reading by 12 June and to hold a final vote. The decision was taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U850	Any questions? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 655. Eleven amendments have been received from the Governing Commission. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 15th item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U851	We will move on to the 16th item, which is the second reading of draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U852	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs has trusted me to reflect what happened in the Commission. Introducing Bill 669. The first reading of the draft Act amending the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act, and the Law on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 May 2014, was completed on 21 May. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for amendments at 11 a.m. on 2 June 2014. Amendments were tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Following the completion of the first reading of the draft, the Committee on Social Affairs met at two meetings on 3 and 9 June to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading. At its meeting on 3 June, when the draft text was discussed, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose one amendment. Riina Saar, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department and Kaili Hendla, Adviser to the Welfare Department, participated in the substantive discussion of the amendments at the meeting on 9 June. The amendments tabled were explained and the questions answered by Mr Tsahkna and Ms Tuus-Laul. Now to the amendments. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft. The change in the title of the draft act was due to the need to bring the title into line with the norm rule. The title of the draft in question reflects the amendment of three laws, the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Act on granting international protection to an alien. At the same time, the subject matter of the draft is the amendment of four laws. There is also an amendment to the State Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. If the draft law amending or repealing the law proposes to amend or repeal more than three laws, the title of the law to be amended shall state the title of the law whose amendment is due to the principal purpose of the draft law. The title of the bill must show that the law of amendment is proposed and that more than one law is being amended. Thus, during the second reading, the title was "Proposal to amend the National Family Benefits Act and other laws'. Amendment 2 was tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. According to the author of the amendment, the amendment is motivated by an increase in the risk of poverty as the number of children increases, and from the third child onwards it will increase considerably. In order to combat child poverty, it is particularly important to support families at the highest risk of poverty with universal support, i.e. families of many children with three or more children. It had also been said that the increase in child benefits for third and more children must not be limited to EUR 4.1, but must be at least as high as for the first and second children. The initiator of the draft act did not support this amendment. The initiator's representative pointed out that the child benefit for the third child and for each subsequent child is currently EUR 76,72. As of 1 January 2015, this contribution will increase to EUR 100 per month according to the draft. The amount of this allowance is therefore increased by EUR 23,28 per child per month and not by EUR 4,1. According to the amendment adopted in 2012, the child benefit for the third child and for each subsequent child is paid at a rate of 10 times the child benefit, i.e. EUR 95,90 per child per month. The date of entry into force of this amendment is 1 January 2015. The amount of child benefit shall be EUR 9,59. Since this bill has been adopted, but the version of the law is not valid, i.e. the law has not entered into force, it cannot be argued that child benefit for the third child and for each subsequent child is only increased by EUR 4.1 per month. Thus, the child benefit for the third and each subsequent child of the family will increase over time, which will increase by EUR 23.28 per child per month in the same order as the child benefit for the first and second child of the family, which will increase to EUR 45 per month, i.e. an increase of EUR 25.28. The third and fourth amendments have been tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. The amendment was clarified by the need to establish a correlation between child support and general economic development. The indexation of child benefit provides for an adjustment of the annual amount of child benefit in line with the increase in the consumer price index and the income from social tax. The index is calculated on the basis of an 80% change in the income of the previous year's social tax and a 20% change in the consumer price index of the previous year. According to the authors of the amendment, the aim of the amendment is to ensure that child benefit is adjusted to reflect annual inflation. As the amendments to the State Family Benefits Act will enter into force on 1 January 2015, the indexation of child benefit under the amendment will take effect from the beginning of 2016. The initiator of the draft act does not support the proposal of the Centre Party Group, as the above amendment is based on § 26 of the State Pension Insurance Act, which provides for the indexation of the state pension. The full implementation side has been neglected. According to the initiator of the draft act, it is not possible to implement the proposal in this form. According to the State Pension Insurance Act, the pension index is established by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic shall approve the index by 20 March of the current year at the latest and the index shall be used from 1 April. The amendment of the Centre Party Group does not provide for a power of attorney to confirm the index. The initiator of the draft act also said that the pension index could not be applied to the indexation of family benefits. The social tax is 33% divided into two parts: 13% health insurance and 20% pension insurance. Only 20% of the pension insurance component is used to find the pension index. However, in order to index family benefits, it is desirable to use the entire social tax. The representatives of the initiator of the draft act also said that no analysis of the impact of the indexation of grants has been carried out, nor did they take into account how IT solutions are being implemented. They said that the development of the National Pension Insurance Register had to be carried out. At present, it is not possible to index family allowances because there is no programme and the change is very large, labour-intensive and expensive. The members of the Social Affairs Committee agreed to the reasons given by the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and did not support the amendments tabled by the IRL Group and the Central Party Group. Result of the vote: 3 votes for, 5 against and no abstentions. Now the procedural decisions of the lead committee. At its meeting on 3 June, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft at second reading on the agenda for the plenary session on 11 June and proposed that the second reading be closed. At its meeting on 9 June, the Committee on Social Affairs approved the second-reading procedural documents and decided that, if the second reading of the draft was completed, the third reading of the draft would take place on Wednesday of the following week, i.e. 18 June. Heljo Pikhof was elected rapporteur for the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U853	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have a lot of questions. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U854	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have submitted a draft for a second reading with an explanatory memorandum and the explanatory memorandum states in black that the child benefit will rise as from 1 January 2016 onwards from the third child. The draft itself states that it will rise from 1 January 2015. Which date should be considered correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U855	Thank you for your question. It's definitely 2015; there's been a little mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U856	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U857	Thank you. Good performer! How do you intend to ensure that child benefits continue to increase, not only once? Perhaps there will be a situation where they will not be increased for 10 years. Indexing would still be quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U858	As you remember, we discussed this quite thoroughly in the Commission. Indexing is perhaps a good idea, but perhaps the better idea is that next year, when there are Riigikogu elections, we will decide to increase child support to EUR 60 for the first and the second child. That is, our election promises foresee it, and later we will do it. If we start indexing, we won't make it to 60 euros in ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U859	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U860	Thank you, dear waitress. By rejecting the very good proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, you have justified it in such a way that people cannot have reasonable expectations if, with the legislative amendment adopted in 2012, child support had increased to EUR 95,9 since the third child. Does this mean that no person can have a reasonable expectation of an increase in child benefit before 1 January 2015 that no family will be able to plan anything before that, because perhaps in the meantime something else will change? What did you mean by reasonable expectation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U861	Thank you for your question. That is the justification of the initiator of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U862	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U863	Thank you, Commissioner. You said that you did not support the Central Party Group's proposal to index child support every year because you want to come up as socialists with another election promise for the extraordinary increase in child support. However, in the case of pensions, indexation exists and does not exclude extraordinary increases. Don't you think it would make sense to introduce an annual increase in this support in line with the cost of living, because it is this that has softened the price increase for older people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U864	Thank you. I'm so sorry if you misunderstood me! Since this Riigikogu time will end very soon, I hope that everyone will vote for this increase in child benefit next Wednesday, in favour of the increase in child benefit to EUR 45 per month. If I look at this draft, which has been presented by the Centre Party Group, it is precisely stated when, in the year, and how much child support will increase. After all, your idea has also been to increase child support to 60 euros a month. I'm just saying, if we're putting indexing on right now, that means we're giving the wrong signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U865	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U866	Thank you. These arguments for rejecting the IRL Group's proposal on child support for families with three or more children are not very convincing. You said that five people in the Commission voted against this proposal. Maybe you'll tell me who the five people were who really don't understand which rock the lobsters are hiding under when we're talking about our population processes and how our families cope.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U867	Thank you. I told you your reasons before. Child benefit does not rise to EUR 4.1 from next year, but rises to EUR 23.28 for the third and each subsequent child of the family. This recital was already different from the actual content of the amendment. The justification must always be in line with the content of the amendment. It is not the case that, as of 1 January 2015, the allowance will increase to EUR 4.1 for the third and each subsequent child of the family. When we talk about the third and every next child, the support will increase, I repeat once again, EUR 23.28. And this is completely, let's say, more or less correlated, as you've wanted, with the increase in the support of the first and second children of the family. Support for the first and second children of the family will increase by 25.82 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U868	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U869	The question was, who of the members of the Riigikogu voted against this sensible proposal. I repeat, this proportion is pretty important. And the change that the allowance will increase to EUR 96 per child, when there are three children in the family, had already been made earlier, it is simply a matter of entry into force. As a result of the increase in support for the first and second children, the proportion actually goes out of place and that is why our proposal had been initiated. This is a very fundamental proposal when we monitor both our demographic processes and family behaviour. But my request is again that perhaps you speak of the five people who dare to make such decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U870	Thank you for your question. We have a record of the result of the vote. We don't have names in the record. You know perfectly well that protocol by name isn't usually made. If we come to the fact that the minutes are put in a name that was against, who was in favour or who abstained, then the names are known.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U871	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U872	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have always stressed that the third child's allowance will not rise to EUR 4.1, but to EUR 23. Please tell me, were child support changed in 2012 and a law was passed that increased child support, or has it not been done and has not been adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U873	Thank you for your question. A clear adjustment shows that if the child benefit is currently EUR 76.72 and will rise to EUR 100 from 1 January 2015, the increase will be EUR 23.28.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U874	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U875	Thank you. So, what's your message to the rich families? Should there be more than one-two children in the family, since you have gone more forcefully to raise the allowance for these children, or do you also find that larger families still need child support more?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U876	Thank you. If we raise the support of the first and second children in the family, it will certainly help large families as well. I have met a lot of parents in families rich in children, and they have asked that if, for example, there are four children in their family, two children still go to school and receive child support and two are in the university, why do they receive only EUR 19 according to the current system? If we raise the support of the first and second children, it will actually help families with children in such a situation. It's very important. And when we look at the current demographic situation, unfortunately, the first child is often no longer born into the family. If we look at what these reasons are, one of the reasons is definitely that state support is low. There are also insufficient kindergarten and childcare facilities; there are fears that they will not be able to provide their children with a full childhood or provide a good education. Those are the reasons. Once again, if we raise the support of the first and second children in the family, it will certainly also help families with children's wealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U877	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U878	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Unfortunately, you did not answer my question as to whether or not a law was passed in 2012 to increase child support. I'm asking you to answer it anyway! As I understand your answers, the increase in support for the first two children will also help to improve the economic situation of families with three, four, five and more children. Yeah, that's right. But this logic could also mean that we do not need to raise the first and second child's support to EUR 45, but we will only raise the first child's allowance to EUR 90, because in a two-child family, the increase in the first child's support to EUR 90 will have the same positive effect on the situation. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U879	Thank you for your question. Anyway, you can think, so that's what your thinking is. If you're talking about 2012, please read the draft explanatory statement, it's all there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U880	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U881	Thank you. It occurred to me, as it were, that the result of the vote was recorded in your committee's minutes, such as 5: 1 or 5: 2 without a record of who voted. I may want to watch, in a month's time, the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs. What kind of custom is it not to write down who was in favour and who was opposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U882	It's always been like this in the protocol. I don't know why, it's been a tradition for years. If the order is changed, it should be done by all the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U883	Now, if Heimar Lenk raised his hand up and said he had a procedural question, I'd answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U884	I won't. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U885	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U886	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You mentioned a number of things, which is why many families have decided to postpone the birth of the first child. Would you order these reasons? You mentioned the shortage of kindergarten places and the small size of some grants. But what are the most important factors: are they subsidies, or is it all else that the municipality and the state should provide for children in cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U887	Thank you for your question. We can all get to know various studies. I have said a lot in this Chamber, which is the first reason why people are giving up their desire to have two or three children. When prospective potential parents are asked how many children they want in the family, the answer is mostly two or three children. What, then, prevents this desire from being realized? The first reason is that 50% of respondents refer to insufficient material support from the State. The second is the lack of childcare facilities and the third is the failure to provide a child with a full childhood and adequate education. Of course, other services are also very important, and I think we will continue here. We have planned to move on to the subject of free school food, and we are also planning to develop some kind of basis for giving children an education of interest. There are still a number of things that the local government and the state could offer to make families with children feel that every child is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U888	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U889	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have repeatedly avoided an answer to the question of whether in 2012 the decision was taken to increase child benefit from a third child or not. I have a big request for you: be sincere for a moment and tell me whether or not it was decided this way!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U890	Dear Siim Valmar Kisler, I have always been sincere. And if you want, check the bill at the time. But I also say that yes, that decision was taken in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U891	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U892	Thank you. Honourable waitress! One of the objectives of this draft is certainly to alleviate the problems of families and children suffering from poverty. Can this draft be called a need-based bill for raising children's benefits? And are those children who are currently in the target group that I have just mentioned, still receiving the most help?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U893	Thank you for your question. Indeed, families with one or two children receive the most help because they do not receive the third child's support. What is very important about this draft is, as we have already said at first reading, that needs-based child support will rise from EUR 9 to EUR 45. Let's say if there is one child in the family, it's 45 euros, if there are two children in the family or more, it's 90 euros. I think it is a very strong support for those living in relative poverty. To illustrate: if there are two children in the family and universal child benefit rises to 45 euros per child and the family lives in relative poverty, the family will receive 180 euros in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U894	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U895	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I see that the explanatory memorandum has a little bit of a quirky structure. I quote: 'Since the above version has not entered into force, it is not a realisable right. ' We have, however, jointly understood in this Chamber that, according to the law in force, child benefit from the third and more children from 1 January would indeed be EUR 96, and the draft we are currently dealing with raises it by EUR 4 compared to the law already coming into force on 1 January. In view of this, the proportion when we talk about the structure of child benefits is shifting to the detriment of third and more children. Why did you and the majority of the members of the Commission think this was reasonable, and what does it really give to families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U896	Thank you for your question. I'll also give you the justification for the IRL. I will read out what you have said in your explanation why you want this change: '... The increase in child benefits for third and more children must not be limited to EUR 4.1 but must be at least as high as the increase in child benefits for the first and second children. " So if the allowance for the third and more children is currently EUR 76.72 and the allowance for the first and second children is slightly more than EUR 19, the allowance for the third and more children will rise to EUR 23.28 and the allowance for the first and the second children will rise to EUR 25.82. There's a correlation when you calculate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U897	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U898	Thank you. Dear waitress, When I listened to this talk, I realized that we should do the elections more often so that we could then allow more often and maybe more often increase the money for children. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U899	No, you misunderstood me. I just wanted to say that the Centre Party Group has also supported the idea and proposed a draft to increase the support of the first and second children to EUR 60. You have planned to reach this in 2017, but I think that if child support increases to EUR 45 now, your wish is also met. After all, you didn't plan to raise the support of your first child in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U900	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U901	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I do not quite understand, in the meantime, just as you said and agreed that the law was passed in 2012 and the support of the third child increased. Now you spoke again about how there was a debate in the Commission that the explanation of the IRL, as if the grant would increase by EUR 4 for a third child, is wrong. But when this support was increased in 2012, we were right. For what reason did the Members of the Commission still reject the IRL proposal? Perhaps there was the same confusion in the Commission as in your report here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U902	Thank you. There's no confusion in my report. I repeat: in 2012 child benefit was certainly not increased to EUR 100 per month in a family with three or more children from the third child. You're trying to say that, but that's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U903	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U904	Thank you. I have this question: if we did not deal with this bill here now, what would happen in 2015 with the support of a third child?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U905	If we didn't deal with this bill here right now, the child benefit would grow to a family with three or more children. I didn't say it wouldn't grow, but I'm saying it's different from your explanatory statement. Please read the explanatory statement submitted by the IRL Group thoroughly, perhaps you are not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U906	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U907	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the fact that quite a lot has been said about the numbers and content of this draft, I am still happy to speak up on this very important and good draft once again on the basis of my own views. The Reform Party has always considered that one child living in need is too much for Estonia. As a result, a reform of the need-based increase in child support was launched two years ago in order to support children in deprived families more effectively than before. Today we have reached the second reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act. I will repeat here the exact amounts and figures. As agreed by the Government Union of the Estonian Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party on 20 March 2014, this draft law intends to increase child support for the first and second children to 45 euros per month and for the third and each subsequent child to 100 euros per month. According to the Coalition Agreement, the need-based family allowance paid to families living in relative poverty also doubles that paid to other families. When determining income support, the proportion of the child is increased by equalising that of the adult family member. The aim is to support families with children more and more effectively. All universal child benefits will increase from the first child of the family. Child benefits are set as a specific amount and no longer depend on the amount of child benefits. This is a monthly allowance paid from the birth of the child until the age of 16. If the child continues his/her studies, the child benefit will continue until the child reaches the age of 19. Thus, the basis for calculating family benefits, including child benefits, remains the same as the general principles currently in force. You can apply for child benefit retroactively within six months of your entitlement. As we become the law of the bill, we will take a step closer to the goal of reducing child poverty and improving the livelihood of families. The law therefore makes children's consumption of income support equal to that of the first member of the family, which means that the income support for families with children will increase. The need-based family allowance paid to families with low incomes will also be increased. The adoption of the draft is accompanied by certain changes to the state budget. The amount of money paid for child benefits in the state budget will increase by around 73 million euros in 2015, which means that in 2015 the total cost of child benefit will be more than 151.4 million euros. That's a lot of money. Indeed, those in need must necessarily be supported. But let's ask, are all beneficiaries in need and inevitably need of this money? Some time ago, I proposed giving families the opportunity to give up a part or even a whole child benefit if they feel that they do not need it. There are certainly families in Estonia whose budget is neither the current child allowance of EUR 19 nor the increase to EUR 45, because the financial situation of the family is good enough. What if these families were offered the opportunity to give up all or part of the child benefit? Are we ready for this? We could, for example, set up a public foundation to support vulnerable families in which to place this money. I think it would be reasonable to move towards a more responsible society where public support is not taken for granted, but when it is received, the question is whether no one else needs this money more. This attitude, in turn, will help to keep taxes low and promote an economic environment with fewer redistribution, which in turn will ensure a better life for all. I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U908	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U909	By proposing to those who feel that, thanks to their incomes, they no longer need state support for children, I sincerely hope that there are many people in our society who would like to join this idea. There is currently no initiative group or working group. There is only a thought, but it can also be the beginning of an act. However, obviously this idea requires getting used to and discussion. How the system should work is hard to say in one stroke. In our e-country, it is possible that, for example, when completing the tax return, the grant for the coming year will be waived by marking the line for that purpose. There are certainly a number of opportunities that technology can be developed if society is ready to do so. We are used to thinking and saying that children are the top priority in our society and without them our country has no meaning or future. It is worth thinking about how to fill these beautiful words with material works. The draft we discussed here is one concrete act, although I admit it is not yet 100% sufficient. I propose that the second reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws be stopped and that the law be adopted as soon as possible. That's all I've got for this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U910	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please! An extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U911	Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa and Res Publica Association welcomes the fact that child benefits are increasing, that children's share in coping is growing to the full, and that attention has finally been paid to child poverty in families where one or two children are growing, in addition to what has already been done in the initiative of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party. There is, however, one fundamental thing that came out of this discussion and that makes us deeply concerned about all the good things in the bill. When we look at the in-depth studies that have been carried out in Estonia on poverty, we see that families with three or more children and single parents are at the greatest risk of poverty in all households. Childrenless families with two working adults live best in the Republic of Estonia. The difference between these two ends is enormous. It is precisely because childhood is actually a risk of poverty that has been analysed at length and in depth in the country's current policies, supported by ministries and Statistics Estonia's data, that it is understood that, yes, every child must be supported, but, above all, families with many children must be supported. Although the proportion of families with many children is extremely low, families with many children make up only 2.5% of all households, one in five Estonian children is growing there. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association are not in a position to adopt an approach in which families with many children must go out asking for alms. Yes, there is a growing need for child support, but we consider it deeply abnormal that public policies that have made progress so far are being cut down and since the third child there is no longer a large, perceived increase in child support, but that this support is only increasing by EUR 4.1 compared to the law that we have adopted today. I'm actually embarrassed about the bathroom. It is not difficult to say that this law was passed in 2012, and according to the law currently in force on 1 January 2015, all the longer-term accounts of the state budget have already been made for this purpose, and from the third child child child child allowance will indeed increase to EUR 95,9. So, in essence, we will only add EUR 4.1 with this draft. When I take the speech of the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group on 21 May, in the seven minutes he was able to speak, there were seven mistakes in the speech. I'm gonna use this arena here to fix these mistakes. The first false claim was that child benefits are now increasing for the first time in over 10 years. That statement is a lie! Child benefits have increased to 76.72 euros per child since the third child, according to the Act adopted in 2012, and have increased to 95.9 euros per child since 1 January 2015. The needs-based child benefit for the first and second children was also introduced as early as 2013. In 2013, we also implemented the need-based education allowance for free higher education, in 2008 home support for families with many children, and in that time the 1500 families who needed it most have received it. Since 2006, the second child's income tax exemption has been applied. 2013 became an addition to the parental pension, the foundation of which has now been considerably shaken. So there is no way to agree that in 10 years nothing has been done to increase child benefits. Nor is it true that on 1 January 2015, the third and each subsequent child's allowance will increase from EUR 76,72 to EUR 100 per month. What is true is that the grant will increase by EUR 4.1, i.e. EUR 100 per month, although the nominal amount as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment proposed by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union should have increased to EUR 120. This EUR 20 has unfortunately been a loss for the coalition to give to those families where poverty is greatest and where the need for this money is greatest. The third child's allowance will not increase EUR 5 but EUR 4, the difference of only 20%, but it is a good thing that this has been paid attention to in previous speeches. More than twofold increase in universal child support is indeed an important step towards increasing the sense of security in families with one or two children. In families where more children are growing, i.e. one in five children in Estonia, we cannot talk about increasing the sense of security in a situation where any expectation of an increase in child benefits already adopted by law is considered unreasonable. Tricking with child benefits certainly does not increase the sense of family security. And we hope that in the future, there will be so much respect for our smallest companions in Estonian society in this Chamber that we will not try to show ourselves larger by lying about the decisions that have already been taken. When we come back to the next mistake, planning of children's costs in the longer term has been highlighted. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft regarding the rejection of the proposal of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, any long-term planning is stamped unreasonable. This, of course, is not what we sign. I sum up the most important thing: children do not have to mean poverty, and a family with a child does not have to mean that you have to go and ask for help. We consider it extremely important that child support also grows proportionally to third and more children in the family to at least EUR 120 per month as from 1 January 2015. We ask for this amendment to be supported in the full chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U912	Heljo Pikhof, please! An extra eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U913	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll say a few words about what Liisa said. We have always talked in this Chamber about raising the support of the first and second children, but it has not been done for ten years. Another thing: when we talk about raising child benefit from 1 January 2015, it will still rise to EUR 100 per month on 1 January 2015, which is not currently more than EUR 96 per month. I fully agree with you that families with children should not live in poverty and should not fall into poverty, but families with one or two children must also be considered, not only for families with many children. If families with one or two children live in poverty, no more children will be born. They shouldn't go asking for help, either. If we look at Europe's dramatically changed circumstances, no one will doubt the need to strengthen national defence. However, the issue of security, which is not less important for our country, is our children, namely the low birth rate, which has fallen particularly sharply over the last three years, and the emigration of potential parents. According to Statistics Estonia's forecast, as current trends continue, the Estonian population will decline by 125,000 in the coming 30 years, and the number of women of childbearing age will fall despite the fact that we are at the top. It is true that on average two or three children are wanted in the Estonian family, but the lack of confidence that the support of the state could be expected in difficult circumstances is too often a weight language for deciding to limit themselves to one child. Every child needs the support of the state, needs it now. The less children are born, the more important it is to make sure that none of them grows in poverty and deprivation, they do not grow. And on the other side, the more uncertain the situation of families with children is in Estonia, the less children we have, and the more people when we start a family go abroad. Knowing that a child will receive a little support, through an entire childhood, adds confidence to potential parents. Perhaps we can find one answer to this question from a study of the so-called cost of raising a child, which recently hit the media, which was completed at the University of Tartu's Centre for Applied Research. The comparison is based on households with children and childless households. The average cost of a child is 280 euros per month. According to age, this amount varies: it takes a little over 400 euros to be an infant, even more to be spent on the 18 to 19-year-olds, and in the meantime it will be a little easier. Let us remember that we now have 44000 children and young people living in poverty in Estonia. It's a question of what to do. The attitude of the state, local governments, society as a whole should strongly favour and encourage those who have any plans to have children to worry about them. In order to ensure that no one is in doubt, every child in Estonia is welcome and the state helps to ensure that children grow up in decent conditions so that they can have a good education and develop their talents. So far, the social democrats have seen and called for the poverty of children to be alleviated as a cross-party goal that promises the future. According to the new draft, all universal child benefits would increase from January next year: for the first and second children of the family, 45 euros per month and 100 euros per month for the third and each subsequent child. In order to improve the living situation of families with some, others and third children, the consumption of children is made equal to that of the first member of the family when determining income support. The need-based family allowance paid to families on low incomes is also increased. At present, the need-based family allowance for a single-child family is 9.59 euros per month and for a family with two or more children 19.18 euros per month. In the coming year, the need-based amount of child benefit would be EUR 45 and 90 per month, respectively. From January, all families with children receiving income support will also receive needs-based child support on the basis of a mere application, without the need for ever-increasing collection of new evidence and cost documents. The Annex also comes from the state in addition to financial support in the form of services. The Coalition Agreement provides for the development of a kindergarten programme, which also provides euro money. Measures aimed at families with children are therefore so- and so-like, not all right now and at the same time, need to be kept a little bit of a record. If we look further from here, it is in the sense of ensuring state-funded early childhood education during the pre-school year, and a round-trip for all children, that is the idea of social democrats. According to the above-mentioned study, there was also an alarming amount of money spent on recreational education and on games, books and electronic equipment to support the development of the child. If we have school food available until the end of the upper secondary school, why not give the kindergarten a free meal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U914	Mailis Reps, please! Please, an extra time, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U915	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! On the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and other laws already at second reading today, we all have reason to congratulate each other and say that what the Riigikogu is dealing with today is indeed extremely positive. We want to increase family allowances, child allowances, and what anyone should be against is that the first and second children of the family have also been judged to be slightly higher than EUR 19, worth as much as EUR 45. In the next few minutes, I will highlight a few points that the opposition considers necessary to highlight in this draft law. The first and most important question, of course, is whether the current quite significant and marked increase from EUR 19 to EUR 45 is something that will remain in place for the next ten years. If we look at history, family benefits have at some point been a very important issue and then have been forgotten for quite a long time. I certainly would not like to see EUR 45 stand untouched for the next ten years and then, in anticipation of some extraordinary change in coalition, it becomes a great election promise. That is why the Centre Party Group suggested that, as in the case of pensions, annual indexation should be introduced for child benefits. This would allow the cost of living to be taken into account and would lead to not a very large but still significant movement according to the possibilities of our budget and the economic situation. Why is this important? It is precisely because, if we monitor the changes in our economic environment and the rise in prices, this support should help families with children and, as the previous speakers have pointed out here, it will, unfortunately, also lead to the risk of poverty, so that costs can be compensated to some extent in a certain rhythm. The second issue is the dispute over the future and present of child benefits, and then this new and famous one could also say the infamous need-based support introduced by the previous coalition. On the one hand, it is a great thing if we want to combat poverty and put in place needs-based family support for families, especially those in great difficulty, in public family benefits. However, in the first period of implementation of this €9 grant, the receipt of it meant going to quite a number of families to the centre, additional costs and complicated paperwork, and feedback from local social workers shows that this did not actually work. There are plenty of examples where this self - proof of need seemed offensive to these larger families. Therefore, one of the measures, also based on analyses that we have done quite enough in the Republic of Estonia, could not be income support or income support for three or more children, but, in any case, already higher child benefit. In that case, this necessity should no longer be interpreted. On the other hand, child benefit could then be removed from the income limit for the first and second children, as in reality this increase in child benefit will be taken back through the income limit, which will then have to be compensated again through the need-based support through paperwork for the same amount. A relatively pointless circle, where the sum of the sum of this most demanding family will eventually receive more or less the same amount. These are the nuances that should definitely be looked at in the case of draft law 669. But given that we have reached second reading, the practice of the Riigikogu shows that this bill will not be changed in practice. We will implement this law and then we will probably come back with these tails, either in this or in the next Riigikogu, to the law again. The reason why it is important here for the third and next children to point out these different rates of benefits and the need-based support not separately is that the risk of poverty in the third and more children's families is higher and the number of families who do not go into need-based care is actually so small that there is no need for any additional paperwork. However, with regard to not taking account of the limits of living, there is simply a fundamental dispute with the Ministry of Finance. There is no real justification why this is not possible. Why is there a need-based child benefit instead? Once again, the question is that one or another of our own promises is to be fulfilled and not abandoned. Finally. As I have already said, this is certainly a very positive draft. It is a pity that the part of indexation did not receive a sufficient majority in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I hope that you will seriously think about voting in this Chamber. This could be one of those solutions that would ensure that we, not to mention the first and second children, the third and next children, should not be back in the same place in ten years' time to say that EUR 45 is very good, but in fact, the subsidies should be much higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U916	Thank you very much. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U917	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I was prompted by a very beautiful speech by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, where he described very well the serious concerns that we have regarding the brunt of the Estonian people. I really share these concerns. However, I was disturbed by one thing from today's debate. When the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union proposed that the amount of child benefit for the third and each subsequent child of the family be EUR 120, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee explained why the Commission did not support the proposal, because the members of the committee did not like the justification or explanation that this proposal had been accompanied. Obviously, we can continue to argue here about how reasonable it is for people to expect to receive more child support in the same way from a third child, or how to formulate exactly when the Act enters into force. But let us be honest, nor did the government association fail to support this proposal because it did not like the wording of the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica. Tell me honestly that you didn't support me because there wasn't enough money. Or maybe it was because you really did find that it is now more necessary to increase the support for the first and second children and not so much to increase the support for children's rich families for the next children. Say it honestly, but don't hide behind such funny rhetoric that the explanation of the proposal was not appropriate for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U918	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 2 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the commission has been disregarded. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U919	Thank you. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U920	All right, let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 27 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 is from the Centre Party Group; the commission has not taken account of it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U921	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. For a thorough reflection of the proposal, please take a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U922	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U923	Honourable Riigikogu, the break taken by the Centre Party Group has ended. We're going to vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 by the Centre Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U924	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and, at Valdo Randper's request, I would just like to ask for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U925	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-11_U926	Dear Riigikogu, the five-minute break taken by the Central Party Group has ended. A new day has come, and we will begin the vote on the fourth amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on an amendment tabled by the Central Party Group, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill 669 is complete.
