ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U1	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today is the Day of Remembrance for the March Deportation Victims, and I propose that the sitting be opened with a silence to commemorate the victims of the March Deportation. [[The silence of grief.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the ninth Tuesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu provides the Riigikogu with an overview of the activities of the Committee and the supervision of security and surveillance institutions in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U3	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit a draft law supplementing the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act to the Riigikogu proceedings. It is probably not very surprising when I say that from the left side, the activity in the hall seems somewhat different from the right side, where I have been sitting for a long time. I guess some things were visible before, and I was actually planning to gather questions, because the right to protection and expression of a minority is not guaranteed in the best way in many cases. However, this case, where the draft law I tabled did not even reach the committee's agenda within the procedural deadline, forces me to submit a new clause to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. It will probably also protect the IRL Group, which is taking up opposition with the Centre Party. I propose that § 97 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu be added to the following wording: if the commission has not submitted a draft for the first reading within the time limit laid down in the Act, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu shall place it on the agenda of the plenary assembly on its own initiative, provided that the commission has the opportunity to discuss the draft and to take decisions relating to the first reading at the ordinary or extraordinary session of the committee. I hope that the deadline will be respected when this bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also adopted an overview, which the Bureau takes note of. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 26 March, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 85 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present and 16 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. Today's only item is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Act on the financing of European Union aid under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and on the allocation of financial assistance for the Overseas Countries and Territories to which Part Four of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U7	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. This draft concerns the area of development cooperation and, in order to be ratified, you have before you an agreement between the countries of the European Union on aid for the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries in 2014 to 2020. The partnership agreement between the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States and the European Union was signed in 2000 in Cotonou, the capital of Bénin, and according to this city, the agreement has been named after it. Under the agreement, the European Union will provide assistance to countries in the region totalling EUR 29.1 billion under the next multiannual financial framework, i.e. until 2020. To finance all this, the countries of the European Union set up 11. The European Development Fund (EDF) for which this agreement has been prepared to determine the volume of resources and contributions and the arrangements for payment. Estonia's contribution shall be 11. 0.086% of the European Development Fund (EDF), i.e. nearly EUR 22.3 million over a period of six years. This money is provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, and it also takes into account the contribution of Estonian development cooperation. In addition to the contribution, Member States shall guarantee loans from the European Investment Bank under the Cotonou Agreement. The precise commitments will be defined in a guarantee agreement concluded with the Bank by the Ministry of Finance. Through the European Development Fund, Estonia, like all other Member States of the European Union, supports poverty reduction and economic development in the European Union's partner countries covered by this agreement. Our support will hopefully contribute to reducing migration flows and also mitigate the consequences of famines, natural disasters and other crises. Thus, if these problems are reduced in other parts of the world, they will have a long-term positive impact on the whole of the European Union, including Estonia. Estonia signed this agreement on 24 June last year and will enter into force once approved by all the countries of the European Union. Estonia will have to ratify this agreement in the Riigikogu if this agreement is approved. We have once concluded and approved a similar agreement. This was an agreement for the 2008-2013 period, which was ratified by the Riigikogu in June 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U8	Thank you very much. Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhin's question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U9	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Will the ACP countries be supported only by the European Union, or have other international organisations adopted similar laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U10	These countries certainly have bilateral and group agreements with international financial organisations, but mainly on loan issues. Since the European Union is now the world's largest contributor to development cooperation, the European Union certainly offers the most to these countries. Thus, international financial organisations in particular provide loans and the European Union mainly provides development assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U11	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 11 March. a. The initiator was represented by Peter Pedak, senior lawyer at the Office of International Law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The subject hunted passion and raised some questions. I'll share the answers from this remote with you. The first question concerned an increase in the volume of aid compared to the 2008-2013 period, and the answer was that this volume was indeed higher. In 2008-2013. The total aid in 2006 was 22.7 billion euros, then it is now 30,5 billion billion euros and Estonia's participation has also increased. Interest was further expressed as to whether aid under the Internal Agreement would be taken into account as external aid. It was answered: yes, it is. The budget strategy for the period 2014 to 2017 foresees that the amount allocated to development cooperation and humanitarian aid should reach 0.19% of GNI by 2017. It is now 0.156%, or slightly lower than it should be by 2017. Since, according to the agreement, the Member States also undertake to act as guarantor of the loan, there was an interest as to whether this was reflected in Estonia's loan burden. The short answer was that it was not reflected. It was also asked where a decision was taken that the State would make such a financial commitment. It was replied that this decision had been adopted on the basis of the positions of the Government, which had been presented to the Commission for European Union Affairs and which had therefore received a mandate. Finally, there were two other questions. What happens if the Internal Agreement is not ratified? The answer is that in this case the agreement will not enter into force. What are the benefits of this agreement for Estonia? The benefits are that Estonia shows itself to be an interested country in development cooperation; in the European Union, our security is guaranteed, and the indirect benefits are also to control migration flows. That was the only question-answers in the Commission. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Tuesday 25 March, i.e. today, to finish the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-25_U13	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 585. First reading is complete. I shall set draft 585 as the deadline for the submission of amendments. a on 1 April at 5.15 p.m. Our agenda today is exhausted. Thank you very much for your participation and until tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 10:14 a.m.
