ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1	We are moving forward at a speedy pace, as we have done so far. The eighth item is Aare Heinvee, Aivar Riisalu, Andrus Ansip, Arto Aasa, Barbi Pilvre, Eiki Nestori, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Heljo Pikhofi, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kadri Simson, Kaja Kallas, Kalle Jents, Kalle Palling, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michali, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Laas, Lauri Luige, Mailis Repsi, Maimi Bergi, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälbergi, Rein Aidma, Remo Holsmer, Tarmo Leinamme, Tatjana Jaansoni, Tiina Lokk-Trambergi, Neeme Sui, Olga Sõtnik, Rainer Raustru, Raitje and Others. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Riigikogu Valdo Randpere! I'm sorry! Aivar Chef, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U2	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U3	No, it's not. You're sure, aren't you? Then take that button out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U4	I have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U5	Oh, question! Okay, okay. Then leave the button on, don't take it out. Okay. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Two months ago, on 17 April, the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste handed over to the Riigikogu the draft law on partnership initiated by 40 members of the Riigikogu, which will arrive at your first reading today. Rait Maruse began his speech by passing on this draft with the following words: 'Estonia is a democratic rule of law founded on freedom in accordance with our constitution, where everyone is equal before the law, everyone's rights and freedoms are respected and no one is to be discriminated against. ' Those Rait Marust words are today, two months later, perhaps more topical than ever, more topical than I could have imagined. This bill has become a real test of tolerance, liberality, but also of honesty for politicians and everyone interested in it. I call on all the debaters on this draft to be, above all, honest today and in the future. Let us be honest and talk about what this bill contains and what it changes. Let it be said from the beginning once again to everyone who has not understood it or has not wanted to understand it: the Cohabitation Act does not legalise the same-sex marriage in Estonia and does not give the same-sex couples the right to adopt. I say once again, very slowly and with a loud and clear voice: the Cohabitation Act does not legalise the same-sex marriage in Estonia and does not give the same-sex couples the right to adopt. The assertions that this bill is somehow undermining our constitution or endangering the family institution are unfounded. This draft concerns all those who have chosen a common-law relationship as a form of partnership. It is estimated that 170,000 of these people are in Estonia, over 99% of whom are heterosexual couples who for some reason have not wanted to get married or have not been able to do so. Some hundreds of couples are of the same sex, who currently do not have the opportunity to obtain any minimum legal protection from the state for their relations in Estonia. However, coming back to the words of Rait Marust, the Republic of Estonia is a democratic rule of law founded on freedom in accordance with the Constitution, where everyone is equal before the law, everyone's rights and freedoms are respected and no one is discriminated against. This bill has been accused of being carried out hastily and over the top. Let us also look at this statement and take a brief look at the process that has brought us here today to the first reading of this draft. Over the last few years, the Ministry of Justice has been actively involved in seeking an answer to the question of whether and how the legal consequences of non-marital cohabitation, including cohabitation of same-sex couples, should be regulated. The aim of the Ministry of Justice is to ensure adequate legal protection for non-marital partners in such a way as not to undermine the institution of marriage or reduce the motivation of couples to enter into marriage. As a first major step, the Ministry of Justice published an analysis of non-marital cohabitation and its legal regulation in the summer of 2009, five years ago, and asked the public address published that year for proposals and reflections on whether and how future regulation of non-marital cohabitation should be developed. Many authorities and persons submitted opinions and suggestions on the analysis prepared by the Ministry of Justice. In addition, in his letter of 23 May 2011 to the Minister of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice considered that the legal framework in force did not sufficiently guarantee the protection of the rights of the partners in fact and that it was therefore necessary to supplement the legal regulation in this respect. Among other things, the Chancellor of Justice took the view that the permanent cohabitation of same-sex persons falls within the scope of the fundamental right of the family, which is why the Constitution precludes a situation in which such cohabitation is not legally regulated. On 1 August 2011, the Ministry of Justice proposed four options for the political parties in the new Parliament to regulate non-marital cohabitation and asked for their views on this. Responses were received from all four parliamentary parties. According to these, three quarters of the political parties represented in Parliament consider that the issue should be addressed, and one quarter considers the current situation to be satisfactory. There is therefore political readiness to deal with legal issues arising from non-marital relationships at law level. An interparty working group was formed in the Riigikogu in the spring of this year, which together with the Ministry of Justice put together a draft text. The draft Cohabitation Act sets out a comprehensive gender-neutral regulation covering the legal relationships between persons who have concluded a partnership agreement and legal relations with third parties. From the analysis to date, it can be concluded that the legal consequences of non-marriage partnerships, including same-sex couples, need to be regulated. The analysis revealed that a large number of couples live in non-marital partnerships in Estonia, and the majority of children are born extramaritally. Today, 60% of children are born in Estonia outside of marriage, which is why we are clear leaders in the European Union. Such developments have led to the need to protect the weaker side of the partnership. In addition, the issue of giving couples of the same sex a simpler and more flexible way to regulate their cohabitation is becoming more and more acute. There are real legal problems in the relationship between non-marital couples. The sharpest question is mostly the property acquired during the life of a partnership, including the most problematic common housing. Similarly, life partners have no mutual maintenance obligations under the applicable law and one after another can only inherit if they have a will or a succession agreement. In response to the letters sent to the public, a number of problem situations were identified where the current law does not offer well-functioning solutions. For example, difficulties in applying for housing loans, problems in dividing assets acquired jointly in the event of separation, problems in determining and inheriting the number of beneficiaries of social benefits, banning hospital visits, inability to give consent to medical procedures and problems in the exercise of parental rights. People living in non-marital partnerships, regardless of gender, are exposed to these problems. The Cohabitation Act includes a flexible package of options to address the most common legal problems. In addition, the termination of the partnership agreement is accompanied by a simplified procedure for the transition from the partnership agreement to the marriage in order to motivate persons of different sexes to enter into a partnership agreement in order to protect their rights. At present, the legal protection of non-marital people requires better than average legal knowledge and therefore lacks the entrepreneurial spirit and the incentive to regulate their cohabitation legally. However, the conclusions of the forthcoming proposals pointed out that the possibility of registering partnerships for special-sex couples was not strictly necessary. Indeed, the parties are somewhat protected by the regulation of the partnership agreement and there is an opportunity to enter into a marriage. First of all, the function of the Cohabitation Act could be to protect their rights in situations where marriage is not recommended or is not yet ready for it. The Cohabitation Act allows for a transitional period for special-sex persons when the rights and obligations of the parties are less extensive. For example, the partner's maintenance obligation is limited to each other, as well as the parties' choice as to whether the maintenance obligation will continue to apply after the termination of the contract. However, it also helps to motivate partners of different sexes to regulate their legal relationships. The current legal framework requires the parties to be active and have strong legal knowledge, for example, in order to be guided by the regulation of the partnership agreement, which, with its complexity, may seem unfathomable to the parties. The regulation of the Cohabitation Act that a notary shall draw up a contract for the parties, ensuring that the interests of the incompetent party are not undermined, and the package brought together in the law to resolve the common legal problems encourages the parties to regulate their partnership legally. Similarly, the simplified rules of the Cohabitation Act in the case of a transition from a partnership agreement to a marriage will ensure that the parties, if they do not wish to do so, do not have to pre-divide property or reach the same arrangements for the second time in the case of a marriage, once they have already agreed upon them at the time of the conclusion of the cohabitation agreement. The conclusions of the forthcoming proposals pointed out that the linking of certain social guarantees with the registration of partnerships could have a positive impact on the motivation of couples of different sexes. In doing so, the stakeholders pointed out that, if people of different sexes were allowed to regulate their cohabitation, this would help to solve the current problems of determining the number of beneficiaries of social benefits, such as the cases of soldiers who have died. The Cohabitation Act offers a complex gender-neutral standard solution to the most common legal problems that a person may face in a cohabitation. In conclusion, the conclusion of the partnership agreement is as follows: Persons wishing to enter into a contract shall contact the notary for this purpose. It examines whether the conditions for the conclusion of a partnership agreement are met and there are no circumstances preventing the conclusion of the contract. Notar's control obligation is specifically stated in the Act. Notar, convinced that the conditions for the conclusion of the contract have been fulfilled and that there are no grounds to exclude the conclusion, will start to draw up a contract with the persons wishing to conclude the partnership agreement. Notar explains the different options to the parties, including the issues that the parties must agree on (e.g. choice of property) as well as the issues referred to in the Cohabitation Act, which the parties can also agree (post-life maintenance obligation, mutual will). Both parties wishing to conclude a partnership agreement are present at the same time as the notary and express in person a declaration of intent which may not be conditional on their wish to enter into a partnership agreement. The rights and obligations of registered partners during the partnership agreement can be summarised as follows: The rights and obligations of registered partners are governed by the Partnership Agreement and by the Law, including the applicable consequences which the partners have further regulated by mutual agreement in the Partnership Agreement. A person who has concluded a partnership agreement cannot enter into a marriage at the same time; the only exception is to conclude a marriage between partners at the same time as the partnership agreement is concluded but with the conclusion of the marriage. The requirement of notarising the conclusion of a partnership agreement ensures that the partners understand their rights and obligations. The maintenance obligation provided for in the partnership agreement, which covers both property and operational contributions, helps to ensure the protection of the weaker party and ensures flexibility for the parties in the organisation of the partnership. Entries in the register shall also ensure the visibility of the differences arising from the choice of partners' property relationships to third parties. The options for ending the partnership agreement are summarised below: The partnership agreement ends when the partner dies, the partners conclude a marriage or the partnership agreement is terminated. In the event of the death of a registered partner, the termination of the contract shall be the moment of the death of the partner and the moment of the marriage of the partners. The partnership agreement can be terminated by agreement of the parties at the notary or in the event of a dispute before the court. A specific case is the termination of the partnership agreement when the partners conclude the marriage between themselves. Then agreements and transactions may end, but the Cohabitation Act provides for the possibility that legal relationships will continue, which will give people of different sexes the opportunity to transform the partnership agreement into a "simplified" marriage. The regulation of the European Union does not oblige Estonia to adopt the gender-neutral regulation of the partnership agreement. At the same time, attention must be paid to developments in other Member States of the European Union and the equal treatment of same-sex and special-sex partners, also in the light of the recent European Court of Justice ruling. In the Member States of the European Union, the institution of marriage is also open to partners of the same sex in eight countries: France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Spain, Sweden and Portugal. Same-sex partners can register partnerships in 21 countries: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Andorra, Iceland, Denmark, Germany, Finland, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Liechtenstein, Slovenia, Sweden, Great Britain, Norway, France, Switzerland and Portugal. This list included other countries, not just those of the European Union. Many countries increasingly rely on the idea that the laws should remain as neutral as possible in relation to different forms of partnership and moral treatment. People should be able to develop close relationships according to their desires and preferences by identifying the ethical foundations of their family life. However, the role of family law could be limited to providing solutions to practical problems, and assessments of forms of relationships should be avoided. I have been told, or have rather been warned, that I am committing political suicide defending this bill. If that's the case, fine. I will at least do this by being honest with myself and defending a bill that I sincerely believe in in. I have come to this on the basis of my experience in life and experience in traveling around the world. I, too, have once been a true Soviet man who was afraid of the most new and strange. I've been racist, homophobe, and generally intolerant to everything else. My transformation began in 1982 when I fled to Sweden and experienced in my skin how helpful and friendly a society can actually view a stranger, a foreign concern. From that moment on, my transformation began, but it didn't happen overnight. But here today I am prepared to commit political suicide to make Estonian society become a little more friendly, tolerant and open. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U7	Thank you. Good waitress, you have a lot of questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! See section 2 (2) of the draft law on partnership. A marriage contract may not be concluded directly between a relative who ascends and descends. Shouldn't there be 'influences of ascendants and descendants' here, because otherwise it might happen that grandparents and grandchildren should have a partnership agreement? The second point says brother and sister and half-brother and half-sister. Can Aunts and uncles be signed together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U9	I answer the first part of the question that grandparents are directly related to ascendants and descendants, although it may be specified and noted that the direct ascendants and the descending relatives of the second degree. As far as siblings, uncles, aunts and others are concerned, this is the place of political choice on which we restrict this opportunity and on which we proceed. In many respects, this choice has been due to the fact that a large part of relations between relatives is already regulated by law. They do not need the protection provided by the partnership agreement for people who are not related but wish to register their partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U10	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Interestingly, at the end of your speech, you started talking about religion. That's what I wanted to ask you about. I am a believer, and I think that most of my constituents, thousands and thousands, are also believers. It is very important to us what the Church Fathers say. I am currently faced with a letter from the Estonian Council of Churches. I think there's a letter like that on your desk. It has been signed by Archbishop Andres Põder and ten other Church Fathers. They do not support the Cohabitation Act. I don't have time to talk about why they're not doing this right now. You've met this letter. Please comment on this! How do you feel about this appeal, what the members of the Estonian Council of Churches say?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U12	Thank you. I'm very sympathetic about this. I sympathize with all people, regardless of their faith, color, or sexual tendencies. I find it very nice that they and many others are taking part in the social debate. Estonia is interestingly at the top of all the surveys in terms of the number of atheists, if not in the world, then at least in Europe. We are the least God-fearing. As far as this discussion is concerned, Christian values are often placed on the shield and tried as arguments. If you seriously study the Bible, you might think that Jesus was not married either. His relationship with Mary Magdalene was more like a common-law relationship, an unregistered partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U13	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Similar regulation in marriage has one major difference between marriage and marriage. This concerns the obligation for couples living together to support children living in the family, or rather, there is no obligation in this law to support them. If you're talking about protecting the weaker party, why doesn't the bill guarantee children the same guarantees as the family law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U15	Thank you. In principle, when it comes to a biological child, the parent has in any case a maintenance obligation. However, in the case of registered partnerships and the child is not the biological child of another partner, the draft does not provide for such maintenance obligations. This is also one of the places I highlighted as the difference between marriage and registered partnership. But when it comes to most of the questions you are asking here today, this is the first reading of the draft, and if you have any ideas or wishes on how to improve this draft, then propose improvements. The Commission's proposal is that, should the first reading be completed, amendments could be tabled until 12 September. So there's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U16	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U17	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I don't know what anybody's asking here today. How do you know that, that's interesting. Of course, you can read better than I can. My question is as follows. You mentioned twice that couples of the same sex do not have the right to adopt. I understand why male couples can't have children, but since you're experienced, you know how they can. Paragraph 16 'The right of communication and the right to adopt a registered partner', paragraph 2, states that a registered partner may apply to the court for adoption of the child of another registered partner. There is no indication that this does not apply to parents of the same sex.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U18	There is a reference to family law in this section. Section 149 of the Family Act states very clearly that an adopted child can only be adopted by the spouse of the adopter. We're not allowed to have same-sex marriages. A registered partnership does not have a spouse who can adopt an already adopted child. So in the case of a registered partnership, only adoption within the family can be considered if the registered partner wants to adopt the biological child of his partner. I don't know if you understand sometimes, but I can explain it to you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U19	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The purpose of the Act is that the Cohabitation Act provides a complex gender-neutral standard solution to the most common legal problems that a person may face from a cohabitation. However, it is noted that two natural persons can enter into a partnership agreement. Today, people have a lot of problems when they are married with children, but at the same time they are in a relationship or in a relationship with someone else who also has children. Why is the Cohabitation Act not about honeycombs that are very important for the well-being of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U21	Thank you. The draft law on cohabitation, which we have today at first reading, does not undoubtedly cover all aspects of justice and does not cover our whole lives. But if you feel that it is missing from this bill, then be nice, propose a correction or initiate a new bill to legalize what you called a honeycomb or a threesome marriage or whatever. Let's discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U22	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U23	Thank you. I happened to be listening to a radio show where you, the honorable waitress, introduced this bill. There you stressed very intensively that this bill was actually meant for straight couples living in a common-law relationship. There are 170,000 people like this, and this bill should help them. You also gave a personal example that since you've been married before, you find that your other relationship isn't like that, and that's why you don't want to get married. I do hope that most of those in common-law relationships respect their first and second relationship, not that the new relationship is not as real as it is, and they have had some other reason why they have not got married. Where does your confidence come from that people in common-law relationships will now go to do this notarial deal if they have not yet entered into a marriage, which can be done at a notary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U24	Thanks, Kaia! I'm glad you listened to that radio show. But I'm a little sad that I don't think you understood everything I said back there. The fact is, I'm married right now. I spoke there that I was once married, then divorced, and met my present husband, whom I deeply love. We lived together in Sweden for ten years without a marriage. We have two children, but we never felt the need to register our marriage, because Sweden has the possibility of registering a partnership. In fact, the possibility of recognition of cohabitation, for which I think Estonian society is not yet ready. The Ministry of Justice's analysis has also concluded that the people of Estonia may not be prepared for the fact that if they have lived together for some time, the partnership will be deemed to be registered immediately. But in Sweden, this system was in place and we lived for ten years. I never worried that if anything happened to me, what would happen to my wife, whether she would inherit our common property. There was no such problem. We moved to Estonia in spring 1998, about this time of year, and I discovered quite quickly that in Estonia's legal space, my wife is nothing to me. In the eyes of justice, he's nothing to me, he's not my heir, we don't have common property, it's good to be able to prove that we have children together. So less than a year later, we got married. I'm not saying we made a marriage of reason. I love my husband, we still live happily ever after. But I said on the radio, and I can repeat that if it had been possible to register our life together here, we would probably have chosen this option. Now we have chosen a very simple way of getting married, neither of which changed names so as not to rebel on new documents. We had a very small wedding party with only Aivar Riisalu and my ex-husband. [[The cavalry.]] Here we are, still happily married. But I gave this example simply to compare the two systems and say that neither one of them may be worse than the other, but the choice of people is important to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U25	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, Five foreign embassies made a joint statement after the draft Cohabitation Act reached the Riigikogu. I do not remember during my working time in the Riigikogu that foreign embassies have ever made any statement about the work of the Riigikogu. For example, progressive income tax should be a very progressive thing in the world that could be declared, but so far has not been done. But what has been the pressure on foreign countries to deal with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U27	First of all, I assume that if progressive income tax ever, God forbid, is legalized in Estonia, then these congratulations may come on a robin. We don't know that. I hope I don't see the day. But second, from my point of view, no one has pushed me or influenced me, no embassy, no state, no organization, no gay, no lesbians. Heterosexuals have tried to send letters, but they have not really influenced me either. I've come up with this idea of my own will and my own mind. I have supported this idea in our party since I joined the party five years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U28	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U29	Thank you. Good waitress! You called on honesty at the beginning of your speech. That is a very sympathetic appeal. You emphasised at least twice that this bill does not legalise the same-sex marriage in Estonia. However, § 9 (2) of this bill states that the marriage of persons of the same sex concluded abroad is considered valid in Estonia. This is not the case at the moment, the marriage of same-sex persons made abroad is currently not considered valid in Estonia. What is it if it's not legalization? Dear Valdo, why aren't you honest? Why don't you tell me honestly, as the case may be, that this bill still legalizes the same-sex marriage in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U30	Sweet Siim Valmar! That's what I'm saying, 'cause you called me the cute Valdo. I wasn't lying, you weren't lying, either, but you just didn't get it. There is a difference between legalisation and recognition. There is one point in this draft, which says that Estonia recognises same-sex marriages made abroad. There are some conditions. This is done, among other things, when these marriages are concluded in accordance with the law of the country of residence. This actually precludes a resident of Estonia from going abroad, getting married, and then legalising his marriage. However, it is probably already the case law of Estonia that recognises those marriages that have been concluded abroad, in compliance with the law of the country of residence. As far as I'm concerned, this sentence, frankly, can be deleted from this bill. I believe that, on the basis of the European Union's precedent, we have this obligation of recognition in litigation anyway. But I could remove this sentence from this bill, in case it would somehow bring our views closer together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U31	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U32	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am concerned about the poor quality of this bill. The Chamber of Notaries has also pointed out that the draft does not fulfil the main stated objective, i.e. the property relationships of people in a factual partnership are not regulated. Would it not be wise to withdraw this draft, replace it with a new one, or amend it in such a way as to abandon the concept of semimarriage on which it is structured, but to give people who wish to do so the opportunity to enter into very flexible joint property agreements with a notary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U33	Thank you. Basically, you're suggesting that we proceed with this bill. To a large extent, he is aiming that way to give people the opportunity to enter into flexible contracts in order to regulate property relations. The Chamber of Notaries and the Ministry of the Interior have expressed their views. I saw that there had been more of these opinions. The Chamber of Notaries has done a very grateful job, they have gone through this bill by paragraph and referred to places that need to be specified or changed. Some of their views, though, are beautifully political. I can imagine who stood up for it. I guess there's some old IRLs at work. But that's it. As I said, the deadline for tabling draft amendments is September 12. After all, the peculiarity of this draft is that, as a result of its transformation into a law, we must negotiate and possibly adapt 87 laws and 64 implementing acts, a total of 151 legislative acts. The Ministry of Justice has already begun to explain what needs to be done. It's a big job. The Ministry of Justice has promised that when the first reading of the draft is completed, they will be able to get more or less done with this work by September, and we will have a clear picture that should be amended to make this draft truly excellent. I agree that there are shortcomings in the draft, but that is the nature of the drafts, which is why they are drafts. After three readings here, they're brilliant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U34	Thank you. You misunderstood my first answer. I didn't admit that this bill is technically below all the records you said. What I said was that there is quite a lot of work to be done in order to achieve full consistency between this draft and the rest of the legislation. As for this notion of half-marriage, I don't know where you read it. The title is about living together. If you look at how partnerships are regulated in other countries, in almost all the countries where they have been made, the concept of marriage is based on the concept of common-law marriage, the concept of unregistered marriage. Because, in fact, the regulation of this relationship is very much similar to the regulation of marriage, except for some nuances. But once again, if you have any concrete good proposals, put them on the table. There's time for that until September 12th. As a member of the Riigikogu, you have the right to do so. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U35	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U36	Thank you. Good Valdo! You said that for so long, I missed half the answer. In my opinion, the initiation of this bill and now the procedure in the Chamber of the Riigikogu is a new stage in Estonian legislation, because there has been a real multiplicity of opinions. The bill has many supporters and many opponents, and at 5:30 a.m. a.m. a large number of MPs are debating this bill in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I ask about the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice as an institution. Märt Rask, former Chairman of the Supreme Court, has also put forward a number of proposals and pointed out bottlenecks in the administration of justice, which would make it necessary to amend the laws. Can it be interpreted as meaning that those who oppose the processing of this bill do not regard the institution of the Chancellor of Justice? After all, the Chancellor of Justice has told us that we have to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U37	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U38	Thank you, Kalle! I don't want to put words in my mouth for my opponents, and I don't want to bully or criticize anyone in any way, even though some people here felt I was doing it. I really don't want to do this. I do not think that the people who oppose this bill consider the Chancellor of Justice to be an empty place or a zero, but they interpret his proposals, in many ways, based on their political preferences and how they fit in with their perceptions of the day. But in my opinion, such attention-management must be taken with great seriousness. If the Riigikogu in the slightest shares the Chancellor of Justice's suspicion that there is an interference with the Constitution, these matters should be put in order. No one else in Estonia can do this except the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U39	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U40	Dear waitress, thank you for a thorough and honest presentation and for answering questions. As has already been said here, in recent days our e - mails have filled out letters against this bill, which contains both obscene and biblical texts, but this is already a matter of personal spirituality. However, many letters also mention the destruction of the nation and the disaster of statehood that this law brings with it. You know Scandinavian society well. Can you describe the consequences of adopting such and more radical laws for the Scandinavian peoples and their statehood? They have lived in this sense in a changed legal space for years, some even decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U41	Thank you. I've already told you a little about my experience in Sweden. I can generally say, by looking at how people have behaved in Estonia, that a large part of those who predict the loss and death of us when this law is passed will happily go to work in Finland, where it has been possible to register a partnership for 12 years, they go to work in Sweden with great joy, where, apart from registering a partnership, same-sex marriages are also possible. They do not think that living in a society there would harass them or kill them. It is interesting, in itself, to see how public opinion is minded in this regard. In fact, Latvia is the country of the European Union, which is the most negative in terms of the same-sex partnership and its registration or marriage. Probably also because there are quite a few Russian people there. In Estonia, too, it can be seen that they are more negative than Estonians. But I guess only 14% of the Latvians wanted to hear something like that. There were 21% of these people in Estonia during this survey, now 36% of them. I think that the societies that we describe as welfare societies have not lost anything because of this, the sky has not fallen down, no one feels unhappy. This is where it's going to read the letters, and maybe I'll just stand by. The IRL has very vigorously attacked this bill. But Eerik-Niles Kross, vice-president of your party, said on 23 April in Postimees: 'If we give couples of the same sex, who are objectively present and living among us, the right to register their union, how does this affect my marriage or your marriage? Or my wish or yours to marry? [---] I do not understand how discrimination against one minority can make someone happier. ''As far as I know, the other few stars of the IRL, who have excelled in the elections, Mr Alender, as far as I know, have supported this bill. Think about that, too, before you get really carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U42	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U43	Thank you. Honourable waitress! First of all, I am a little sad that we have to deal with this bill here in the dark of the night, which in itself would certainly suffer in the light of the day. [[Laughter. Ringing a bell.]] But why don't you specify the number of 170,000 that's been through here many times today? In the past, 170,000 people have been spoken in the media, but there have been quite a few talks about 170000 families in this hall today. The difference is exactly half. Maybe you'll be more specific. I have another question about § 9 (2), which talks about the acceptance of a registered partnership or marriage in Estonia abroad. If I understand correctly, now I don't even have to go abroad, even the English embassy can match English and Estonian citizens. So you don't even need to go abroad to get accepted anymore. In addition, in December, the Court ruled that in those countries where neutral cohabitation with the same sex has been legalised, it must be treated as a marriage. In essence, however, gay marriages are legalized by this law...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U44	Thank you. I am worried about this black and white presentation in this discussion that there are, as if, only two options, whether you are in favour or against it. There is, in fact, no substantive debate in this Chamber today. You said that the situation of children in Estonia was very good and therefore this issue was not addressed. As part of this draft, I have discussed in more detail the deterioration of the situation of children in an article published in the Estonian Päevaleht on 21 April. By the way, these differences in the subject of children are also striking in comparison with the Swedish Sambolagen, the Law on Cohabitation. Have you gotten to know this article? I don't have time to read all these concerns here. What is your attitude toward these concerns?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U45	I have to apologize! I read your article when it appeared, but I can't remember exactly what the troubles were. But I told you about the Swedish sambolagen, I remember that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U46	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U47	Thank you, good manager. As this came up in this Chamber, I would like to make it clear that the interparty working group started a year and a half ago in the National Library, where all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu were invited. Unfortunately, the only party that did not respond to the invitation and did not send its representative was the IRL. This was information for my colleague, Priit Sibula. That's why they're not aware. But I want to congratulate Liisa Pakosta, who finally joined us and made important proposals. For example, one of his comments was that the draft does not deal with non-cohabitation. He was worried about children's rights. I want to congratulate him on that. However, over 13,000 people have expressed their support for this bill on Facebook. Fortunately, the Chancellor of Justice has also confirmed in this Chamber today that this draft is not in conflict with the Constitution. He said he wanted to see the final version that would be accepted. Do you think that this law will be passed, or will these 13,000 people not meet their expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U48	The opponents of this bill have predicted that this is the first step in legitimizing gay marriages and whatever else. I don't want to be a psychic who's gonna predict what's gonna happen. I very much hope that we will get this draft today so far that we will finish our first reading and will be able to start reviewing the amendments after 12 September. In case this bill becomes a good law, we will accept it. But I do not dare predict the fate of this bill because it has really created different feelings, and it does not even go by party, but some people in each group oppose it. I don't think they're black or white, although I've just been suspected of it, it's just people have different opinions. I really hope this bill will be a law someday, but I don't dare predict it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U49	Good fellows, I have a request. There'll be up to one minute to ask the question. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U50	Thanks! There has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber about the Chancellor of Justice and he has relied on his opinion on this draft. However, a few weeks ago, the Chancellor of Justice's opinion on the establishment of pharmacies was sent out for a long time and was not taken into account. I guess that's the way it was in day-to-day politics. But my question is based on your answer regarding marriage. You have stressed that this law does not provide for the registration of a marriage. When this law is passed, do you rule out registration of gender-neutral marriages as a next step? Would you support such a move when such a proposal comes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U51	Now, if I'm being completely honest, I don't see the problem either if same-sex marriages were allowed. That's my personal position. I know that the majority of people in Estonia currently do not support this position; Estonian society is not ready for this. I do not believe that this cohabitation law would in any way pave the way for it or hinder it. Whether or not the Cohabitation Act exists, the subject of admission to same-sex marriages will be discussed in Estonia. I don't know when. Let us look at the experiences of other countries. In Denmark, it took 23 years for partnership registration to allow same-sex marriages, only three in the Netherlands. But I don't see any causal link there that one would cause another. I have said before, but I can repeat that when I was preparing to become a lawyer, I learned at the university that legislation must reflect the reality of society. The real situation of Estonian society today is that same-sex marriages are not accepted. That's why we haven't put it in the bill. If Estonian society ever reaches the point that this phenomenon requires legal regulation and the people of Estonia are ready for it, it will be done. Maybe my eyes can't see it, but maybe they can.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U52	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U53	Dear waitress, My interest and attention are focused on the same issue that Liisa-Ly Pakosta referred to, i.e. the protection of children's rights. Did the Committee on Legal Affairs discuss such issues as the protection of children's rights? Do you think it is possible to further process the points that Liisa-Ly Pakosta referred to? Personally, I think it should be possible. I have several couples living in a common-law relationship. In my opinion, regulation of cohabitation could potentially ensure better protection of children's rights. But do you see that there is still room for further processing of Liisa-Ly Pakosta's proposals or other proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U54	Thank you. I'm sure it's possible. As has been said, the draft is at first reading, it can be changed in any direction and any good proposals are welcome. After all, Liisa did not point out that there were no rules on children's rights in this draft, but that I did not touch on them in my report. Maybe it was my fault. We have actually discussed this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. These rules are entirely in the draft. There are also rules that set out the form of communication between the registered partner and his or her non-biologic child when the partnership ends, etc. All of this is in the interest of the child having confidence and some relationship with these people, the parents he grows up with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It has been heard repeatedly here that the IRL is against this draft, while the IRL members support it. Does it seem so strange that people in the party are able to express their opinions? Isn't it allowed in other parties or in your home party that you bring it out like this? But the question is the cost of the bill. Cohabitation and termination documentation, software development, all of this requires an expense. How much could these costs be, have the calculations been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U56	I know there's been some kind of assessment. I don't know those sums by heart. But you're right, changing the registers and reprogramming will cost you a lot of money. They're not very big. As far as the multiplicity of views is concerned, of course it also exists in our party. I just brought you a quote from Eerik-Niles Kross in case you haven't noticed that your party vice-president thinks so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U57	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U58	Good waitress! I am certainly in favour of any kind of voluntary partnership, no matter what form and gender basis it takes. In this sense, the contrast that someone is in favour and someone against is artificial. Rather, the question is whether the state should start making someone happy by law. But the broader question is whether this cohabitation act contributes in any way to the survival of the Estonian people or other peoples, who also have problems with the birth rate. Have you thought about how this will contribute to our future, just in terms of survival?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U59	Thank you. I don't think the state can make anyone happy by law. But I think the state can make people unhappy by refraining from creating laws. As far as the sustainability and durability of the Estonian nation is concerned, this draft is probably, in fact, certainly not likely to change anything in this respect. But he makes the few Estonians who exist here on earth a little happier, at least some of those who are now unhappy because they have so far been offered no legal protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U60	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U61	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I, too, have signed to support this bill because I thought the arguments of the initiators were reasonable. I have to say that if the Estonian people have been taken away from very large economic pieces, as they say, society has remained very calm. But now I've been brainwashed from different sides, figuratively speaking, sometimes I've heard ugliness and, by the way, from both sides. I'm confused and frankly admitting that I don't know how to live anymore. I think there are other people in this hall who are confused. That is why I am asking whether it would suddenly be reasonable to take this issue to a wider area and to organise a referendum. Very many writers have wanted this issue to go to a public debate. I admit honestly and frankly that I'd like to jump out the window and escape right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U62	Honourable police, please make sure the windows are closed and there will be no physical damage! Please, good answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U63	Aivar, you'd help me go down in history if you did.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U64	That's not gonna happen! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U65	But I certainly wouldn't want it, and I'd stop it, so don't go that far! But now you're confused and you're in a referendum. There have been three referendums in Estonia at the time of regaining independence, and I will say this with a small concordance. One was on the issue of independence, the other was on the subject of the Constitution, either 1992 or 1993, and the third was on the subject of accession to the European Union. This bill, however, concerns the registration of a partnership. I do not think that this topic is even close to Estonia's entry into the European Union, the adoption of the Constitution or the restoration of independence. I do not think that this is the subject of a referendum. The people have chosen us here in the Riigikogu, and if we do our job responsibly, with our minds and hearts to help, we will be able to deal with this bill in one way or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U66	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I will continue the discussion that was initiated with the last question. You said nicely in your reply that the people have chosen us here in the Riigikogu. I looked at the parties' electoral promises that they shared three years ago, fiscal, social, family and other promises. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't remember us or your party discussing this, asking for the opinion of the people, taking on a 'party mandate'. Has this theme come to you now as a revelation, or are there other aspects here? Rather, I agree with Aivar Riisalu, saying that this could be a question of a referendum, because it changes the foundation of society. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U68	I do not know, frankly, what other parties have done or have not done in previous years on this subject. I have already said in my introductory presentation that the Ministry of Justice has been working on this issue since 2009 and has asked for a response from political parties and everyone else interested in it. I do not remember whether it was before or after the elections, that we support the creation of a gender-neutral law on cohabitation. I don't know what to say about the other parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U69	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U70	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As one of the initiators of the draft, I naturally support its objectives. It's a little annoying that we have to spend so much steam on such a basic thing right now. I'd like to do something first in the world, something cool, innovative. On this point, however, we linger long and long behind others. In fact, we all understand that it is not a question of individual paragraphs or paragraphs of this draft. The question is very simple whether we want to be part of a post-Soviet cultural space, of fears and hatred, or whether we want to be a Western, Scandinavian, tolerant society. But my question to you, who have you been more involved with this subject, is this. What is the link between people's tolerance and education levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U71	Thank you. I don't want to label anyone, so it's gonna sound stupid against this bill and smart for it. It's not like that. Studies on this subject have shown that men are more opposed than women. The level of education is that the lower the level of education, the more people feel reluctant about such things. There's also a difference between nations, that's what I was talking about. But you indicated that we wanted to get out of a post-Soviet society. I read out of your question the wish that I would quote an e-mail that came yesterday: 'I would be proud if Estonia, as the first post-communist state, would show its firm support for liberal values and ensure that every person has the opportunity to create a family that suits him and remain equal before the law. I myself have grown up, and I am living in a traditional family now, but I do not see the slightest danger to my way of life that the majority of standards will not be imposed on minorities. I wish you the strength to stand firm in your decision. Rein Raud. ' I don't know if that name tells you anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U72	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I too am one of the initiators and warm supporters of this bill. I sincerely believe that this will make our society considerably more open and better. I have argued with several people about this bill, and I have also read these letters that have come to us. One of the fundamental arguments put forward is that this bill goes against all the good that Christianity has brought into our world. However, the pope of Rome has said that he understands the need for states to legitimise civil partnerships. How do you comment on this statement in the light of the letter from our Church Fathers? Do you think maybe the light of the pope of Rome will shine upon our very atheist state and make him a little better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U74	I have seen this transformation process in Sweden, which I mentioned earlier. There, too, church organizations were at the beginning against such regulation, and later they changed their minds. A similar dispute was the case with female priests; in this case too, church organizations have changed their minds. If we go back in time, Martin Luther should, in fact, have a large part of us being Lutherans. At first he said that marriage shouldn't be a church issue at all, so he changed his position. Some time later, she married a nun. At the same time, he supported multiwifeism, which was a specific case, rather than a divorce. So you can't say there's some kind of Christian model that looks like a man and a woman, it's a family and that's it. It's not like that. Of course, you don't want to label it, but it's not right to have a back with Christianity and a Bible like it's some kind of hammer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U75	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your very clear answers at this time of day and in the debate on such a complex subject. Are you confirming this bill in view of the fact that children raised in same-sex families are protected in exactly the same way as children of different genders?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U77	Yes, I can assure you. I think that children need first and foremost love and a good environment in which to grow. In this respect, too, I dare say that such an idealized traditional family model does not always correspond to this idea, especially considering that a great many statements of support for this draft have come from women's shelters, non-profit organisations against domestic violence, etc. In the end, a child needs an environment where he is loved. It's not gender-dependent, I'm pretty sure. I am also quite convinced that those people who really want a child in their family appreciate this child perhaps more than those who have children very easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U78	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A little saddened by the question of a good colleague, Arto Asa. There was no so-called good debate environment, but I take the courage to say that there was a slightly tagging atmosphere. You also stated that you do not want to continue in this context. I actually like a good debate and like different opinions. It's normal, I think, in this room too, there's nothing weird about it. But I will come to myself with this bill with a question that has already been touched on here today. Paragraph 9 (2) deals with marriages concluded abroad. Am I right to understand that if Estonian same-sex marriages were to take place in a country where this is possible, then this marriage would have been automatically legalised in Estonia, too, according to this bill? Is this the point of this draft in a specific context?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U80	Thank you. As I said, in the context of this draft, Estonia recognises same-sex marriages concluded in accordance with the laws of their country of residence. Since same-sex marriages are not allowed in Estonia, this question falls away in this sense. If a foreign citizen has entered into a marriage in accordance with the laws of his home country, then, as I said, it is likely that the Estonian courts will already have to recognise such a marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U81	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I thank you for your thorough and sincere presentation and for the answers you have given us now. I also thank those people who have come here and have had to wait and listen to all the other interesting discussions, for the support you are giving us here! I am a great supporter of this bill, and I am also the initiator of it. I've been on the team that prepared the bill. I certainly hope that this draft will come to a final vote once and, after all, the law will also be passed. I believe that, regardless of nationality, language and sexual preference, we are all equal before the law, and we all deserve to be protected and recognised by the state. I don't have a question. You can't do everything at first reading, but I wanted to thank you. [[Interjection.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U83	Thank you very much. More questions for the waitress... Yes, Urmas Reinsalu, please! We could react a little faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U84	Thank you. I suspect you just quoted Allar Jõks's position, not Indrek Teder's. These views are presented at different times, in the light of a completely different legislative framework and situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U85	No further questions. Thank you very much, Valdo Randpere. For a co-report, please address the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Neeme Suur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am talking about the procedure that took place in the Commission. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft law 650 in four debates. The first debate took place on Monday 9 June, the second on Tuesday 10 June, the third on Thursday 12 June and the fourth on Monday 16 June. The first discussion was attended by Neeme Suur, Marko Pomerants, Ken-Marti Vaher, Peeter Võsa, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Imre Sooäär and Valdo Randpere. Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, and Susann Mikli, Adviser to the Department of Private Law, were invited. The Minister reported on the position of the Government of the Republic. At the second debate, on Tuesday 10 June, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Olga Sõtnik took part as an alternate member. Procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 June (5 votes for, 3 against and 1 abstention, 1 member of the Commission not taking part in the vote). Neeme the Great (5 votes for, 4 against and 1 abstention) was appointed rapporteur. When the first reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 September (5 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, 2 Commission members did not take part in the vote). A longer discussion took place during the Commission's third debate, Thursday 12 June. There were few members of the Committee on Legal Affairs this time, including Neeme Suur, Marko Pomerants, Jüri Morozov and Valdo Randpere, while there was a quorum. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, and Susann Mikli, Adviser to the same department, answered the questions at the time. The fourth treatment of the draft decision took place on Monday 16 June. There was no discussion at the time, but the Commission's position on the draft was adopted. A proposal was put forward to reject the draft at first reading. The Commission did not support this proposal. The votes were split in half: 5 for and 5 against. So much for dealing with the bill. Now I'm talking about the discussion that took place. At the first debate, on Monday, 9 June, the initiator Valdo Randpere presented the draft to us. There was the Minister of Justice who presented the position of the Government of the Republic, which, in a very brief summary, can be said to be supported by the Government. The Minister admitted that there was a lot of work to be done with the draft, 87 laws and 64 regulations needed to be revised, but confirmed that the Ministry of Justice had started reviewing the accompanying legislation and was prepared to contribute to the improvement of the draft in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Chamber of Notaries. There were a lot of questions. For example, they asked what the difference was between a partnership agreement and a marriage agreement. The originator explained that the difference is within the objectives of these types of contracts. The association agreement is intended to serve a specific purpose, and the partnership agreement regulates civil relations in a long-term permanent partnership. It was a question that, if the partnership agreement is a normal civil law contract, why, according to the draft, should it not be concluded while away, why must both parties be present? A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that this is a contract with a very wide-ranging impact that creates long-term relationships, including property relationships, mutual maintenance and maintenance obligations, etc. In such cases, it is appropriate to require or assume the presence of both parties. There was an interest in not concluding a partnership agreement with relatives. A representative of the Ministry of Justice explained that relations with relatives have already been governed by family law and other laws, which would be a cover for regulations that could create confusion. To avoid this, a partnership agreement with relatives is excluded. There was a question of how protection for the weaker party would develop. The initiators of the draft act explained the main areas of regulation and the fact that protection of the weaker party does not automatically arise according to the draft act, but instead comes from the creation of a new form of contract which provides an alternative way of formalising the relationship between them. It requires a declaration of will. So there will be no automatic protection of the weaker party under the partnership agreement. The question was also about who initiated the draft. From the last waitress's answers, we heard it. It was a long story. It was pointed out that according to § 4 of the bill, the notary has an obligation to establish where the person actually lives. They asked whether such an obligation was reasonable and whether it could be done at all. The answer of the representatives of the Ministry of Justice was that notaries still have a duty to establish their actual place of residence in several proceedings. This is "conventional practice," and this is nothing special. It should be noted, of course, that the House of Notaries and the Ministry of the Interior were of the opinion that the residence of a person in the population register should be taken into account rather than his actual residence. There was also the question of the difference between the legal knowledge needed to conclude a partnership agreement or a partnership agreement with a notary. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that it is easier to conclude a partnership agreement than a partnership agreement. The representative of the initiators of the draft act explained that the partnership agreement is a package of different rights and obligations and is therefore easier to conclude. For example, the association agreement does not establish successions or mutual maintenance relationships; the partnership agreement is a simplified package of different legal relationships that accompany a long-term partnership. There was also the question of what is the prognosis of the effects of the draft, the expected impact, for example, on people living in a common-law relationship. The initiators' response was that it was difficult to predict the effects in Estonia, but in Sweden, for example, the decrease in the number of regular marriages has stopped. During the Monday debate, the members of the Commission found that the time for asking and answering questions was short. It was requested to continue the debate at the Thursday session, and so was the case. There was no substantive debate during the Tuesday debate, the circumstances of the draft procedure were discussed. It was clarified that procedural decisions had to be taken in any event. The procedural decisions relating to the rapporteur on the draft were taken, the first reading in plenary and the deadline for the submission of amendments should the first reading be closed. It was decided that the debate would take place on Thursday. There was a debate on Thursday. Indrek Niklus and Susann Mikli from the Ministry of Justice and Marko Pomerants, Neeme Suur, Valdo Randpere and Jüri Morozov from the Legal Affairs Committee were present. A number of questions were also asked back then. They asked if child protection would arise in the event of adoption under § 16. The answer of the representative of the Ministry of Justice was that there would be an additional right and also an additional right for the partners. Family life is an argument for adoption. Account will be taken of the relationship with the child, there will be the possibility to apply for joint custody and the right to communicate. The question was whether the partners could have the opportunity to submit a joint income tax return. This question received a positive answer so that it could be. Reference was made to the judgments of the European Court of Justice, according to which the partnership should not be discriminatory in relation to the benefits laid down by the State in relation to the matrimonial relationship. Statistics were asked about how many people this bill actually covers. Statistics show that 548286 people live in Estonia in partnership with a partner, including 378026 people in partnership with a legal spouse, whereas 169832 people live in a common-law relationship. This is where they asked if there were 170000 people or a couple. That's 170,000 people after all. There are 428 people living in a common-law relationship whose partner is of the same sex. These are the data from the last census. It was a question of what legal relationships the law on partnership then covers as a package. The answer was that the Cohabitation Act includes mutual due diligence, assistance and maintenance obligations, precludes marriage during the term of the contract, confers a joint and several right on the partners and gives them joint and several liability in the transactions, in certain cases gives them responsibility for the obligations assumed by the other partner, gives them the concept of common housing, gives the partner the right to communicate with the child and the right to adopt, gives him the right to inherit and gives him the opportunity to agree on property relationships. It was also a question of the similarities and differences between life and marriage. As an example, minors can get married, and minors cannot sign a partnership agreement. Once again, questions were asked about the differences between the partnership agreement and the partnership agreement. It was reiterated that the partnership agreement is a joint operation towards a common goal, but not a civil relationship arising in a long-term partnership. It was discussed whether proof of a factual cohabitation could in any way be stated in the draft or how the status of a factual cohabitation could be stated in family law. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice explained that there are several problems. First of all, it is not possible for third parties to know about the actual partnership, i.e. it is not visible to third parties, without proof being given to third parties in specific cases. Another problem is that the beginning and end of a factual partnership are very difficult to explain and prove. Thirdly, taking into account the reality of living together can violate people's private autonomy. If people want to live without registering a relationship, the so-called third party should not decide whether or not there was a partnership. It's still a two-man decision. So much for discussion. There was no discussion on Monday, June 16. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice were invited, but since it was proposed not to involve them in the debate, because it was thought that the questioning in the Commission would not take us forward, the representatives of the Ministry did not come to the meeting on Monday. There was a vote on the Commission's position. The Commission's position not to support the proposal to withdraw the draft means that the Commission did not take a clear position. According to the comments of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Commission's position in this case is considered rather favourable, but in fact we did not reach such an understanding in the Commission. We understood that the opinions were split in half. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U87	Honourable waitress! I, too, call for a polite cultural debate on these issues, accepting different views, people's private lives and beliefs, including religious beliefs. But, Honourable Waitress, you referred to the Chancellor of Justice's views as if they were also in conflict with the Constitution. I have at my disposal the official position of the Chancellor of Justice: 'At this time neither the Constitution, the international law forming part of the Estonian legal order nor the European Union's legal provisions give homosexual couples any right to require the regulation of a partnership. Enabling the same-sex partnership is a matter of national political decision-making that the Chancellor of Justice cannot interfere with. ' How do you comment on the Chancellor of Justice's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U88	Thank you, Kalev! Absolutely not. I have already said that it is certainly not a comprehensive draft that can or would try to regulate all aspects of life, but it regulates one area of our lives. Based on analyses, there are real legal problems in this area that need to be regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U89	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U90	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U91	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U92	Thank you. Good Valdo! I think this is a good draft, and that is why I have given it a support signature. I also think that if the Chancellor of Justice has assessed a situation in which the state has not created a legal framework for regulating permanent cohabitation for persons of the same sex as contrary to the Constitution, it is the duty of the Riigikogu to resolve this problem. I hope that today we will be able to deal with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 27 in order to eliminate another situation that is incompatible with the Constitution. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, how do you assess the situation we are in now? The Chancellor of Justice has assessed that this is an unconstitutional situation. At the same time, we have a large number of e-mails saying that the first reading of this draft and the adoption of the draft as a law could be contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U93	Thank you, good Kalle! I'm glad you asked that question. In the past, I have also said here that, in my opinion, it is not the right of the members of the Riigikogu, but the obligation to bring our laws into line with the Constitution. I think those people who have turned to us and have indicated that we are breaking the Constitution by discussing this draft here are wrong. I also said in my introductory speech that this draft does not really take anything away from anyone. Speaking of the reactions we have received, I brought along some letters to describe the letters that have come into our mailboxes. I take the liberty of reading any of them. I was surprised, for example, when a Russian person wrote me a negative e-mail on the cohabitation law. I was not so surprised that it was negative, but that it started with the e-mail sentence 'Why do you support the interests of minorities and machinations in the Riigikogu? '. The Russian person asks why I support the interests of minorities and machinations in the Riigikogu! This bill has also received an international response. An interested person from Sweden sent us a letter, I don't know his nationality, but this letter reads: 'Hello, Riigikogu! I have now lived in Sweden for a long time, and I have also watched the Estonian media and Delfi. Estonia has grown and moved on, both in the economy and in society. There is much more liberality and freedom, as there is in Sweden. Open education and homosexuality are popular in Estonia. Unfortunately, it's not much good, you can see it on every corner. Young people are arrogant and no longer obey. When the church lawd gay mating here, it caused a lot of tension, and there were many situations of violence. Some people died, too. The gay issue has just gotten a lot of bad going in this society, and some young and old are very upset about it. For many, relationships suffer from this. I write that I do not want to see this situation in Estonia. That's not good. It used to be much better, there was less liberality and more times. Homos have also become very aggressive, as if a race problem were. Same old marriage isn't the right thing. I still love Estonia and wish you the best. Gang level, Estland! " But I've also gotten sympathetic for us. For example, from two Estonian women who wrote a long heartfelt letter, which they concluded: 'We do not make any propaganda, we do not go to parade anywhere, we do not endanger the lives of any heterosexual family, we are not perverts or child molesters. We are ordinary young Estonian women who want to live their family life in peace and allow their children a happy childhood and the best future. Please let us do this! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U94	Was thank you at the end of the letter, or did it mark the end of the answer? Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, First of all, a personal explanation. I'm in a Christian marriage, so I'm in a camp, and I have some knowledge of church history. The beliefs of the Christian Church have changed considerably over time, such as the attitude towards Jews, the use of Latin or the use of national language in the church, the role of women in society, as well as the role of nonmarital children. Regrettably, millions of people have died over the centuries because of different beliefs. Do you think it is reasonable to hope that this law will be able to satisfy the different religious approaches of all citizens and eliminate fears?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U96	Good questioner, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U97	Thank you, good manager. I will continue on the same subject. I ask for an apology from the stenographists in advance, but I quote: 'Asshole geologists, two-headed and five-legged calves, look at the consequences that homosexuals, lesbians and other mockers, perverts can have. Zoophiles, necrophils, pedophiles etc., etc., will be coming soon. ' These are not net comments; these are quotations from the Riigikogu's extensive e-mail campaign inspired by a well-known source. From a source that has so far not revealed its foreign donors. Of course, we have freedom of expression, and I don't think you have a good answer to my question, but I'm still asking. Where do these horrible obscene fears come from? Why are we in a situation where evil, hatred, hatred, and the thought of 'Libahund' from Tiina's times have taken us to drown in letters instead of a normal cultural debate with a voter, that all those who are different should be burned at the stake? Could this bill bring about a change here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U98	Thank you. I don't have a good answer for where this evil comes from. In preparing to defend this draft, I read a recently published study comparing countries with social progress. Estonia was 19th in the overall population of 132 countries in this study, which I think is a very cool place. Three places ahead of us were the United States, and immediately after us were France and Spain. By the way, Russia was in the 80th place. I'm just saying this so you can just have the little hours we were there. The 19th place is really awesome. The worst score we had was in the tolerance category where we were in the 60th. There were ten places ahead of us in Mongolia; Albania and Belarus were just behind us. This study shows that neither such letters are a figment of fantasy. This is our society today. I hope that this bill and the debate that goes around it will make us a little more friendly and tolerant, that in the end, some who have not yet understood will understand that someone else has a different preference. I grew up in Soviet times when homosexuality was a criminal offence. After all, it did not reduce the number of such people, but it simply made many people either a criminal or unhappy. I see people in this hall today who believe in the way it seems that homosexuals are gay because they are being bullied personally, or that homosexual people have just felt that today they want to be gay. It's not like that, it's not their choice, it's their state. To discriminate against someone because he's different, I think it's so wrong, stupid and narrow-minded as it can be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U99	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U100	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I have a question about honesty and the authorship of this bill. In your introductory speech, you referred to the fact that there was an intergroup working group in the Riigikogu that worked with the Ministry of Justice on this draft. On March 19, I remember, Imre Sooäär went to collect supporting signatures on this bill. The draft itself reached the Riigikogu on a large Thursday. A few days after Imre went to collect the signatures, Imre spoke in the media about the fact that this bill was not yet ready, but would be ready in a few weeks, even though he had already collected the signatures for support. Unfortunately, I do not know when this working group met and when its meetings took place. Were you a member of this task force? Do you know if it was ever called together? When invited, who and when did it come together and on the basis of which members of the Riigikogu were elected?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U101	Thank you. I can answer you completely honestly, as I will answer all the questions. I was not a member of this task force. In retrospect, I can say that I even knew that there was a task force like this. Unfortunately, I wasn't invited there, although I would have been happy to go. I know that our party, Rait Maruse and Imre Sooäär, participated there. I know your party was a member of this task force, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, but I don't know any other members. I have no idea who was still there. Olga's Soldier was there, they're telling me about the hall, Andres Anvelt too. You got an honest answer, but not even from me, but just through my mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U102	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U103	Thank you. Since my name was mentioned, I will first ask a reply and then ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U104	There is no negotiating round at this time. There's no way to make a reply. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U105	Okay, then I ask, and then I have a line. I have really tried to contribute to ensuring that the situation of children is best protected, regardless of the type of family. I am deeply embarrassed about the hate campaign that has now started in Estonian society. I apologize to all those who have felt touched by it! When I was in favour of cutting off the first reading of the draft preschool law, no one came to the conclusion that I was a childphobe or that I had a sick attitude towards kindergartens. Just in case, I'm not a childphobe or a sick attitude toward kindergartens, either. Unfortunately, with the draft we are discussing, you did not mention children at all in your speech. Do you think it's okay that we're talking about a bill about family life, but not about the most important, or children?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U106	Thank you, Liisa-Ly! I can say, as an introduction, that I respect you most of all about those in this Riigikogu, precisely because you always stand up for children's rights. I never doubt what your motives are in this regard. I didn't name the children for two reasons. Firstly, time is relatively limited here and children's subject has been excluded from this campaign. It hasn't been attacked either, so I didn't need to protect anything there. Secondly, Estonian laws have in fact been in a very, very protective position for children. Children's interests are always at the forefront, no matter what the law is. Even now, if there is no possibility of registering a partnership, children's rights are well protected under Estonian law. I'm sure they could be better protected, but this isn't an area that's somehow left behind or dragged behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U107	Kalev Kallemets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U108	Good manager! Good bill counsel! Paragraph 3 states that the partnership agreement is concluded in a notarised form. As you know, at least I hope you know, you can still get married at the notary. Perhaps it would not make sense to talk here about heteromarriage or forms of partnership, but the law could clearly and unambiguously state that there is a partnership agreement between couples of the same sex. Then maybe there'll be a lot of disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U109	Thank you. I can't imagine how a lot of disputes can be canceled while you're sitting in this room. The proposal is a good idea in itself, but I will ask against the rules of courtesy how you imagine it. We've got 170,000 couples living together who haven't filed for marriage. Then there are a few hundred pairs of the same sex. One possibility is that we are going to draft a bill that only applies to heterosexuals, and say that we do not have the same-sex people, or that we do not allow them to live by the rules that apply to others. So we act like ostriches, hide our heads in the sand, and deny that homosexual people and couples exist. By the way, the rules are that I answer now and you listen. When you think about ostriches, they have another interesting quality: their brains are smaller than their eyes. Basically, they don't understand everything they see. On the other hand, can you imagine that we're going to do one bill only for the same-sex, the couple hundred people, and tell the heterosexuals whether to marry or see for themselves, how can they lick the pan? Can you imagine this situation? Why would we write in any differences here? I don't think so. Since you have no right to speak, I thank you for asking me a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U110	In the Riigikogu hall it is customary to have one manager at a time. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned Aivar Riisalu in connection with one of the events earlier. You raised your child together at some stage of your life. Did you miss not being able to register your life together at that time? Should Aivar Riisalu be harmed in any way now because the child he raised with you has no responsibility for him, the child only has them against you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U112	That was such a complicated question. I didn't realize who I should have signed up with. I was already living with my present husband at the time. To start registering a partnership with a divorced spouse, I have never thought of this before. But no, we don't see any problem here, to be honest. I get along well with Aivari, even though it may not always look that way. My baby and I are both getting along. I also get along with Aivar's child, who is somehow related to me. That's the way life is. Today, such a beautiful, utopian family model does not really work, that a man and a woman meet, that they do not live together before, but that they immediately get married and that they are only separated by death. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. I'd be very happy if it worked. That's not the way it is, that's why we need this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U113	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U114	Thank you. Good waitress! In the draft law, you have given notaries the task of registering partnerships, but the House of Notaries considers that the draft does not fulfil its main alleged purpose, because the property relationships between couples living in a factual partnership, but not registered, do not change anything. The problems identified in the explanatory memorandum and the Chancellor of Justice remain the same. However, the regulation fulfils its second objective: to give couples of the same sex the possibility to register a partnership in a way that is visible to third parties. In the opinion of the Chamber of Notaries, the draft gives the impression that giving couples of the same sex the possibility to regulate their cohabitation would be the main objective of the law, which is to hide behind the legal problems arising from the factual cohabitation of couples of different sexes, and this is not in line with good legislative practice. Why did you not make a draft that would be fair, transparent and in line with good legislative practice? Why didn't you propose legitimizing same-sex marriages? What are you doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U115	I have already been asked the same question once, and I have also assessed the position of the Chamber of Notaries. The place where this page ends, which you gladly quoted, is actually very constructive and relevant, but before that, I think they made a political statement that remains on their conscience. I cannot take very seriously the political statements made by the Chamber of Notaries, but their substantive comments are either taken into account or are still being worked on. I believe this bill will be very good, and you too, Valmar, when it suddenly arrives at third reading in the autumn, you will vote for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U116	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U117	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! At times, when you're in this hall, it's like you're in the theater and there's a show going on. The thing that bothers me most is that, although people talk about tolerance and the diversity of opinions, they try to impose a certain vision and get the impression that everyone who thinks differently is somehow retarded or not suited to society. It was also disturbing that the letter against the Cohabitation Act was written here with a taunting voice, but the letter supporting this law was read out with a sweet voice. It doesn't fit here. But here's the question. If the allegedly 170,000 couples who have not married look forward to this law of cohabitation, has there been research on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U118	First of all, I'm glad to know that you appreciate my performance here. Thank you. As far as these 170000 couples are concerned, there is no such study among them as to whether they would immediately be ready to register their partnership. Studies have been carried out on how people view the registration of a cohabitation and the registration of a cohabitation of same-sex people. I can say that the number of common-law marriages, the number of children born out of wedlock, as well as the number of people who are tolerant and consider that there is a need to regulate these relationships legally, is growing very, very fast. According to the TSN Emor study, the number of these tolerant people doubled between 2006 and 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U119	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When you answered my first question, you basically admitted that the technical quality of the draft is below the records and that, in order for it to become something, major changes must be made. You did not answer my question to this side of the question whether you are prepared to abandon the concept of half-marriage on which this matter has been structured since the title, and to focus, above all, on regulating property relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U120	You asked so many questions that I honestly no longer remember what you asked for exactly. What was the first thing you...?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U121	I'm sorry, but such a discussion doesn't provide for our home and work procedures. When the answer is over, we will move on to the next question. Can't bounce the ball.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U122	I'm really gonna keep talking. You asked me three things, I don't remember them anymore. Oh, you were sorry it was discussed at night. I should have thought about that sooner, when you were stalling here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U123	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U124	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U125	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U126	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U127	Thank you. I would first of all like to point out that as much evil-tagging intolerance as your previous speaker has presented to us today, I have not heard in this Chamber for a long time. He was the opposite of the minister hunter or Kruus in front of us today; they gave meaningful and tolerant answers. I am therefore happy to ask you my second question, because it seems that this debate is now going to take place in a completely different way. You yourself referred to a problem that was examined in the Commission that it was not possible to conclude this agreement with close relatives, such as brothers and sisters. You said that since these relationships were already regulated in the legal area, you'd be over-shadowed. However, this bill also precludes the conclusion of a contract when one of these siblings has lost that legal relationship due to adoption. That's where my question comes from. If one of these persons is adopted, there is no legal link between the biological siblings. Then why is there a ban?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U128	Thank you. In the event of adoption, a new relationship between the child and the parent arises. This means that a person's legal relationship is new to a child and parent. If one of the siblings is adopted and the other is not, could they then conclude a partnership agreement with each other? It is a very detailed nuance when one brother and sister are adopted and no longer has a "sister-brother" relationship. I hope I understand the question correctly. In theory, there could also be a contractual relationship, but practically that would probably mean ambiguity. The whole point where it is said that partnerships should not be concluded between close relatives is that we should not confuse existing relations with overregulation. This also concerns this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U129	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U130	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, Several colleagues, starting with their question, said that this was a very good draft. It was also pointed out that whoever dares to resist or to suggest otherwise is a post-soft, whatever that means. But the Minister of the Interior has sent a long, 18-point list of shortcomings and suggestions contained in this bill. Let me give you an example of an inquiry. Maybe I'm wrong, but I realized that if a child becomes an orphan, but his biological parent had a partner, then all the property goes to the partner as an inheritance. This partner does not even have the obligation to provide for the child in the future. Did the Commission discuss the lack of children's rights or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U131	The Commission acknowledged that children's rights were primarily exercised through the relationship between parents and children. Family law, succession law and other legislation govern the relationship between the child and the parent. If the biological parent of the child dies, the child is in any case the heir. If the child lives in a cohabiting family and dies as his or her non-biologic parent, he or she is the he or she's the he or she's the he or she's the he or she's the he or she's the he or she's. The protection of the child's right in these cases arises from the relationship between the child and the parent. Of course, it must be taken into account that the right to seek custody and adopt a child arises within the family between the partners, where the relationship with the child is taken into account as an additional argument. Then the responsibilities between us will be easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U132	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U133	Thank you. It has been repeatedly emphasised here today that this is a very important, important and complex issue. This was also proved by Eiki Nestor in his speech, who called for tolerance, but with the last sentence he himself made a mistake in practice. I therefore ask for a ten-minute break to be able to think about theory and practice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U134	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. You're a bit of a funny guy, I got that impression from watching the news show on Sunday. You are the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you are processing this bill, but you are saying that the letters sent to you by citizens prevent you from reading to us. If these aren't working papers, what are they? My question, however, is of a different nature. Paragraph 1 (1) states that two natural persons may enter into a partnership agreement, at least one of whom is resident in Estonia. Many lawyers specialising in international law have referred to a problem that arose after the adoption of a similar law in several southern European countries. Under this law, people from third countries were introduced there. A specific business was made.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U135	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U136	Did you discuss this threat in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U137	This is a threat that we did not have in the debate in the Commission in particular. This issue was not raised by the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U138	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U139	Thank you, Madam President. Neeme! In order to understand that Estonia is indeed the most atheistic country in the European Union, there is no need to look at Eurostat data. It's enough to hear the crap that Randper's got out of his mouth about Jesus Christ and Mary Magdalene's common-law relationship. It is clear that a man has never opened a Bible in his life. However, if we look at Eurostat data, we really do think that about 40% of people believe in it. That is, however, a fairly large number. We all received the address of the Estonian Council of Churches, the last row of which expresses the wish to take part in the debate of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I understood that they were not invited to take part in the debate. If so, why? This is one of the most authoritative organisations in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U140	Thank you. As you can see, the first reading of the bill is only now, on the seventh working week. This delay was primarily caused by the fact that we waited for a very long time for the position of the Government of the Republic. The government's position is known to arise by asking for opinions from ministries; the Ministry of Justice will consolidate this opinion and forward it. I would have been delighted if we had been able to come to the hall with our first reading earlier. Unfortunately, we also had debates in the Commission on whether to come to first reading with this draft at all and whether it would be possible to avoid reaching the hall of this bill. Finally, we learned that no, we can't avoid it, the law simply requires us to do so. I would have been delighted if it had been possible to hold wider discussions before the first reading. But at the moment, when the first reading is closed, there really is a lot of time to make amendments until 12 September, and during that time there are also plans to hold public debates where the parties can participate and express their opinions. As far as the Christian view of the world is concerned, I believe that tolerance and reconciliation are a very important part of the Christian outlook, especially as regards the spirit of the new will. To those who point their finger at the list of commands in the book of Leviticus, I simply recommend that we deepen Jesus'teaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U141	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I attach great importance to and respect the fundamental rights enshrined in our constitution. I therefore hope that one day this bill, perhaps in a somewhat complicated way, will arrive at the final vote. My question concerns the final vote. I know that there have also been disputes as to whether the final vote should require a majority of the votes cast or a majority of the votes cast. Has this argument been settled? Is this the so-called '51 votes' law, or is it enough to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U143	Thank you. That was what the Commission was talking about. The situation is such that the current form is likely to be the law of 51 votes. This is due in particular to the fact that the law also includes court rules. However, the Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that the fragmentation of court rules between different laws is not reasonable, but it would be reasonable to include them in the basic law, i.e. the relevant court law, such as the Code of Civil Procedure. If a more precise legal analysis reveals that it is reasonable to withdraw the points concerning the rules of legal proceedings from the draft, it is not the law of 51 votes. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U144	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear man Neeme! How normal do you think of the situation where the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs have been threatened with anal rape during the procedure of the draft law, the vote on the premises of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been carried out by persons who are not at all concerned by Imre Sooäär, the materials of the closed session have been dripped into the press, and we are unable to find out in any way who has done this? Is this really what characterises democratic processes in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U146	Thank you, dear man! [[Laughter.]] No, what has been happening is certainly not a good characteristic of democratic processes. Some of the things listed were "work errors," for example when Imre Sooäär invaded the premises of the Commission. But when it comes to unethical behaviour towards their fellow speakers, for example, when someone makes personal recordings at a hearing, it is good practice that fellow interviewers should be aware of the recording, even if they are sitting at a table in the café of the Riigikogu. That's just good practice. What has been happening around this procedure is quite a reflection of what exists in society. A certain group is very vocal against the bill and a certain group is vocal in favour of the bill. This confrontation between advocates and opponents is also transferred to the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U147	Good waitress! I very much want to hope that this law will make Estonia's life better and will be aimed at the future. That's why I'm asking. On the basis of your report, I came to understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs knowingly left matters concerning children's rights unregulated within the framework of this law, saying that all of this is already sufficiently regulated by family law and other laws. Is there a deeper reason for such a political choice that this law could and should only regulate lifestyle issues, but should not address children's rights, or did it just develop like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U148	Thank you. In fact, this law does not regulate life - style issues but governs civil relations between partners. The fact that children's rights or obligations are less represented in it means, first of all, that the rights and obligations of children are quite well regulated in the family law, for example, which is not invalid for partners. It has not been a political choice that they are less regulated in the Cohabitation Act. If, in the course of this debate, it turns out that there are certain places that are special or create exceptions to the family law for children, they should definitely be reflected in the law. This has not been a political choice. This is a matter of the natural process of further development of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U149	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerants, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U150	Thanks! I am pleased that Priit Toobal asked this question of 51 votes. I think you just forgot about the subject. I don't see any maliciousness here. But the initiator's representative said that this is a relatively minor issue which does not deserve a wider response at all when there is talk of a referendum or whatever. What is your personal opinion, based on the assurance that this is a very good and very necessary law? Could this law still require 51 votes for adoption be obligatory in order to confirm that this is really so well and that there is no need to start doing any legal tricks? By taking advantage of your time and knowing how thorough you are, I also ask you if you can name at least ten laws out of the 80 that should be amended because of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U151	Thank you. I'll start at the back. With ten laws, I'm probably gonna be in trouble. But if you really want, I'll find a letter from the Ministry of the Interior or the House of Notaries. For example, notarial law, proof law, notary fee law, family law, succession law, matrimonial property register law, population register law, civil status proceedings law, state fee law. These were set out in the opinion of the Chamber of Notaries. They've really done a lot of work. As the Minister of Justice has also said, the House of Notaries must be involved in improving the draft in good time and immediately. Thank you so much! As far as legal tricks are concerned, we will certainly avoid them in this matter and the law will be as good as possible, on the basis of good legislative principles. This means that if there is still a view that, for example, the provisions on court rules should be included in the laws of the court proceedings, they must also be written there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U152	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U153	Thank you. Valdo Randpere began his long tract, emphasising that this law was made, based on the interests of either 170000 families or citizens, I did not understand. [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Pere, pere!'???]] In particular, it's in their best interests. I was thinking about those letters. I always quickly erased those that were against this bill, but for the sake of interest, I read those that were in favour. There were fewer, so it was good to read them. There were none of these letters, at least from my memory, supporting letters from a straight couple. I didn't find any straight concerns in those letters. I have a problem and a question about who you think is the engine of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U154	Thank you. I too read to us and read carefully both against the bill and those in favour of us. I noticed a lot of heterocouples for us. Maybe we just read different for us, there were a lot of them. But as for the law engine, I'm not very good at commenting. I have also heard quite a lot of information about how the law has developed since 2009, when the Ministry of Justice's analysis was carried out, and so on. It seems that this process has been carried out by quite a number of Ministers of Justice and the inter-party working group of the Riigikogu. I'm allegorically saying that the fact that this lion came from is that I'm not really getting any closer, but I'm interested in where this lion goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U155	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U156	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs! In answer to Peter Võsa's question, you said there was a mistake at the committee. But you started work on 9 June, and there were four sessions in more or less a week. This is a draft that has been made very quickly. Aren't you afraid that other mistakes may come out later, which is why this bill doesn't go out of the grand hall of the Riigikogu the way it should go?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U157	Thank you. Good question. This mistake of work was a great lesson for me, too, as chairman of the committee. I understood that the mandate of the replacement must be carefully checked and that it must be checked whether a replacement is even possible. I'm probably gonna have to shake ashes on myself as committee chairman, but it's good if you make mistakes right from the start, you can avoid them afterwards. As far as the short period of proceedings is concerned, it was more than a week, but it is true that the time for discussions was short. This short period of time before the first reading can be compensated in a very long time between the first and the second reading. I very much hope that the first reading of this bill will be completed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U158	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Palts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U159	Ten minutes of recess so we can think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U160	I will clarify the point of my question: I meant not just letters from heterosexuals but letters from heterosexuals about their personal concerns. Gay wrote a lot about their personal concerns, but straight people didn't. It turns out that these 170000 did not have this kind of personal concern, many of which supported the draft law. I therefore argue that the presentation of the law to the public and the so-called sources of concern are not proportionate. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U161	Thank you. I don't agree. I remember at least a couple of letters talking about a particular problem and talking about this law that would help a straight couple to explain their relationship. When we talk about what the target group of the law is, we know that we have approximately 170000 people in common-law relationships, not 170000 couples, but people in common-law relationships of the same sex, I just read the statistics, about 200. This difference is so great that even if only 1% of these heterocouples find something useful in this draft, the number of couples of the same sex exceeds the number of couples of the same sex several and several times anyway. In any case, the target group is people who live in a free partnership, whether they are of the same sex or of different sexes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U162	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U163	Thank you. Dear waitress, I ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, about the quality of this draft. We have been talking for hours about this 'value' issue. Valdo Randpere may have opened up the subject too controversially. But I realized that the Ministry of Justice has made its initial assessment of this bill that it needs very serious legal work. In view of the quality of this draft, do you consider it possible to proceed with it at all, regardless of what its content is, or does it require a fundamental overhaul of the entire draft? There are at least 17 points in this bull, but there are other legal issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U164	Thank you. It is certainly possible to proceed with this draft. There is unlikely to be a fundamental change, but an analysis of the accompanying or additional legislation needs to be carried out. During the first visit, the Minister of Justice confirmed that they are ready to do this work in cooperation with other ministries. In what condition this law reaches before the second reading, we can be sure of that if we leave it in the process. People can do their job, and then we can assess the situation before we read the second one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U165	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U166	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think people's rights must be protected. We have 170,000 common-law couples. There have certainly been many problems in practice when the weaker party of a factual partnership is left without the protection of the law in force. For example, if the house is in the name of one party, but the other party has also paid the payments. If, then, after a long-term relationship has ended, there is an unfair situation in general. These people living in a factual partnership have not entered into a marriage because at least one party has not wished for it. It has been pointed out here that this law should protect these 170,000 couples living in a factual partnership. How does this law protect those couples living in a factual partnership who do not intend to enter into a partnership agreement? How does he protect the weaker side?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U167	Thank you. The Commission's discussions mentioned this issue, as I mentioned. It was said that in preparing the analysis of the free partnership at the Ministry of Justice, different options were being considered to make the free partnership stronger. One option was registration-based, one contract-based and one presumption-based. This free cohabitation we are talking about is a prerequisite. As I said before, there are quite a number of problems with the assumption-based approach. Currently, a mixed option has been chosen, i.e. a mixed contractual and registration approach. That requires a declaration of will. In order for the partnership to become visible to third parties in legal relations, both partners must express their will and conclude a contract. When it comes to how this law protects people who are factually, or presumably, living together, it does not protect them at present. To this end, we need to deal separately with the topic of factual cohabitation. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice also stated that this issue needs to be addressed. They were completely in agreement with this, and the members of the Commission also agreed. We are currently working on a draft law amending the Family Law initiated by the IRL in the Commission. I hope that the procedure for the draft law on partnership will continue in the autumn, and I also think that the procedure for the draft law amending the law on family law should continue in the autumn. Then we can see what happens next. Very many problems have been identified in relation to the reality of living together. For example, some time setting. The draft IRL proposed that, if ten years had been in a factual partnership, the partner in fact would have the right to claim maintenance obligations after the end of the factual partnership. How do we begin to consider when this life together began? From the moment the students started sharing a common dormitory or after they had shared it for several years or when they moved to a private apartment? It is such a broad concept that it is likely to have problems. However, as stated in the Commission and acknowledged by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the topic of factual cohabitation is worth discussing and discussing further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U168	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Looking at how well-balanced, culturally, democratically respectful of the debate, respectful of the opinions of the various parties you have stood before us here today, I would first of all like to say that it is an honour to be in the same room with you and to see how such a passionate and often artificially passionate subject can also be discussed in a completely calm and sober way. I very much hope that this debate will go more and more into those frames that you have shown us politely. But my question to you is this. You haven't been able to express your personal opinion. You have been asked one way or the other whether this process has been democratic, polite, etc. But how do you want this process to continue here in the Riigikogu and in society in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U170	Are we extending the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U171	Yeah. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U172	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U173	One of them has already been mentioned in the letter of ten churches operating in Estonia, signed by the church leaders. It finds that protecting family and marriage is both a natural and a constitutional task. Church leaders are of the opinion that the Cohabitation Act does not contribute to the value of family and marriage, and they do not consider it appropriate to rename marriage as an unjustified partnership. The church leaders also consider that the adoption of the Cohabitation Act does not seek to increase democracy or the happiness of as many people as possible, and point out that the adoption of the Cohabitation Act may pose a serious security risk. They also consider that, following the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, adoptable children of same sex couples may lose natural ties with their own parents of different sexes. The church leaders agree that a common-law relationship, including between same-sex families, can be regulated under the Law of Obligations Act by means of a partnership agreement and other private contracts. It turned out from the previous debate that the church leaders had not been able to express their position in the Commission in person. I hope that they will be given this opportunity before they read the second draft. The second letter I want to talk about was from the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations. This round table brings together several dozen women's organisations. They write that they have already stressed the need to ensure legal protection and a sense of security for families who do not wish or who are unable to register their cohabitation under the current family law since the end of the last decade. Over the years, they have discussed this issue repeatedly. Their view has been that couples of different sexes, as well as children of the same sex, should be treated equally. They supported the concept of the law on gender-neutral cohabitation developed in 2012 and presented their proposals in the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice. They recognise the initiative of the members of the Riigikogu who submitted the draft Cohabitation Act this spring to Parliament's proceedings, and they regret that the current draft does not regulate the factual cohabitation, but they hope that the draft will be completed in the course of further proceedings. They very much hope that, after today's vote in the Riigikogu, the modern humanist outlook on life and the procedure of the bill on partnership can continue. I hope that this debate will not simply end here by saying that, because we are afraid of the steps that may be taken in the next decade or in the longer term, we will not dare to open up this issue at all. If we voted on the draft at first reading, it would certainly express this fear. Thank you for your attention. I repeat that the members of the Centre Party will vote exactly as their guts tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U174	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations. As a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union or a request to reject the draft law on partnership at first reading has been received by the Board of the Riigikogu, we must vote through it. Let's get ready for the vote. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U175	Thank you. Yeah, personal opinion hasn't really been asked so far. First of all, I believe that this bill should definitely remain in the process. Leaving this procedure would allow this debate to continue and would make all this much clearer for members of the Riigikogu who are in favour of, not in favour of, but also indecisive. Keeping the topic in Riigikogu proceedings also ensures that all the authorities involved do their job and assist the Riigikogu in the processing of this draft. So first, I hope the bill stays in the process. Secondly, I hope that this law will also be passed. I am convinced that Estonia needs a cohabitation act so that people who live in a free partnership can use the country's stronger protection to regulate civil relations between them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U176	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U177	Mr President, I can get carried away, so I would ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U178	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, As you have noted, there may be fewer questions if a subject has been discussed a lot. Looking at the wide-ranging response that this bill has produced, I think the easiest thing to do is with people who I think it would be the right thing to say here are older men, like me, though, that it is such a Soviet army sergeant syndrome. I'm sorry, I think there might be sergeants like that in other armies! In their case, it was characteristic that there was no difference between what they were told. Whether the flower, butterfly, sun, sea, wind, boy, girl, woman, man, love, Republic of Estonia or human rights were said no difference, in any case they had one reaction, namely, they started raging and cursing. Unfortunately, you have also seen this during this debate. Fortunately, there has been very little in the letters that have come to us. Let's all keep it on those portals that survive collecting these people's thoughts. They're all clear. In fact, these rascals are not stupid people, but trivial and cowardly people who are constantly trying to prove themselves, at the expense of those who are different from them, at the expense of any minority, they are one, another or third, either by skin colour or by some other trait, but in any case they must prove themselves. Two ideologies feed on it, they are fascism and communism, on which I, excuse me, cannot tell the difference. Much more made me think of those letters that came to us that were debating and mostly polite. There is no reason to be upset when people, for example, do not know how the Riigikogu works and call for a draft debate in the committee and in the large hall to push it through. Let's just say they were wrong. When you read these letters, you realize that it is mostly a deep conviction that relates to faith. I'm an atheist, through and through, but I respect people who are religious. I respect their right to believe in God. But when I read these letters, I wondered if the same god who taught mostly tolerance could not see what had happened. Since the beginning of time, all that has happened is that a bee still flies towards a flower. If you ever had to prove your wish at the altar and then an official of the state added to it, today we live a life where such things are spoken together, just a yes word, and no one needs to be there as a witness. Perhaps you could read more of your scripture or talk to your God about the fact that he may have noticed that there has been such a change in life. It would be up to us to spot the people who actually live such a changed life. The most common argument here, as you know, is that let them be alone, but let them not disturb me. Read the law and think about how they will interfere. I'm not interrupting! Not disturbing me, my honored husband, my children, my friends, my acquaintances. When I think about what might happen because of this law, I realize that the lives of many people, whom I deeply respect, will become more secure. I firmly believe that it will be easier for them to live after the adoption of this law and that they will feel more human in the country where we live than they do now. Therefore, dear friends, who have asked a lot of questions here today and started your questions politely! I have a proposal to take this matter this way: if someone proposes to reject this draft at first reading, it is the person who does not recognise that there are others. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U180	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to assure you that we in the IRL accept the right of all people to live in exactly the way they see fit, unless it is dangerous for others. The law of cohabitation has justified a great deal of passion, and the debate has been very emotional. This is true for many reasons, both in substance and in form. Personally, I am most disturbed by the lying and wrestling of some of the initiators of the bill. So far, it is not possible to understand who the real author of this draft is. Already on 19 March, the day before the rainbow government had signed the coalition agreement, Mr Imre Sooäär sought support signatures for the draft Cohabitation Act. In an article published a few days later, however, he mentioned that the final text of the draft text was not yet complete. He expressed his hope that the bill would be ready in the coming weeks. Dannar Leitmaa, published in the Estonian Express on 27 March, said 'Cohabitation Act, a bill no one wants to talk about', complains Imre Sooäär that he has somehow accidentally become the advocate of the bill and, in fact, the committee is led by his colleague Rait Maruse. Maruse, in turn, says that he supports a free society, the right of people to regulate their living together in this society, but what exactly is contained in the bill is not his intention to say either. 'This project, however, has been written by the Ministry of Justice, and they know more about it,' he says. The minister's spokesperson, in turn, claims that the draft is initiated by the Riigikogu Commission and the Ministry cannot comment on this. Unfortunately, I am not aware of the existence of such an official Riigikogu working group. It is also impossible to identify the formation of a working group, meetings, discussions or the results thereof. It is unclear why so much is required to be confused when it is claimed that the draft is necessary. Why, then, does no one want to honestly say that the real purpose of this draft is to give homosexual relations legal recognition and social acceptance and to legitimise the so-called homosexual marriage in a hidden way? Why can't we have an honest discussion on this? Why is it necessary for some initiators to say that the draft concerns 170000 people or to stress the obvious unfounded assertion that regulating relations between same-sex people at the level of the law does not concern others? Attorney-at-Law Ilmar-Erik Aavakivi has also made his opinion very clear on this subject. Have real impact assessments been carried out in Estonia? In its letter of 29 May 2014 to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Chamber of Notaries considers it worrying that the solution chosen in the draft proposal for regulating cohabitation does not meet the objectives set out in the draft explanatory memorandum: 'We consider that the draft does not fulfil its main stated objective, as the property relationships between couples living in a factual partnership (but not registered) do not change anything and that the problems identified in the explanatory memorandum and by the Chancellor of Justice remain the same. However, regulation serves another purpose: to give couples of the same sex the possibility to register their cohabitation in such a way that it is also visible to third parties. We believe that the draft gives the impression that giving couples of the same sex an opportunity to register together would be the main objective of the law, which is to hide behind the legal problems arising from the factual cohabitation of (specialised) couples and is not in line with good legislative practice. ' Is it acceptable, in a democratic rule of law, to use legislative power to realise any hidden objectives, even if this results in over-regulation of the legal system? The problems of unregistered people living together were already discussed in 2007, when the Ministry of Justice, which was then led by Rein Lang, developed a draft family law. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law analyses the aspects of common-law relationship: 'The fact that different forms of cohabitation are not regulated in the Family Act does not mean that there is no regulation in Estonian law to define the legal relationships between common-law relationship and same-sex partners and that people's rights and interests remain unprotected. The problem is that partners, although aware that the family law is not applicable, do nothing to determine their property relationships before they break up. It is also often believed that if the rights and obligations of partners are not regulated by the Family Law, no other law will. However, this is not the case. In particular, in order to avoid further disputes, the partners themselves will be able to determine and acquire more valuable items (housing, car) jointly in their contractual relations. If there is only a break-up to explain legal relationships, it will be difficult to reach a mutually satisfactory solution, both in the event of marriage and in the event of the breakdown of a partnership. ' I would like to address another important aspect of this issue, namely homosexual marriages. The highest court in the European Union ruled in December 2013 that in Member States of the European Union where homosexual marriage is not legalised, civil partnerships must grant equal rights to same-sex couples. On 12 December, the Ministry of Justice confirmed that the decision of the Supreme Court of the European Union does not affect the legal order of Estonia, according to which in those Member States where same-sex marriage is not legalised, couples of the same sex must be granted equal rights in civil partnerships. The press representative of the Ministry of Justice told Postimees that the case only applies to situations where people who are married are treated differently and those who have entered into a civil partnership. According to Estonian law, it is not possible for persons of the same or different sexes to enter into a civil partnership with each other, which would be comparable to the civil partnership which the European Court of Justice, on the basis of French law, examined in that case. Thus, the case referred to does not affect Estonia's legal order, he said. I hope that all the initiators have understood how much these issues are related and how much this bill concerns marriage as an institution. We in the IRL don't think it's right or necessary to legitimize gay marriages. We know that in many Western countries the granting of legal recognition to the homo partnership has been a step in the attempt to legitimise so-called homosexual marriages. If there is a real desire in our society to legally redefine the meaning of marriage and family, then it must be discussed honestly and directly, rather than manipulating and vaulting, as has already become a day-to-day decision in the draft procedure, and a referendum. Since this is a decision of such principle, on which there are conflicting opinions in society, it is not acceptable to divide society with one-sided decisions that ignore the beliefs of many people. Otherwise, we risk a very large part of society becoming alienated from political power. If we want to act as real democrats, we must listen to the voice of the people and put the law on partnership in a referendum. I would also like to remind you, good ambassadors, that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as representatives of the state power, we have a constitutional obligation to protect the family institution as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and for society. Thus, the Constitution also obliges us to protect the family from ideological attacks and attempts to redefine it. For the above reasons, the IRL Group proposes to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U182	Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U183	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and in your offices, who are watching us online. It's been a long day and a long night, a lot of speeches have been made, which is why I don't want to talk for a long time. To my good colleague, Priit Sibula, I would like to say that the draft before us today is, at least as far as I am concerned, the fifth or sixth option. The bill you were talking about here is one of the earliest options. All parties, including your party, have contributed to this bill on our table today. I have already commended Liisa Pakosta for your contribution. But no bill that comes into this hall is perfect. Remembering the draft law on employment contracts, as I recall, none of the paragraphs remained the same as in the original version of this hall. This is what this house is for, to discuss constructively together, to think about all the details and to reach a consensus that the Riigikogu will finally be ready to adopt the law. I congratulate all the parties for their constructive debate here today and for their understanding and respectful attitude. There was no major scandal, there was a quiet debate in the early hours of the morning. I end up with Tiina, the mother of three. Tõnis Palts specifically wanted a straight one to say something. This mother, Tiina, says: "I wish my children would grow up in a more tolerant and friendly society. This law would be a small but important step in this direction. " I wish everyone the same understanding in improving this law and further processing as Mother Tiina. Thank you all for the forty instigators!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U184	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to your early morning lesson. I must start by saying that the Centre Party Group did not shape a common position on this draft. Our opinions are different. We allow our members to vote on such a matter concerning the private life of other people in accordance with their internal conviction. It is appropriate to note that our different opinions were not based on either nationality or age. We have accepted and tolerated differences of opinion in the Centre Party Group. All the more saddening I am when some of us have sometimes had the impression of intolerance and insulting others. I apologize if the debate has hurt anyone! I believe that courtesy and argumentation are always more appropriate to any member of the Riigikogu in any debate than alp, angry or jealous speech. But it must be acknowledged that we have all been affected by the outrageous interest in this bill and the very powerful lobbying outside of this house, which has so far been unknown to the Riigikogu. Varro Vooglais, who began collecting countersigns in March last year, long before the draft law was initiated, handed over to our group the day before yesterday a box of signatures of one and a half. I have to give him credit. What he's doing, he's doing well, he's mastered the campaign. My advisors and I read these notes today, or rather yesterday, we looked at the signatures on them, and I can assure you that every fourth note had a clearly identifiable name. But the e-mails that came into our mailboxes were definitely more effective than these. There were several hundred of them. At first, the e-mails against the bill came, and then more and more supporters came. One of these last was an e-mail containing over 2,600 statements of support for the draft. I am very grateful to these people that they decided to send this statement in one letter, although 2600 e-mails would certainly have been very much more effective as leverage. But such influence is not the first time in the Riigikogu. I experienced this for the first time in 2009. You will remember that it was a difficult time of crisis, and the IRL and Reform Party have made cuts. The Centre Party suggested that instead of withdrawing all children's benefits, the upper limit on parental pay could be reduced. At the time, members of our group received very vicious letters from parents who should have accepted parental benefits below 30,000 kroons. Then the greens came to the aid, the old-age allowance disappeared, and the parental benefit remained as high as it remained. A very eloquent stand for its interests ensured that many families certainly had a decent income during the crisis, but they also created quick-borrowing counters in supermarkets. In fact, many families found that this urgent support, which was left out because of pressure, put them in a position where they needed a quick loan. However, everyone has to make decisions based on their deep conscience, only letters do not allow them to make choices. I come back to the rights of couples of the same sex. Of course, we are not the first country to hold such debates in a heated atmosphere. Four years ago, over 18,000 members of the congregation left the Lutheran Church in Finland during the week. This was due to a television show where the bishop of Tampere expressed his intolerance to the same-sex partnership. Since then, the Lutheran Church of Finland has changed its attitude considerably, but it has not changed that Finland is still the first emigration country for Estonian families. At the request of the members of the Centre Party Group, I will address two letters that affected our views.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U186	Mikhail Stalnukhin has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U187	Thank you, Madam President. I really do have a procedural question. In three years, my group has taken hundreds of breaks and put questions to the vote. Every time someone in the group's Bureau has tried to explain why we are doing this, we are forbidden to do so. Indeed, that is what is said in the Home and Working Procedures Act. But over the course of this night, I have heard at least twenty times that the IRL is taking another break and they are given an opportunity to explain why it is doing so. This is a violation of the rules of procedure and of the house. Where did this tolerance come from? Three years have not been an opportunity to explain. Why did you allow this, even now, before this ten-minute break was taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U188	We're tolerant. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the IRL Group. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U189	Thank you, Madam President. The fact that we are tolerant is not the answer. We have the law of the house and the law of procedure. This directly prohibits explaining why a person puts a point to a vote or takes a break. I'm quite demanding that you comply with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U190	That's right! I am voting on the IRL Group's proposal to reject the draft law on partnership at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted against and 45 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. [[Let's hear it.]] I will set the deadline for the submission of 650 draft amendments at 4 p.m. on 12 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U191	We will continue to work on the points on today's agenda. The ninth point is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U192	Thank you. Are guests allowed to clap on the balcony and interrupt the hearing like some kind of theatrical performance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U193	Thank you very much. It seems to me that the people who were on the balcony joined those who were in the hall. [[Interjections.]] We're not going to have a discussion with the guests during the hearing. I would ask Eldar Efendiev to introduce at first reading the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U194	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the Citizenship Act 645. Let's start with the first reading of this bill. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, on the one hand, the need to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the conventions ratified by Estonia and the internationally recognised principle of giving citizenship to all children, on the other hand, led to the need to overcome the conflict on the ground of national relations. The draft provides for the exemption of applicants for citizenship over 65 years of age from the examination of Estonian language and the possibility for them to pass the examination of knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia in Estonian, English or Russian. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Consultative Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe have pointed out over the years in several reports that Estonia should take more positive measures to speed up and simplify the acquisition of citizenship. Hans ten Feld, representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees at the Baltic and Nordic Regional Office, stressed the need to resolve the problem of citizenship quickly in a speech held in the Riigikogu on 17 May 2011. As Estonia has not joined the international conventions for the protection of different stateless people, it believes that politicians should engage in a dialogue to simplify the regulation on citizenship. Mr Feld stressed that Estonia could primarily solve the issue of the citizenship of the children of stateless persons born here, giving them the birth of Estonian citizenship. He stressed that citizenship provides not only a sense of identity but also protection for the state, as well as many civil and political rights. It is not for nothing that it is said about citizenship that it is a right to have rights. There have been major disputes in Estonia on this subject. The most significant of these was the second reading of the draft Citizenship Act in the Riigikogu in 1998, when the current President of the Republic of Estonia and the Estonian Foreign Minister Toomas Hendrik Ilves spoke with an inspiring speech, who stressed that guaranteeing citizenship for children of stateless parents from their birth is the principle of international law that other European countries recognise and observe. In addition, Mr Ilves noted that an argument that should prove that Estonia cannot apply this principle for one reason or another has never been accepted internationally. Nils Muižnieks, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, made a number of recommendations to Estonia in his report last year. One point he pointed out was the need to tackle the reform of citizenship, which would allow children born here to automatically acquire citizenship. He referred to the fact that there were 1181 stateless children under the age of 15 in Estonia as of last year. He found that although the state has created an opportunity for parents to apply for citizenship for children in Estonia, the state is responsible for the emergence of stateless persons. It should be noted that the plan of the Reform Party and the Socialist Coalition states that the return to citizenship should be completed. Coalition partners have found that children whose parents are both stateless and have the right to Estonian citizenship will receive Estonian citizenship if their parents do not give it up. On the other hand, this is not in line with the position of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, Nils Muižnieks, according to which all children born here should be granted Estonian citizenship automatically. The author considers that one of the main reasons why we must allow these children to become citizens is that it is necessary to end the endless transmission of problems from recent history and the burden on parents and the state with endless bureaucratic procedures. Citizenship guarantees better human rights for children born here. This is confirmed by the Commissioner for Human Rights in his report. Now, the objectives of the bill. The main objective of the draft is to facilitate the granting of Estonian citizenship to children born in Estonia whose parent is at least one stateless person. The condition is that the parents have lived legally in Estonia for at least five years. It is worth stressing that this is not about giving citizenship to these children, but about naturalisation for children born in Estonia. Therefore, this principle does not conflict with the principle of uniform citizenship in ius sanguine applied in Estonia. It can be said that long debates have resulted in a solution for children whose parents are both stateless, i.e. with a grey passport. At the same time, there is an unresolved problem that arises when the child is born in Estonia, but one of his parents living here has the citizenship of a third country and the other has the so-called grey passport. I'll give you an example. One parent of the child is stateless and the other is a citizen of the Russian Federation. In this case, the parent has the right to apply for Estonian citizenship for his or her child on a simplified basis when the child has reached the age of five. But there's a problem. In order to apply for Estonian citizenship, the child must abandon the Russian Federation. At the same time, the Russian Federation only accepts a declaration to renounce citizenship when the child is 18 years old. Thus, a situation has been created where the right to citizenship is possible, but it is not practically possible to exercise that right. Our proposal will solve this problem. On the other hand, I would stress that the Estonian state invests large sums of money in every young person -- kindergarten, school, vocational school, university, etc. -- but in the current situation, the state does not bring in its own citizens, but in other countries. According to various sources, almost 250 children are born each year in this situation. We believe that this problem needs to be resolved. The Centre Party will propose its own solutions within the framework of the draft. It should be in Estonia's interest to build a strong sense of citizenship in children born here and to give a clear signal to society that children have been treated equally in Estonia and that the future of children is not dependent on the present or past of their parents. In today's open society, it is high time to overcome confrontation on the ground of national relations and take a major step forward in integration. The citizenship acquired at birth would certainly also facilitate the integration of parents, their interests and future ties with the Republic of Estonia. In addition to the above, the draft proposes that applicants over 65 years of age should be exempted from the obligation to pass the Estonian language proficiency examination, as provided for in the Aliens Act for applicants for long-term residence permits for residents over 65 years of age. The coalition plan of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party states that it supports the principle that applicants for citizenship over 65 years of age must pass an oral examination. The author considers that people over the age of 65 should be allowed to have a dignified old age and ensure a reasonable attitude of the state towards them, not to create exceptions that allow the problems to continue. The draft also creates the possibility to pass an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia in English or Russian. The aim of the amendment is to promote the integration of older people into Estonian society. They are not exempt from the knowledge of the Estonian Constitution and the Citizenship Act, but they are allowed to pass the exam in a language suitable for them. We are of the opinion that knowledge of the basis of the functioning of the country of residence and its beliefs is also necessary for people who do not speak the Estonian language. According to preliminary data from the 2011 census, there were 383062 people whose native language is Russian. We need to understand the difficulties faced by older people over 65 in adapting to another language. At the same time, the Russian language has been recognised as the language of a minority in Estonia, i.e. a foreign language that has been used as a native language by persons of a minority in Estonia. English is the world's most common language of business and communication. In the interests of Estonia, it is reasonable that stateless persons apply for Estonian citizenship rather than for any other country. This will help to ensure the integrity of the country and will result in an increase in internal security and people's security, in addition to everything else. Justice and justice exist in society. In a democratic country, they harmonize. Unfortunately, there is no harmony created by the Citizenship Act in Estonia. For example, a person who speaks a language at level B1 must be able to explain the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the Citizenship Act. Anyone who knows the requirements of this language level will understand that it would actually require at least a B2 level. I also want to refer to justice. This is particularly the case for people over 65 years of age. These people have proven to be decent while living in Estonia... I wanted to say citizens, but I have to say they're residents. They have contributed with their lives to the independence and development of the Estonian state. They have given birth to Estonian children and raised them here. They have paid taxes properly and thus supported the Estonian state. I think that now is the time for the Estonian state to respect and trust these people. In addition to everything else, it should be acknowledged that during difficult times of crisis they had to cope with their own lives, not only economically but also morally, they had to find the strength to live on. It is no secret that the situation in Ida-Virumaa is the most acute, wages are among the lowest in Estonia, unemployment is the highest in Estonia, but prices are the same as elsewhere. I also stress that the resources of Estonian language teachers in Ida-Virumaa are limited. This was also acknowledged by former Minister of Education and Science Tõnis Lukas. We acknowledge these people, they are already potential good citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Finally, I repeat that in today's open society, it is high time to overcome the opposition to national relations and to take a major step forward in integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U195	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U196	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You argued that in Ida-Virumaa wages are the lowest in Estonia and unemployment is the highest. But that's not true. You have outdated statistics; that is not the case for some time now. What data do you rely on to make such claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U197	Last week, all the portals had these data.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U198	Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Citizenship issues are very important for each country and therefore do not change these principles very lightly. Their amendment must be very well-founded and well-designed. Therefore, the quorum requirement in these votes is always greater than usual. In the draft, you have proposed to add the possibility that the examination of knowledge of the Constitution and Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia can also be carried out in English and Russian. What has resulted from this choice of additional languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U200	Thank you for your question. I already told you in my speech that Russian is the language of non-Estonian communication, which is used in everyday communication by nearly 350000 people in Estonia. I emphasized that it has also been recognised in Estonia that English is the world's most widely used language in business and communication. That is why we offered these two languages for the examination of people who apply for citizenship after the age of 65.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U201	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also asked a colleague in the Commission about the explanatory statement. The fifth paragraph of the first chapter of this chapter reads as follows: 'The plan of the Coalition of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party states that the restoration of citizenship must be stopped. ' That's very right, it coincides with Nils Muizhnieks' view. But then you go on: 'The coalition partners have found that in the case of children whose parents are both stateless and who have the right to Estonian citizenship, Estonian citizenship will be granted if the parents do not give it up. At the same time, children born in Estonia are excluded, but they have only one of the oldest stateless persons. [---] It can therefore be argued that the plan of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party coalition contradicts the position of Nils Muizhnieks, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, according to which all children born here should be automatically granted Estonian citizenship. " Nils Muizhnieks speaks of the reproduction of citizenshiplessness, i.e. when parents do not have citizenship. You're talking about giving citizenship automatically. If one parent already has citizenship, we cannot force him after Estonian citizenship, because the other parent does not, because the child automatically has...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U203	Indrek Saar, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U204	... usually the nationality of the country which already has one parent. Where is the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U205	The contradiction was, let's just say that the law and the coalition didn't solve this issue, because there's nothing you can do automatically here, but the position was that automatically allows citizenship to be granted at birth. We offer, say, to solve the third problem. The first problem is when parents are stateless. The second problem you came up with is the citizenship of Estonia and some third countries. The second problem was solved in this sense. We offer to solve the third problem so that the stateless parent can also take the initiative and get away with the problem I was talking about. This simplified procedure applies until the child reaches the age of 15. It turns out that only after he has reached the age of 18 can he apply, for example, to give up Russian citizenship, but then he will no longer be entitled to the benefit granted by the law. We wanted to harmonise this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U206	Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that this draft deals only with the children of stateless persons and not with the descendants of people who are nationals of one country or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U208	It's not like that. The problem of non-national children who have stateless parents has been solved by law. We emphasise this situation, where one parent is Russian, for example, but the other is stateless. Mr Saar rightly said that the problem is that this child cannot be regarded as a stateless person because it automatically receives Russian citizenship. That's when the problem arises that the child doesn't have a choice. Since he has reached the age of 18, he can apply to the embassy of the Russian Federation for a waiver of the nationality of the Russian Federation. My previous speaker said that in his practice this procedure has been going on for nearly two years. No public support. The state is watching how this problem resolves familyly and personally, but it has no interest that this person becomes an Estonian citizen. We wanted to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U209	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U210	Thank you. I'm still trying to figure out how you technically imagine it. If one parent is stateless and the other is, for example, a citizen of the United States, the child will automatically be granted US citizenship under the law in force. How can the Republic of Estonia take away the citizenship of the United States of America and automatically impose Estonian citizenship instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U211	The question was that the simplified procedure would work until the child was 15. When a child becomes an adult, he or she is already a young person, he or she has the right to apply for abstinence. But the simplified procedure will no longer apply to him. That's one side of the problem. We wanted to harmonise that for children who apply for the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia and come from a family where both parents are stateless, this procedure would not apply until the age of 15, but, let's say, until the age of 18, perhaps even longer. That's the one thing we're talking about. The other thing is that a parent who is stateless has the same rights as another parent who has citizenship. I can't tell you the statistics right now, but sometimes there's a situation that I'm saying right now in this round example. Father is a Russian citizen, mother is a stateless citizen. Dad's leaving here, and, let's say, family doesn't work as a full family anymore. But either way, the child has Russian citizenship through his father. This issue is difficult to resolve if there is no state support and interest. That is why we are asking this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U212	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U213	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I agree with you that the proportion of Estonian citizens is indeed the lowest in Ida-Virumaa. But I have a homepage of Statistics Estonia that clearly shows that the average monthly wage is smaller than Ida-Viru County, for example, in Põlva County, Valga County, Võru County, Jõgeva County. There's more of these counties. It is clear here that Ida-Viru County does not have the lowest wages. There is therefore no link between the lack of Estonian citizenship and the lower salary. Which portals are you looking at? You said all the portals had different data. What are these, Central Party portals? Why don't you name the portals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U214	I'm looking at the same portals as you: Delfi, Postman. At all, I'm monitoring everyone who reports this information. I call this article, it says that Ida-Virumaa has the lowest wage in Estonia and Narva has the lowest wage in Ida-Virumaa. You can find it under that name.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U215	Thank you. No further questions. The rapporteur of the Commission is Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U216	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 9 June. The Commission's debate was different from today's debate in that the draft was presented by Yana Toom in the Commission, not Eldar Efendiev. It is also worth noting that Siiri Leskov, adviser to the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, was present at the meeting of the Commission on behalf of the Government of the Republic. The Commission highlighted the main issues that the draft seeks to regulate: the exemption of applicants over 65 years of age from the requirement to know the Estonian language, the possibility of taking an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in Russian and English, and the partial transition to the ius soli principle, i.e. if one parent has a grey passport and the other is a citizen of a third country, in particular the Russian Federation, there will also be the possibility of obtaining Estonian citizenship. All these aspects raised a number of questions and received criticism. According to the representative of the Government of the Republic, the wording of the draft is erroneous in that it allows all applicants for citizenship to pass an examination of the knowledge of the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in Estonian, Russian or English, not only for the elderly. It was pointed out that if it is appealed that the draft is trying to regulate what is stated in the Coalition Agreement between the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, that is not the case. This agreement provides for the exemption of applicants over the age of 65 from the written part of the language examination, but the draft provides for a wider exemption from language testing. The chairman of the committee, Mr Maruse, raised the question of whether there is a country where the examination required to apply for citizenship can be carried out in another language. Siri Leskov's answer was that such a country is not known. Several members of the committee stressed that the principle of ius soli does not coincide in any way with the principle of ius sanguinis in Estonia. Yes, there may be a problem that more citizens of the Russian Federation come from among children, but this change here, as came out in the round of questions and answers, is specific in that we can give Estonian citizenship, but we cannot in any way free these young people from the citizenship of another country. In such a case, there would be rather uncomfortable disputes, at least as long as there is a ban on double citizenship in Estonia. Several members of the Commission pointed out that the drafters, at least in the Commission, tried to serve the matter in such a way that when the simplified procedure was written into the law for applicants for citizenship born in 1930 and earlier, they said it was a mistake, in fact people over the age of 65 were actually thinking. This claim was criticised for the fact that those people who are now over 65 years of age were much younger and more shaky when the rule was introduced, and they probably would have had the opportunity to take the exams if they had been willing to do so. This part of the arguments put forward by the drafters concerning the claims made by the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner, Nils Muižnieks, is also somewhat misleading. He has wanted citizenship primarily for those children who would otherwise remain stateless, not for those who are entitled to the citizenship of a third country. The debate resulted in a vote in the Commission. It was first proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 June. It was consensually satisfied. 17 June was now two days ago, but we are still living under the star of this agenda. It was also proposed to reject the draft at first reading, supported by 6 members of the Commission, 2 against and no abstentions. The speaker was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U217	Questions for the waitress. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U218	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I too looked at the extract from the minutes of the committee sitting. I had the impression that the speakers in the Commission's meeting referred to the coalition agreement and that the government was planning to send a draft on citizenship to this Chamber or the Commission in the autumn. Can you tell me exactly what the questions, let's say, are going to be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U219	Thank you. I am perhaps not the best addressee of this question; this should still be asked by the Members of the coalition. I can assure you that there was talk that changes to the Citizenship Act would come to the Riigikogu. If I remember correctly, there was talk of some other relief for those over the age of 65 and, in the case of children's citizenship, of the same Muižnieks proved that these children would be granted citizenship without further application if they were descendants of stateless persons. But this question concerned the decisions of the coalition, which may not overlap with the ideas of the citizenship law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U220	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U221	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm sorry, I didn't notice! What was the Commission's position on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U222	The Commission decided to reject this draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U223	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to reject the draft 645 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a ten-minute break before this vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U225	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U226	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the leading committee 645 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal and 15 against, with no abstentions. Draft 645 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U227	The next item is the third reading of the Constitutional Committee's draft law on the election of the Riigikogu and the amendment of other laws 617. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 617. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U228	Thank you. This is once again a major bill, which is why we probably need a little discussion here too. I therefore ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U229	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U230	Honourable Riigikogu, since Bill 617 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. Requesting presence check! Currently 63 members are present and 38 members of the Riigikogu are absent. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the election of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee and on the amendment of other laws 617. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 617 as a law, against 1 and no one abstained. The law amending the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U231	The next item is the third reading of Eiki Nestor, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõud, Sven Mikser and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws related to it. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 691. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U232	Thank you. During the last break in the vote, ladies and gentlemen on the sidelines asked why I took these breaks. Let me remind you again that I'm doing this so that we can...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U233	Is this a procedural message? If we do not wish to take a break, we will proceed to the vote. So what now? Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U234	I'm sorry, you interrupted my sentence! I just wanted to say that I want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U235	But then say so. Break 10 minutes, proceed at 6.49.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U236	Honourable Riigikogu, since Bill 691 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, we need to carry out a verification of the presence. Incoming check, please! There are 61 members of the Riigikogu, no 40. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law of the Riigikogu members and the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 691. Please take a stand and vote. There are 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Act and 8 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U237	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 554. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U238	Thank you. I ask for this amendment... Sorry, not an amendment, it is a final vote. You see, early morning. Ten minutes of recess, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U239	Fire! Break ten minutes. It ends at 7:00... Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U240	I ask that Mrs Kaia Iva be given an opportunity to explain why she is doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U241	The President of the Riigikogu is forbidden to ask Kaia Iva why she is doing this. Break ends at 7:02.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U242	Honourable Riigikogu, since draft 554 requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption, we need to carry out a verification of our presence. Requesting presence check! 61 members of the Riigikogu are absent. I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 554. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the draft act 554 and there are no opponents or abstentions. The law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U243	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act 653 amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 653. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U244	I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U245	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U246	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 653. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 653 law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Act amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U247	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 620. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U248	Thank you. I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U249	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 7:25.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U250	I am voting on the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 620. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 620 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The Law amending the Fishing Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U251	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 661. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U252	Dear Chairman, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U253	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 7:37 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U254	I am voting on the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 661. Please take a stand and vote. There are 44 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 661 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The law amending the Waste Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U255	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 652. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U256	Thank you. I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U257	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 7:48 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U258	I am voting on the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 652. Please take a stand and vote. There are 47 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 652 as a law, and there are no opponents or abstentions. The law amending the Spatial Data Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U259	The next item is the third reading of Inara Luigas, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra's draft law amending the Waste Act. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 455. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U260	Thank you, good manager. I'm asking for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U261	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 7:59.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U262	Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the Waste Act, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Inara Luigas, Kalle Laanet, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra, 455. Please take a stand and vote. There are 38 and 8 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 455 as a law. The law amending the Waste Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U263	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U265	Please give me more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U266	Dear Riigikogu! I am pleased that there are so many of you here at this early morning to discuss the third-reading draft on child and family allowances. It is historic in this sense that universal child support was last raised over ten years ago. It was the government run by Juhan Parts. In the meantime, there has been a great deal of talk about raising universal child benefits in this Chamber. Very many drafts have been sent from here without a final positive decision. In the meantime, however, we have received, for example, needs-based child benefit from the child and family benefit system. Similarly, we have been able to raise the universal child allowance for the third child and for each of the next child to almost 100 euros, which has been a major step. On behalf of the IRL Group, speaking here today, I say that we are very pleased that this draft on child support is here. When the current government was formed, one of the fundamental promises of the Sots was precisely to increase universal child benefits. I'm glad this promise is coming true today. But I think that is the kind of subject where, in fact, all parties agree. Maybe except for the Reform Party, whose philosophy is a little different. They have always said that universal child support should not be increased, but should rather be approached individually. That is their right to take that view; we have world-view freedom. But I am sure that today they will also vote in favour of this draft. IRL has also raised this issue, which we must certainly think about further, and has tabled its amendment, which this time did not receive the support of the Commission or the Chamber. Indeed, if we really want to do something about helping children and families who are in serious trouble, in addition to raising universal child support for the first and second children, we should look more closely at families with three or more children. The problem is simple. If both parents work in the family and receive a normal salary, the family is usually at or below the poverty line after the birth of the third, fourth, or fifth children. At the same time, we know that statistically the increase in the population begins with the third child of the family. I hope that, if not during the composition of this Riigikogu, at least when you go on an election campaign to be in the next Riigikogu, you will remember precisely the needs of families rich in children. I hope that this issue will not remain in stone for ten years after today's decision, but will move forward in a positive direction, particularly with regard to the third and more children of families. But I have a problem too. In the same way, today's decision is very positive when we look at general family and children's policies. After all, scientists have also said that it is very good for the increase in birth rates if the country gives positive signals, but also here... [[I don't know what you're ……]] Can you hear me? Here too, in the course of this sitting, we have made decisions that send a negative message, a very serious negative message. These decisions have disrupted the parental pension system and postponed some of it for three years. Although this was the first reading of the bill, I know that the coalition is planning to do the second and third reading of the draft which postpones the parental pension before the summer. I would also like you to consider, in the debate on this positive subject, that you may still take down this plan to postpone your parental pension. These same scientists have said that any message that conveys information that the state is acting unstablely has a negative impact on all the steps that we can take for the benefit of children and families. This message on parental pension is very important. This concerns 226000 people who currently know that they are receiving a parental pension. It's not a new idea, the law on it has been passed in this Chamber. I remember that no party opposed this idea. In this sense, it is a pretty bitter taste in raising child benefits. Quite a few politicians have also said that we are taking away this pension from mothers who have raised children and who know that the parental pension is coming because we want to increase child benefits. We recall the other debates held in this Chamber and also what Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas has said that the coalition still has EUR 40 million in reserve somewhere. This contrast is a very bad and negative message, which a number of population scientists have also spoken about in this very Chamber. So I'm afraid that even though the rise in child benefits brings real money to families, the message remains a little negative. These figures have already been heard in this Chamber, but I will say once again, for the sake of the verbatim report, that the postponement of the parental pension will take a total of EUR 86 million from the 226000 mothers who have raised children. This is the real money that is prescribed by the current law and which has been taken into account in national budgetary strategies for years. The IRL Group supports the adoption of the law and the increase in universal child support, especially for the first and second children. A little more could have raised the support of the third child and the next children, but I hope this is the subject of the future. Finally, I will knock on your conscience, good coalition people, to withdraw the draft proposal for a deferral of your mother's pension from the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U267	I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group Laine Randjärve!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, every speaker has the right to use this eight minutes to drive demagoguery from this remote area. This right cannot be withdrawn either by the Rules of Procedure Act or by any other law. However, I must say that the accusations made by the previous speaker against the Reform Party were completely inappropriate, not to mention that the listeners' brains are being rubbed and washed with statements as if something had been taken away from someone. You see, you can't take away money if it doesn't exist. Therefore, the statements we have just heard from this remote control are not true. I would like to remind you and to make it clear that, even though the Reform Party is being scolded, this coalition, which is currently operating in cooperation between the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, has reached an agreement to raise all child support, first of all, universally and also on a need-based basis. It cannot therefore be argued that the Reform Party has opposed its lifting. Both coalition partners have been in favour of raising the support of all first and other children to EUR 45, the third child to EUR 100 and, in addition, the need-based support to EUR 45. That's a lot of money. I believe that grandparents, too, are much easier due to this decision because, according to statistics, it is grandparents who have helped children most. I believe that if the support of grandchildren rises, many of the euro will remain in their grandparents' pockets. This is an exceptionally good bill. I believe that everyone will vote in favour. I call for no delay in the adoption of this law and for no reason to take breaks. Let us find our own statesmanship in order to vote this time immediately after the speeches. This would show the real attitude towards this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U269	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, Heljo Pikhof, to speak in the Riigikogu chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Socialists are truly pleased that this bill will be adopted as a law today. After all, we've been sitting here for long hours of nights to get the support of the first and second children up. Believe me, the increase in support for the first and second children will also improve the situation of families with many children. After all, the third child's support and the next child's support will rise to EUR 100 per month. We are also pleased that there will be an increase in needs-based child support. If the family with children lives in relative poverty and asks for needs-based family support, it is possible to apply for 45 euros in a family with one child and 90 euros in a family with two or more children. It is still a considerable help for a low-income family. If we look at income support, families with children will now receive a little more support when applying for income support. All children receiving income support will receive 45 euros. This is not included in income when determining income support. For years, we have stood for increasing universal child support. Our belief that the support of the first and second children, and of course of all the next children, will have borne fruit. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to thank you in advance for all of you pressing the green button and in favour of raising child benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U271	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote on draft 669. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U272	Thank you. I'm asking for a six-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U273	Are you sure that's six minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U274	Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U275	Six minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U276	Good fellows, the intermission requested by the IRL is over. I shall put draft 669 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 669 on amendments to the State Family Benefits Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. [[Let's hear it.]] 18th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U277	Let's move on to item 19. The third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U278	Thank you. I'm gonna need ten minutes of recess this time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U279	Thank you! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U280	Good fellows, the intermission requested by the IRL is over. I will put draft 643 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu, against 1, with no abstentions. Draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 643 has been adopted as a law. The item on item 19 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U281	Let's move on to item 20. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal to align § 5 (2) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act with the Constitution (No 27) begins the debate. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I turned to the Riigikogu some time ago with the proposal to bring the provision into line with the Constitution, which I consider to be unduly restricting the minor's right to decide on the termination of his or her pregnancy. I will then explain the starting points and the reasons for my proposal. Paragraph 5 (2) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act prohibits the termination of a minor's pregnancy without the consent of his or her legal representative or, if the representative disagrees, without the permission of the court. Thus, a representative's consent can be denied with the permission of the court, but in any case the legal representative must be informed of the pregnancy of the parent or guardian, regardless of the circumstances that would justify not informing the parents, for example when there is a risk of mental or physical violence against the child by the legal representative. Therefore, the contested provision does not allow for the degree of maturity of the minor to be taken into account or to consider whether it would be in the interest of the minor to include a legal representative. Such a rigid and non-negotiable rule is contrary to the Constitution. I will explain why. Regardless of minority, man has fundamental rights. This means that a minor also has a general right of liberty and a fundamental right of personality under § 19 of the Constitution. This fundamental right includes a person's right to self-determination, including in matters concerning the continuation of gender and the creation of a family. This fundamental right also gives rise to the right of everyone to freely decide whether to intervene physically. § 19 of the Constitution is therefore also relevant in the field of health care, i.e. it must be taken into account when reviewing a person, operating, administering medicinal products. This provision of the Constitution also applies to the relationship between a minor and his or her parents. True, parents have the right and responsibility to care for their children. However, the constitutional custody of parents is limited to the rights and interests of the child. The same is true of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is binding and directly applicable to the Republic of Estonia. In this way, the minor's freedom of decision must be recognised in accordance with the development of his or her abilities, i.e. in view of the maturity of the minor. Parental power is reduced to the degree of maturity of the child. The Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which is binding on Estonia, contains a requirement that a medical professional may provide health services when the person has voluntarily given his or her informed consent. In other words, the patient usually decides whether or not to allow medical intervention after considering all the pros and cons. The Convention states that the role of a minor in the provision of medical care increases in proportion to his or her age and degree of maturity. The Convention on Human Rights and Biomedical thus emphasises the decision-making power of a minor according to the development of his or her abilities, or maturity. The privacy of the minor must be guaranteed, together with the decision-making power. The right to privacy derives from § 26 of the Constitution. This right is a right of every person, which includes information about the condition of a person's body and spirit. The privacy of fundamental rights also applies to the relationship between a doctor and a patient. The doctor must ensure confidentiality so that the person has the courage to contact the doctor for help at all. This means that if the minor is provided with health care with the agreement he/she has informed, the patient's trust is also protected against his/her parent. A parent does not always have the right to receive information from a doctor about the provision of health care to a child. This is also true in the event of the termination of a minor's pregnancy. Thus, when it comes to the issue of minor abortion, parental custody must recede before the right of a pregnant woman to self-determination. In so doing, a minor cannot be deprived of his or her discretion in matters relating to his or her health and physical integrity solely because he or she is under 18 years of age. Therefore, where a minor is able to give informed consent to the termination of his or her pregnancy, it is not justified to require the consent of the parent or other party. A teenager also has the right to privacy and to the protection of a doctor's and patient's trust in a situation where he or she reasonably opposes the involvement of a legal representative. My contested provision precludes the independent decision-making of a person under the age of 18 in favour of his parents or guardian. In doing so, a woman's doctor must not grant a reasoned exception to a teenager who is capable of considering the pros and objections in a responsible manner. The doctor must also require the parents or guardian to be informed if this would be contrary to the interests of the pregnant woman for reasons attributable to them. By way of derogation, it is possible to replace the consent of a legal representative with the permission of a court, which is of no use, since the precondition for obtaining a court's authorisation is to inform the legal representative, who must have refused to give consent. As a result of the analysis, I find that § 5 (2) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act is too rigid and therefore contrary to the Constitution. This provision prohibits the termination of a minor's pregnancy without the consent of his or her legal representative or the permission of the court. Thus, the provision restricts the right to self-determination below 18 in a disproportionate manner by making it overly dependent on its parents or guardians. Nor does this provision guarantee a minor's right to privacy and health protection. I'll explain. Under 18 years of age, this provision does not allow the pregnancy to be interrupted safely and without dedicating parents or guardians. In so doing, the provision does not allow consideration to be given to the degree of maturity of the minor and does not allow consideration to be given to whether the involvement of a legal representative is in the interest of the minor. In my opinion, when bringing this anti-constitutional provision into line with the Constitution, the legislator could consider whether to restore the solution previously in force, so that the issue of abortion of a minor is governed by the provisions of the Law of Obligations Act governing the provision of health care services to a minor. The Law of Obligations Act contains, in my opinion, sufficient balanced regulation on this issue. According to this law, for patients with reduced capacity, the right to health care is subject to the principle of informed consent, in so far as the patient is able to consider the pros and cons in a responsible manner. Otherwise, his legal representative will decide for him. If the decision of the legal representative is likely to harm the patient's interests, the healthcare provider may not comply with it. If this provision is good enough for a minor to decide on his or her own cancer treatment or kidney surgery, why can he or she not decide to discontinue his or her pregnancy under the same provision? Before the termination of a pregnancy, a minor may be offered psychological and crisis counselling in addition to other usual counselling. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U283	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. You have at least one question. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U284	Thank you, manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You're suggesting that under 18-year-olds also have the right to self-determination. Shouldn't Article 8 of the Employment Contracts Act, which limits a minor's right of self-realisation, be analysed? According to this, a minor's declaration of intent to conclude an employment contract is irrelevant if it has been made without the consent of his or her parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U285	Thank you! But that's another subject. I am just defending fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U286	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. More... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! Let's ask questions faster! Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U287	Thank you. This is a very sensitive subject, humanly speaking. A young person must choose whether to become a mother or not. Certainly, such matters cannot only be dealt with regulatoryly. But what should the mechanism be when we talk about the fundamental right, the right to decide on our body, to make our own choices? The question is, there may be a situation where this young person is faced with pressure so that he cannot actually decide to be a mother and in turn decide for a new life. What should also be the legal protection mechanisms for this young person's livelihood? It's one thing to offer counseling. But how can this very young person, a minor, not be under excessive pressure when making choices?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U288	Time! One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U289	Thank you! Parliament will decide. But I have said that the implementation of the Law of Obligations Act, as in 2002-2009, could also be considered. Moreover, it can be said philosophically that ending a pregnancy or carrying it to the end is purely a woman's decision because it affects the woman's body and spirit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U290	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. Rein Lang, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 27 was opened by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 10 June at 14 a.m. Urmas Reinsalu represented Liisa-Ly Pakosta of the IRL as an alternate member. The question of Urmas Reinsalu was probably a result of this. The Chancellor of Justice presented the content of his proposal. It matched exactly what he said here today, it doesn't make any sense to repeat it. Hent Kalmo, Deputy Chancellor of Justice, added that the content of the proposal is not that the age limit for authorising the termination of pregnancy should be brought down. Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, pointed out that the problem is that the law in question sets an equal sign between minority and the limited capacity of mental disabilities. In general, the prohibition contested by the Chancellor of Justice would be understandable if the desire to terminate a pregnancy were for a minor who is incapacitated by his or her mental state. Liisa-Ly Pakosta tried to delve into the content of this provision, to what it might look like in the future, but the members of the Commission concluded that it was still possible to discuss whether a minor had fundamental rights and whether it was not currently an anti-constitutional restriction of fundamental rights. As a result, 6 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agreed that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 27 should be supported, 1 was opposed, and 1 abstention. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Committee in the Riigikogu's plenary session was appointed here. That was the end of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U292	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Allow me to present the procedure for processing an item on the agenda which has been dealt with in the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs of the Riigikogu Act, §s 149.152. Next is a presentation by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof, which will last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask him one oral question. Then there are negotiations where members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. When negotiations are concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. An important clarification is that a majority of the votes in favour is required for the adoption of the proposal. I would ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice of 3 June 2014 No 27 on "Restrictions on the termination of pregnancy' at its meeting on 12 June. The meeting was attended by the Chancellor of Justice, Deputy Chancellor of Justice, Hent Kalmo, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ivi Normet, Kai Haldre from the Estonian Women's Doctors' Association, Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Mairi Kaha from the Estonian Sexual Health Association, Helika Saar from the Children's Protection Association, Indrek Niklus as a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Ants Nõmper as a representative of the Estonian Council of Bioethics and an adviser from the Legal and Analytical Department of Liri Oja, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I'm not going to repeat the Chancellor of Justice's story. He has already spoken about why he turned to the Social Affairs Committee on his proposal No 27. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the representative of the Society of Women's Doctors, the representative of the Association of Sexual Health and the representative of the Bioethics Council, all agreed that the law should be amended because the situation in which the court and the parent have a greater right than the child to decide whether a pregnancy should be interrupted is not constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U294	Thank you. You have questions. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U295	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What, in your opinion, could be the optimal regulation for limiting the right to abortion for minors? Or do you think that the minor's freedom to decide on the right to abortion is absolute, without any regulation and any additional conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U296	Thank you for your question. I think that, in the case of minors, abortion could be regulated as was the case until 2009, i.e. the Law of Obligations Act. When we talked about this in the committee, the representatives of the Estonian Women's Doctors' Association were in full agreement. They claimed that women's doctors were able to judge whether a young person was mature enough. If he or she is not mature to understand and give informed consent, then of course the parent must be involved. However, the requirement that a court should be involved in the event of a disagreement between a parent and a child was already considered too much. For the time being, under the Law of Obligations Act, it is also the case for minors that if the doctor sees that the child is capable of giving informed consent, then no further consent is sought from the parent. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U297	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U298	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! My question is a bit different, but it is very suitable for the waitress. The proposal of the Chancellor of Justice is based on the question whether a minor can make a precise decision without his or her parents. At the same time, according to § 8 of the Employment Contracts Act, a minor does not know whether or not he or she may enter into an employment contract, he or she must seek the consent of the parent. In the light of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, should we give young people more rights and freedoms when they start working?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U299	In most cases, this consent is obtained from the parent. It's like another subject. It is important to look at working conditions and other things so that the parent still knows where the child is going to work and whether working conditions are safe.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U300	Good waitress, thank you. But there's one more question for you. Urmas Reinsalu, please! We're faster! Please, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U301	Honourable waitress! Indeed, also in the Committee on Social Affairs, when we were together years ago, these issues were being discussed. One side here is the so-called legal procedure. Here, I think, the Chancellor of Justice is moving in the right direction. But that's a question with two sides. A young person is likely to be materially dependent on his or her parents and may be pressured to lean on him or her to opt for abortion, even though he or she would like to become a mother. What mechanism or scheme should we have in law that protects the rights of this young person if he or she wishes to make a decision in favour of motherhood?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U302	Do you mean nobody tells him to have an abortion if he doesn't want to? Is that what you thought? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U303	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U304	Honourable listeners! In the general principle, of course, we must agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the absolute prohibition on the termination of a minor's pregnancy without the consent of a legal representative, usually the consent of the parents or the permission of the court, unduly restricts the definition of a young woman, a teenager. This is particularly true in cases where family circumstances are complicated, relationships with parents are critical or violent, when a minor is without parental care or, for example, an extreme situation, rape, and the resulting pregnancy. It is particularly perilous that an elder has the right to demand that a minor undergo an abortion. This puts a pregnant youth in a particularly restrictive position where a positive decision on unborn life is not up to him. It is therefore necessary to provide for more flexible regulation in which to decide whether to terminate a minor's pregnancy. At the same time, it should be noted that a situation in which a minor does not want or cannot talk to his or her legal representative about matters of such importance, asking for advice or consent is in itself problematic and needs to be dealt with separately. This requires professional advice, analysis of the situation or supervision of a social adviser, child protection or other specialist. It is important to note that making regulation more flexible and increasing the right of a minor to self-determination cannot be a step to the other extreme. A minor cannot remain alone on these issues; all responsibility cannot be on the shoulders of a young person in this highly complex situation. Of course, in addition to his or her own opinion, the most important thing is the attitude, support, and opinion of the child's father. That is what we have not paid attention to right now. The possibility of a couple of joint decisions and responsibilities could also be one of the main objectives. However, the role of a minor parent cannot become insignificant. At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that, on a number of other issues, we are greatly restricting the right of the minor to self-determination, which Terje drew to the attention here, for example, the consent of a legal representative is required when he takes up his duties. One might ask whether it is more difficult for a minor to decide whether to do maintenance work in the park during the summer vacation and whether it is more important for a young person's right to self-determination than to decide on the life of an unborn child. Therefore, we agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the restrictions must be changed, but the regulation that is being introduced must be considered on all sides and the rights of the young person must be equally supported and adequately consulted. Adequate, evidence-based and enforceable counselling supports women's choices and contributes to coping with changes during pregnancy, preparing for childbirth, breast-feeding, and adapting to their mother's role. Its attachment to the applicable, restrictive regulation is necessary and unavoidable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U305	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Kaia Iva, please! You were in a hurry, you were.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U306	Thank you. I want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U307	Exactly! Thank you. I forgot about that. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U308	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U309	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. There are 44 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. As a result of the Riigikogu's support for the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring § 5 (2) of the Act on the termination of pregnancy and sterilization into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The 20th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U310	Let's move on to item 21. The second reading of Act 692 on the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present Tõnis Kõiv, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 612 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 March 2014. The first reading of this draft was completed on 9 April and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 April 2014. There were no proposals for the draft. Draft Act implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act 668 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 May. Its first reading was completed on 21 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 30 May. One amendment was tabled by the speaker on draft 668. At its meeting on 9 June, the Committee on the Environment decided in principle to merge drafts 612 and 668. The new bill's number is 692. The initiator of the drafts also agreed to merge the drafts. The Committee on the Environment prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting of 9th, 10th and 16th June, attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. Hannes Veinla, a lecturer on environmental law, took part in the meeting on 9 June and gave the members of the Commission an overview of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. The amendments tabled were discussed at the meeting on 10 and 16 June. You have received a list of amendments which I am not going to read out. However, I would like to draw attention to a letter received by the Committee on the Environment from Kodala OÜ. In his letter, he asked us to put forward an amendment on the extension of the construction ban zone. Since there is no reason for this amendment from the standpoint of the Ministry of the Environment, there is no contradiction between the provisions of the law and § 40 of the current Nature Conservation Act already allows the construction ban zone to be extended and narrowed, there is a regulation to that end, the Commission decided not to propose an amendment to this effect. At its meeting on 9 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to send draft law 612 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, and draft law 668 implementing the General Part of the Environmental Code Act to the second reading of the new text entitled 'Proposal for the Implementation of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act' (692 SE) on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 18 June 2014 and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U312	Thank you! You have questions. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U313	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am interested in § 14 of this draft, which contains a mechanism for the entry into force of the block. What is the reason for this three-block entry into force? What substantial effects will the unit-by-block entry of this draft lead to, which areas will then enter into force by block?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U314	Thank you, good questioner! When we look at § 14 of Bill 692, or § 14 of the amendment to the bill, I see here an amendment which provides for an amendment to the text of § 26 which regulates the reimbursement of costs for causing environmental damage or the risk of such damage. However, if not to look at a specific section but to answer the question in substance, it must be said that the different dates of entry into force depend on the stage of preparation for the implementation of the law and when the entry into force of those parts is possible. All these deadlines are based on the principle: as quickly as possible, but not as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U315	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! According to the draft law, § 35 (3) of the Act reads as follows: "In the event of a tenting and other permanent stay in an unprepared and unmarked place, the noticeable visibility and hearing distance of the dwelling must be avoided. Open terrain must be avoided at least 150 metres from the home. " What is the reason why you have to stay 150 metres away from the house? What harm can a closer camping do to this house?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U317	Thank you, good questioner! This is one of the necessary and important changes to this bill, which protects people living in beautiful places from excessive disturbance. There are two criteria. One is a minimum distance of 150 metres; the other is that it is necessary to avoid visibility. The tent itself has no negative effect on anyone, but the environmental disturbance resulting from the camping process, which may mean, for example, a variety of voices and noises, can disturb people. Such noise should be avoided during camping and other activities. 150 metres is the subjective distance determined in metres, it is assumed to be sufficient. In fact, it may appear that this is not enough, in which case campers simply have to submit to prayer to stop disturbing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U318	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U319	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I don't myself have the faith of big codes, legal palaces. I think that over-regulation is inevitable there, and it tends to occur in the comprehensive rewriting of laws, especially in the area of economic governance and the special part of administrative law. The environmental code has been in place for years. When can it be said that the codification of Estonian environmental law has reached such a level as the codification of general civil law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U320	Thank you for your question. I think we can be satisfied when we have completed the second reading of this bill, passed the law at third reading, and it has entered into force on 1 August 2014. Then the situation is pretty good in the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U321	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Seven amendments have also been received for bill 692. Let's start reviewing them. From the first amendment to the fifth amendment, the lead committee has proposed it. The view is that they should be fully taken into account. The first amendment. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U322	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment and, before the vote, to vote on it for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U323	Got it. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U324	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association has ended. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. The proposal was supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 6 has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Kõiv, the position of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U325	A moment ago, I asked for a ten-minute break on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U326	Ten minutes break. But do you want to vote? Procedural question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U327	Excuse me, could the President of the sitting explain to me what is meant by 'the ten-minute break for the amendment'?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U328	I guess this means that, as a result of the previous cooperation that has taken place here all night, this amendment is wanted to be voted on and ten minutes of recess is requested before it. I suppose that means that. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U329	Thank you. I also have a procedural question. On whose behalf was this amendment requested?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U330	Is it recess? For IRL. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U331	Is it quite correct for the manager to assume what a member of the Riigikogu might have thought? Perhaps it should be done according to the fact that if a member of the Riigikogu asks for something that is not provided for in the Riigikogu regulations, this request cannot be satisfied and we go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U332	Thank you. Certainly, it is always proper to follow the Lawyers first and foremost. Indeed, our Home and Working Procedures Act provides an opportunity to take a ten-minute break before the vote. True, there are often many things to be expected here. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U333	Thank you, Mr President. I suggest that, in this confused situation, which Indrek Saar has just mentioned, perhaps we take the chairman's break for a moment and clarify things. Then we can continue our normal procedure. If you don't mind, why don't we just make these procedures clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U334	Thank you. I, too, was thinking that this did not mean any constitutional crisis. I've come to the conclusion that that doesn't mean that. We'll take a ten-minute break on the IRL proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U335	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I shall put to the vote the sixth amendment tabled by Mr Kõiv, Member of the Riigikogu. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. by 41 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. The proposal was supported. Good fellows! Now, I'm taking the chairman's break because our information system needs to be uploaded before the next session. Break takes 15 minutes. Wednesday's session is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 9.47 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U336	Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin Question Time. We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 37 members of the Riigikogu are present, 64 are missing. The following members of the government participate in the Question Hour: Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus, Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palo and Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur. Four members of the Riigikogu announced their wish to ask a question last day. Therefore, I think there may be additional questions from the hall today on each subject to come three, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U337	The first question is put by Helir-Valdor Seeder to the Minister of Culture in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U338	Thank you. Dear Minister, The abruptly changed positions of the Minister for Economic Affairs on the organisation of ferry traffic, the lies and vassis that the press has pointed out, is an example of a regrettablely low political culture. But, as we know, the decision made in the Prime Minister's office in a narrow circle that the state would be denied ferry purchases has also been approved by the government office. This means €8 to €9 million per year of more expensive ferry traffic for the state. Within 10 years, this will cost EUR 80 to 90 million in extra costs, which will be equal to the cost of parental pension planned for more than 200000 families until 2018. The government is now planning to cancel the parental pension by referring to a lack of money. As a member of your cabinet, as an islander and as a ferry user, were you in favour of this decision? How do you justify such an anti-state and ferry decision, but at the same time a very beneficial decision for a private monopoly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U339	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you, Mr Ceder, for this question. You used the words 'as your islander'. As an islander, I have to say that, of course, I am a consumer of ferry services, I have been there for 19 years and I have seen its changes and improvements. I very much appreciate the steps that have been taken to acquire new ferries and I would like the quality of service to continue to improve. As a customer or consumer, I am interested in the best possible value for money. As regards the decision of the Cabinet on how to proceed with this service, I must trust my colleagues and their decisions. I am the Minister of Culture and I have to admit that the area of ferry traffic is very dense, there are many responsibilities and tasks. I have heard and agreed with all the speakers from all the experts in the government office, of course also the positions of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I believe that the current solution will provide an opportunity to promote this service better in the future, and I, as an islander who travels between the island and the mainland, will be even more satisfied in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U340	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. There is one minute to ask the question and two minutes to answer the question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, the first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U341	Thank you. I'm asking about trust and experts. Why does the Government Office as a whole not trust the Ministry of Economic Affairs' officials that the provision of public ferry services is EUR 8 to 9 million cheaper per year, as confirmed by expert analyses? Why do shipping companies not believe that it will be possible to build the necessary ships by 2016? Did the European Commission's electronic letter confirming that the proposed solution is in line with the European Union's state aid rules not convince the government when it was decided to base itself on the vague suspicions of the Minister for Economic Affairs, which correspond to the interests of the current monopoly provider rather than to the public interest, and for which there is no analysis whatsoever? Are you aware that such lost money would make it possible to organise ferry traffic between the mainland and the islands entirely free of charge, or could it increase the tax-free rate or increase child benefits? Why is the government going to represent the interests of a private monopoly instead of representing the public interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U342	Thank you very much for your follow-up. I can introduce you to the way things are going. I know that the Ministry of the Economy will announce an operating contract at the end of June. The Port of Tallinn has announced a procurement for the purchase or construction of ships and has also decided to participate in a procurement organised by the Ministry. A situation has been created where competition is created that affects pricing policy. At present, it can be said that the state and taxpayers are expected to benefit from this. If only one bidder were involved in the operation procurement, the State would certainly be in a worse position. It is very difficult for me to comment on earlier steps. I know that the issue of ferry and ferry traffic was also on the agenda during the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, and there have been different options. The ferry owners have been talked about buying barges to the country. Since I haven't been in these conversations or worked at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I still have to rely on official information. As regards the comparison of the amounts to be lost or won in the future, here I need a little longer calculation time. I would reserve the opportunity to do so even in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U343	Helir-Valdor Seeder, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U344	Thank you. Minister, I am sorry that I had to ask you these questions. Last time, I was going to ask a question to Prime Minister Kõivas, but Sven Mikser was here in his place. Today I was going to ask the question again to Prime Minister Clothes, but instead of him, you are here. There's no way to catch a prime minister who's on the run all the time, the last time I know he was in the Narva Energy race. The Minister of Finance is also on the run during the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is not possible to oppose nature, but perhaps it is possible to set up boys' running times in such a way that Parliament can communicate with the parties concerned themselves and should not communicate with their replacements. You have authority in the government, and the field of sport belongs to the administration of the Ministry of Culture. Raise this question and let the ministers run on rotation. For example, Mikser, as far as I know, is a former sportsman, sometimes let him run for clothing or closet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U345	Mr Ceder, I take note of this comment. I understand you didn't ask me a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U346	People's Ambassador Seeder signed up on political culture as a topic yesterday, reminding the three questioners who have registered here today. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U347	Thank you. My question, too, is about political culture. As we know, today's agenda is the draft reduction of the maternity pension, the draft with which the Government of the Republic intends to take away an average of 120 euros per year from a large number of pensioners. This is a completely unprecedented case when the law already in force is being amended in such a way that pensions are being reduced. This affects about 200,000 people, especially mothers. How do you feel about such a political culture when elderly people, mothers, are treated in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U348	Thank you, Mrs Kaia Iva, for your question. First of all, the members of the Riigikogu have been given a mandate from the people who make decisions on the basis of their values and better understanding and, of course, on the basis of existing proposals. I'm going to specify one of your sentences. You said older people would be deprived of parental pensions. No one in Estonia currently receives this parental pension; no one in fact receives the parental pension at the moment. That's what my colleague says. He supports me. Speaking of political culture, I knew the question in advance, and I thought a little bit about it. Political culture is certainly a part of culture. As we know, culture as a whole is never ready or perfect. We are striving for its perfection, but I stress that the representatives of the people can always develop culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U349	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U350	Thank you. Mrs Urve Tiidus, who are you here today as Prime Minister before us! I also wanted to ask about political culture. Culture often stands out for the new government. I'm gonna put aside the ladies and the other things that have already been asked about. Here's the question. Yesterday, there were people with disabilities. There was a demonstration of them outside. The eye got wet when I looked at the poorest and poorest who came here to beg for more cents. No government representatives were present. That is one thing I would like an answer to: why is no one coming to see the people? The second topic is closer to you, this is the opening of a new Russian-speaking TV channel. I don't know, 23 years have been debating this, and now you've decided in a few weeks that you're gonna call a committee, now you're gonna do it and you're gonna do it. How can such things be done so unculturally, not to mention the people? After all, this recognises that our integration has failed, because a Russian-language TV channel has to be made in Estonia, although everyone here had to speak Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U351	Thank you very much, Mr Heimar Lenk. There were two questions on your question. The first question would be ready to be answered by my colleague, Hanno Pevkur, who was here yesterday. According to my information, a member of the government, Urmas Kruuse, later met with representatives of people with special needs here in the Riigikogu building. Unfortunately, I was not here personally. It must certainly be said that communication, exchange of information and dialogue took place with the people present yesterday and with the representatives of these organisations. It cannot be said that this did not happen because the representatives of these organisations had a plan of their own, which was carried out here before the Riigikogu. Later, a meeting was followed by a meeting on the premises of the Riigikogu. I find it difficult to comment and confirm your belief that there was no dialogue. According to my information, it happened. If you're so kind, then ask Hanno Pevkur about it, maybe he'll specify a little bit, so you'll have more and more information. The second question was the development of the Russian-language information space in Estonia. You said it was as if the integration program had failed. Oh no, on the contrary, we will soon come before the Riigikogu in line with the third integration plan. The word 'integration' is known to have received an Estonian-language equivalent to the 'integration'. There have been very many good changes and there have been many developments, but they are all based on the fact that we have reached a certain stage in the integration process and can move forward. It cannot be argued that any decision on the information space is made without involving society. The Ministry has set up a commission of professionals or media professionals who have kindly promised to advise and make recommendations to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U352	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Time's up. The President of the Riigikogu takes the liberty of saying that the people gathered here were invited to the Riigikogu conference hall and met with them Minister Kruuse and Minister Kütt and members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Margus Tsahkna and Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U353	The next questioner is Siim Kisler. The question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U354	Thank you. Dear Minister, I also ask about ferry connections with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. The officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, both public transport experts and senior officials, have assured you that the state's purchase of barges is possible, first of all, and that there is sufficient time to do so, and secondly, it makes sense, since it saves approximately EUR 8 million per year, or EUR 80 million for ten years, which is a very large amount of money. Why didn't you trust your officials' opinion and decide to change the government's decision? If you don't trust the calculations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, do you have different estimates and charts? Who presented them to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U355	Thank you for this question, honourable Member, and thank you for the opportunity to clarify this issue. As a minister, I must be responsible for ensuring that ferry traffic between the continent and the islands takes place in autumn 2016, with no deterioration in its quality or any confusion. For the people who live on the islands, this is a vital service, so I don't think it's reasonable to play the lottery here and count on good luck. That's why I made a decision. When we talk about what the officials said was suggesting, the suggestions were very different and changed over time. I spoke to Deputy Chancellor Merike, Germany, who will be the new Chancellor. I asked him, because he was dealing with this issue in our house, whether he could guarantee that if the state is going to buy steaks now, it is guaranteed that in autumn 2016 we will have four ships. He said he couldn't afford it because the schedule was too tight. I would like to stress that we are in a situation where the winner who will build these roasts is not revealed, that is, there is not two years to build, but considerably less. 2.2 years is until the end of the period, or 1 October 2016. To think that procurement is not delayed would, as I said, be too optimistic, it would be a lottery that could ultimately cost the taxpayer several times as practice shows that procurement is being challenged. I hope that I can talk about the financial calculations by answering your next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U356	Siim Kiisler, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U357	Thank you. It would be very good if you would also introduce to the public the alternative calculations you probably had when you made a different decision. Unfortunately, there's no way to get to know them. So far, only those estimates have been submitted that your decision will cause the country EUR 80 million in damage. But here's my question. Your views have changed a lot over time. It's like the Port of Tallinn doesn't make it, and it's like it doesn't. Looks like today you're in such a mood that you'd rather not make it. But if you think so, why didn't you decide to extend the operation in its current form by, for example, one or two years, so how would you have thought it necessary? Why are you making such a bad decision for the country for ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U358	Thank you. When we talk about financial calculations, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs also confirm that all the figures that ex-Minister Parts has put forward are estimates. They are not based on offers or serious estimates; they are estimates. That's why I wouldn't juggle with numbers. Yes, I have said, and I will also say today, that a situation where in 20 years there has always been only one bidder in ferry procurement is not normal and I do not consider it right. I have said this all along, too, that it would have made sense if the state had acquired these barges. But I have always stressed that I must see what can be done in the time left, and then, in June, I will make a decision. So I haven't changed my mind in any way, these claims aren't true. How much savings can be made after procurement is open and the figures are on the table? Before that, it's all speculation. I am pleased that, for the first time in 20 years, there is the possibility that there will be several bidders in the autumn, competition and also pressure on providers. They all know there are other suppliers, and they put their best price on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U359	Siim Kiisler, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U360	Thank you. Let me get this straight. You said you didn't juggle with numbers. Don't you have some kind of calculation? What is the basis for your decision-making in this case? Who gives you advice? As we can see, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are not these advisors. So where do these proposals come from? You do not have any other estimates, you do not have any alternative estimates, you do not deal with figures, although I think the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications could still make numerical calculations. On what basis do you have these ideas, and who do you have these good advisors?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U361	Of course, I also have estimates. I would stress that they can only be estimates, until the moment when procurement is open and it is actually known what is being offered. Of course I have them. I can't juggle with them in turn, I don't think it's right, especially in a situation where the procurement is coming, because it'll all just be in the air. I can't talk about possible numbers, it wouldn't be right. My assessments and decisions are the result of various analyses carried out by officials in our house. Unfortunately, they say in the same way that the timely completion of ships is not guaranteed because of the delay in procurement. My advisor, Danel Tuusis, who has been working on this subject for months, has given me a very good summary as of 30 May. He strongly recommends not risking just one procurement, purchasing ships. If the procurement failed, the state would then be cornered and should agree with the current operator at whatever price. I want to avoid it. Let me just give you an example of the lengthening of procurements. There are currently two small ferry ships for the Kihnu and Vormsi routes under construction. The procurement was announced in the summer of 2011. As a result of the challenge, this process lasted a year and a half, then it was just under construction. These ships will be built for two years. This means that these two small barges will be ready next spring. That's the practice. It has nothing to do with emotions. Once again, I, as a minister, cannot make emotional decisions but must make pragmatic decisions which ultimately guarantee a high-quality service and savings for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U362	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Austet Minister! The previous Minister of Economic Affairs received an assignment from the Government of the Republic on 26 September 2013 to organise the purchase of four ferry ships via the Port of Tallinn of AS. Do you know what your predecessor did for six months until 26 March that not even the public procurement was announced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U364	Thank you for that question. I find it difficult to comment on exactly what my predecessor did. As an observer, I saw that he spent six months talking about the subject with a big mouth, but unfortunately there was nothing he could do. To accuse everyone else that there was no result is, to put it mildly, unconvincing. Finally, the Minister is responsible. If he did wrong calculations, wrong moves, then he's responsible. I've recently begun to think about this subject and about the accusations of Minister Parts at my address, why I don't announce the procurement he wanted to make nine months ago. I've remembered a cartoon of my childhood made in Soyuzmultifilm. The main character of this cartoon went around blaming everyone else for his troubles, and he kept asking who did it. Eventually, he had to admit that he did it himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U365	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U366	Thank you. Dear Minister, Indeed, the Minister of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance and his party associates have asked a number of questions here today in Question Time about why this has not been done. Minister Parts was in office for seven years. When he was convinced of this, he actually had all those years to deal with it. Why didn't he give a guide to the Port of Tallinn to buy these barges? The members of the Council were, as we know, expecting this kind of guidance. In the past, however, Minister Parts gave guidance to members of the Estonian Energy Council to invest in America, to invest in Auvere power plant and to stop burning biomass. He gave them both orally and in writing in quite a short time. Now it was nine months, but that guideline didn't come. Can you comment on the reasons why this guideline did not come? Didn't he think it was a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U367	Thank you. The questions you've just asked, I'm sure everything will come up, too. It's hard to make an estimate. The fact is that in the case of a matter as serious as the vital service, shipping between islands and between continents, decisions must not be taken at the last moment and lightly. You have to be very well prepared, and you have to start early. In fact, last autumn, when the government made this decision, looking back, it was a back time, if not to say that it was a critical time. Let's recall this example I brought about the construction of two small ferries for the Kihnu and Vormsi routes. It's been three and a half years. Last autumn, only three years were left until autumn 2016. In fact, such things should begin to be prepared four years before the deadline falls. It is malicious to say that there are now two years left, and everything is like a fingertip. I would really ask why he didn't do it if it was all so easy. Why didn't he do it, you should ask Juhan Parts. I have also thought that honourable parliamentarians can make inquiries to ministers, but if it were possible, I would present an inquiry to a respected parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U368	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U369	Thank you. Good minister! I do not feel very confident about these allegations that ships may not be ready in time and that we have no assurance that no one will challenge the procurement. It is hoped that there will now be several bidders. It may be, but in the case of such a procurement, it is often the case that another tenderer may be there simply to show that there is a choice among others. We heard here the claim that Juhan Parts has given no direction to anyone. As far as I know, the decisions of the Port of Tallinn Council have been taken and have passed on these guidelines. If someone has failed to comply with them or has been opposed to them, this is an issue of its own. This raises questions as to why this has been done. What information do you have about the decisions of the Port Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U370	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot make such decisions on the basis of feelings, I have to look at things pragmatically. I would do so by working in the private sector, and I will do so by working in the public sector. Emotions can't have a place here. When we talk about cooperation with the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn, when we simply look chronologically at what has happened, I see objective reasons why things were dragging. First, Minister Parts received a guideline from the Government of the Republic in September, but he passed on an order to the Council in December, three months later. Secondly, he did not do any preliminary work talking to the port council, although he could have done so in order to speed up the process. For example, I first spoke to the members of the Port Board and answered their questions, including the critical ones. We have reached an agreement, and I can count on the board and management of the port to work with me. It wasn't until after that I went to the government office and got a lead. Now we know that the process has gone quickly, the port council has said that it is involved in the procurement. So it's also important how things are done. Next, the Port Board raised very specific questions. They wondered what the rate of return on this possible contract was and whether it could not happen that it was State aid and what would happen if it were to happen as in the case of Estonian Air. These were all objective questions. On this point, Juhan Parts issued a regulation which, as if, had had to take these fears down and show that there was no state aid and that the agreement would be concluded. However, it was sued, she withdrew the order and so on. So there have been objective reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U371	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U372	The next questioner is Maimu Berg. It is a question of the Prime Minister's duties as Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U373	Thank you. I am going to ask this question to Prime Minister Urve Tiidu in the duties of the Minister of Culture, if that's all right. There was so much talk about ships and the sea. I would like to thank the Minister for having so far, as an islander, steered this ship of the Ministry of Culture, which has come to a rather stormy sea. The question concerns the fees paid to translators and writers in the Republic of Estonia. I believe that colleagues in the Riigikogu will be surprised that my colleagues and translators will receive a smaller fee for translating a 600-page novel or writing a 200-page novel than the average gross wage of two or three months. Are there any possible changes coming? Is there a higher level of remuneration to be expected? Is there somewhere that line, in addition to the cultural capital, which can help to improve these things? How much can be followed here, for example, in the Nordic countries and Germany, and what do you think of the writer's salary, which we have been talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U374	Thank you very much, Mrs Berg, for this question. It's quite a multifaceted subject. In fact, more specifically, we are talking about authors' and royalties and their payment to writers and translators. As is well known, cultural capital has been set up to carry out a number of tasks related to sport and culture, in particular, it has been set up to fund them, and its aim is to support art, folk culture, physical culture, etc. with financial resources, to raise funds for this purpose. One thing that cultural capital helps to fund is really writing literary works and also translating them. The Cultural Endowment itself does not pay the fees you call "honorars," but it pays the grant to legal persons who pay these fees, i.e. royalties and royalties. This year, the amendment of the Income Tax Act and possible tax issues have been more seriously on the agenda. I confirm that the cultural capital does not change its principles, but it does specify the content of all the grants paid, precisely in relation to the term scholarship. As regards the amount of money and the comparison of how much someone is paid, this depends on a number of factors. Perhaps the positive news is that funding for cultural capital will increase next year due to the actual increase in excise duties and gambling tax. But I'd love to continue if I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U375	Thank you. Does Maimu Berg have any more specific questions? No, it's not. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U376	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am asking you what I have also asked the previous ministers of culture, but the answer has remained either hanging in the air or unconfident. The Estonian Folk Culture Development and Training Centre has been on the edge of Lasnamäe for decades. Would it not be possible to find a better location for this institution? I propose Viljandi, where the centre of folk music and the cultural academy are located. Together, there would be greater synergy, and I dare say that it would certainly be cheaper for the country to do so financially. Are you ready to keep thinking about this? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U377	Mr Seeder, I fully understand your proposal. I understand that the regions must be fought for and that there must also be more state-funded institutions in the counties. Also, since you are proposing to take this centre from the edge of Lasnamäe to Viljandi, I fully understand. If there have been proposals in the past to change this location, I do not know which answers were given. After all, the centre of folk culture is not only an office for people who go to work there every morning and home from there every night, but it also brings together those who organise and administrate folk culture activities in counties, rural governments. As a proposal, I accept it, but this is certainly not my official response at the moment. I need to explore some history. I believe that, in terms of the harmonious regional development and progress of the Estonian state, it is important that these institutions are located in different counties, and it is very important that the ambassadors stand for it. You mentioned Viljandi, but there is definitely someone who says that Järvamaa is a good place. If this topic comes to the agenda and there is more public interest, then more can be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U378	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U379	Good Minister of Culture! Scholarships support not only athletes but also cultural figures, including writers. When you analyze the practice of cultural capital, you draw three patterns. In one case, clearly successful commercial authors who would be able to pay quite serious fees will be supported. Secondly, there are a number of people who have been on the scholarship list for several and several years, but whose works are relatively few to hear. Then there are a number of beginners, search, innovative authors who are wrong about this list once or twice. Is there a cultural political position in these scholarships and how to justify the payment of scholarships to commercially successful authors?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U380	Thank you, Mr Aaviksoo. Before I tell you any position, I will specify how cultural capital operates. Cultural activities are supported by eight foundations and two programmes. As far as writers are concerned, these decisions are made by the Literature Foundation. The foundations are known to be independent institutions, operated by councils. In these councils, there are people who know what's going on. Soviet members are quite often exchanged so that there is no custom of support. I can say that making decisions is not very easy. A balance must be found. Young talents must be given "wings" or initial support, but it cannot be said that the foundation only supports start-up authors or completely excludes writers whose works are not purchased in thousands of copies or who are initially not very popular. It's a fine art of balance. I don't think it's easy to be in that council. But I would like to mention that 36 writers now receive a scholarship of EUR 4600 a year, some still receive some two-year scholarships. It must be acknowledged that writers have more than financial capacity and that making decisions is difficult every time. But I will answer your question: it is certainly always possible to see new talents, and if someone notices them and knows that they are not supported as well as they could, then this can be signalled to the Foundation Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U381	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We'll try to answer in two minutes. Viktor Vassilyev, please! Learn from Viktor Vassilyev, who will ask the question within one minute, in exactly one second. Let's say the same thing. Learn! Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U382	Time's starting to run now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! Indeed, there are many people living out of fees or royalties. They're looking for where else to get a reward. Now we're talking about a possible future TV channel. The TV people I've been in contact with are also discussing whether there are going to be some great cultural programs or whether there's some other way to earn a reward. Has anyone ever told you there could be a cultural component, or is it just a propaganda project? Will there be any opportunity for creative people to earn more? Probably the most important question is whether you think it is a cultural or propaganda project.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U383	Thank you. Thank you for your comment. I'm trying to stay within the time frame now. Due to the explosive growth of information and technological developments, opportunities to earn more in TV media, various media outlets, cross media and elsewhere have increased. As regards the promotion of the information space, either by amplifying the current media, by giving them additional money, or by creating a new media outlet, the panel of experts who have been together has made its proposals. I would stress that no one is talking about the propaganda channel. Rather, it is said that the life, thoughts and dialogue of these people, as well as the creation and cultural life of people who live in different parts of Estonia, should be improved on TV or on the Internet. There are very different proposals. I know that the summary is almost put together and I think it will be on my desk today. I can tell you more about it later. There you go. I'm just gonna stop at it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U384	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U385	The next questioner is Ken-Mart Vaher. The question is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Urve Palo. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U386	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The ferry traffic between the mainland and Saaremaa has raised many questions. Unfortunately, this theme already smells so much that the smell has reached this hall and beyond. Meelis Atonen, founder of the Reform Party, said yesterday in the press that this topic is full of small lies and things have not been shown as they really are. Unfortunately, all of this has continued today in this Chamber, where it has been argued, for example, that the Port of Tallinn has not received a clear written order for the announcement of the purchase of ferry ships, even though this precept was already received on 8 November. But my first question concerns your views. On 7 June, you said that, with a thorough analysis of the subject, you can confirm that the ladies should belong to the state. On 13 June, however, your position was already different. Please tell me what happened in those six days! Which politicians and interest groups have, above all, influenced your decision, which has turned 180 degrees to the contrary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U387	Thank you for that question. There were a lot of false claims and accusations here, but I hope that this issue was still covered by the great concern of the MP, so that the ferry traffic could be maintained and that it would be reasonable for the country and of quality. I mean, I'm totally on the same boat as you guys. I have also taken the decisions that I have made in view of the fact that on 1 October 2016 a vital service between the continent and the islands would be guaranteed, at a good price, we would save taxpayers' money and the quality of the service would not suffer. These are the goals that have not allowed me to get into my emotions, and I have been able to make decisions carefully and pragmatically. I would like to emphasise once again: I have never said that I will definitely choose the option that we are buying the country right now by the barges. I have said that this is reasonable in the light that in 20 years there has been no competition, which is not a normal situation. I have always stressed that there is little time and that the decision I will be forced to make in that time will be announced as soon as possible. That's what I've done now. My decisions are based solely on pragmatic considerations. Don't look for any other forces here, please! The only pressure here is time pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U388	Ken-Marti Vaher, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U389	Thank you for your answer. I will move on from your observation that you are not making your decisions on the basis of emotions, but on the basis of rationality. However, you did not agree to disclose the calculations that contradict the claims of experts and auditors that if the state does not acquire ferry ships, we will suffer losses of at least EUR 60.70 million as taxpayers. Are you still of the opinion that ferries could belong to the state? Why, then, do you declare public procurement to find an operator for ten years? You would be able to extend the current agreement for a period of time, even for one year or at least for two years, if you are really afraid that it will not be possible to build the ferries within this period, although all experts and your ministry officials claim otherwise. Why do you find an operator for ten years and actually play sweet pie for one operator for ten years again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U390	For a minute, too, there were false claims. I don't know if I can disprove everything in two minutes, but at least I'll try. First of all, not all officials and experts say that in the remaining two years, it will be possible to purchase these roasts. Not by a long shot. Officials look at me and say they don't guarantee it, just like the specialists say. According to different estimates, shipbuilding will take up to one and a half years to three years. These are all informal estimates and cover only the time of construction, the calculation does not start from the moment the call for tenders is announced. So these claims are not true. When we talk about numbers, I say once again that at the moment, the main focus isn't in the debate about whether we stick together either way or at the same time. The main focus is to guarantee a reasonably priced service in two years' time. That's what I have to ensure. All the figures you are talking about, I emphasise once again, are speculative. It makes no sense for me to submit other speculative figures in response, because the actual situation is clear only when it is officially offered, how much is the construction of four barges, how quickly it is done, what are operating and chartering services, etc. So all those things that are in the air now, according to the officials, are simply estimates. That's what you can check with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There are no solid calculations. Yes, I also think today that it would be reasonable for a country to have steaks. It is therefore stipulated that the procurement provides for the possibility for the State to buy out the barges in ten years' time. Participants in the procurement process are already taking into account its price. Why don't I make a buy in a short time? First of all, how do you know that an existing operator agrees with a shorter time frame? Secondly, what will the price be when the country is cornered and the agreement has to be extended for a few years as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U391	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ken-Marti Vaher, second point for clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U392	Minister, thank you very much. I understand that your situation is not easy, you must speak against yourself, contrary to your views on what you had in previous months. I'm sure you've been arguing in the coalition with members of the Reform Party who have forced you to do what you're doing today. I understand that your situation is not easy. Now you're gonna have to explain everything that makes up a very big mess. I'll ask you again, though. In one of your replies, you claimed that you have been very nice in contact with the members of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn, received an answer from them and tried to explain things. But your only answer to the question why, in the light of your fears, you are not trying to extend the current agreement by a year or two and to prevent the taxpayer from causing the damage resulting from the 10-year agreement, your only objection is a question to me from which I take that the operator agrees. But have you asked him? I repeat this question: why did you take a decision and also presented it to the Cabinet, that the current situation would be linked to the operator agreement for ten years and that there would be a loss of EUR 60 to 70 million. These are estimates of...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U393	Ken-Marti Vaher, thank you! Time's long gone. Learn from Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U394	Why haven't you chosen another way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U395	I think it was already a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U396	Thank you. Yeah, it's a tough situation. This decision, too, did not come lightly. This came as a result of a very serious discussion, analysis and reflection when I had put together all the information I had. That is also the answer to the question why I made that decision. That is why I did that, when the operator service is procured for ten years, with the possibility of finally buying out the barges to the state, it guarantees that in two years' time the barges will move, and it guarantees that competition between the bidders will be created, as the Port of Tallinn has also received this task. My only calculation was based on the fact that the service would be guaranteed and the price pressure on the providers would be there, so they would know that they are offering the Port of Tallinn and the current operator, but perhaps another third or fourth. In any case, the Ministry is working to increase the number of bidders. We invite the tenderers to participate in the procurement so that everyone in the back of the head feels that they are not the only ones. We're doing this with the aim of saving money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U397	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U398	Thank you. Good minister! I understand you're in a very difficult situation. Your predecessor, who was in office for seven years, began to deal with what he called a problem only in the last few months of his term of office. The idea of saving an estimated EUR 60 to 70 million a year dates back to 2004, when Minister Meelis Atonen was already dealing with this problem. I ask you once again how you judge your predecessor's work. He received a guide from the government office to obtain the country's barges, then three months later, only then he submitted a guide to the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn, the initial legal protection was applied, and after that nothing happened. Really, I'm sorry, you're in a very difficult situation. But can you make some kind of assessment of your predecessor's inaction to address this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U399	Thank you. I can only rely on facts. The facts are that by April this year no ferry purchase had been announced, even though the government had issued such an order in September of last year. This procurement was the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who failed to carry out this task. Why he started it so late in the first place is a separate question. The question of why he couldn't do it must be answered by him. But it is regrettable that he did not make it, and so much time has been spent, that I no longer had the opportunity to make another decision in resolving the matter sensibly. If I wanted to make a decision based on emotions and be popular for a moment, I would have decided otherwise, but I didn't think it was right. I knew that the expectations of society were such that we would start buying steaks, because the previous minister had so much to talk about this and the huge sums of money. In fact, these calculations are very old, they are based on very high prices based on the contractual prices of the moment, and good faith has been calculated so that ships can be built at such and such prices. These are all estimates, which is why I have always stressed that I am not bringing in new figures. I could get different numbers, but they're also estimates, they're smaller numbers, but they're estimates. On the basis of logic, certain savings are possible due to the depreciation period, but in fact we do not know what offers are made by potential operators in the autumn. Perhaps depreciation is also calculated over a period of more than 10 years. We will only see it in the autumn and then we will be able to talk about the facts, not evaluate them. We should give less judgment, base ourselves on less emotions and more on facts, and make rational decisions that are ultimately the most appropriate for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U400	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U401	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. On reform party questions about the Parts, I would like to ask how, for seven years, they held such an incompetent minister in office. But I'm going to ask you about a slightly different subject, even though the same ferry theme would continue. The Port of Tallinn is most likely to participate in the procurement of the operator. I read a headline from the Postman that quoted you. You said there that when the Port of Tallinn participates in this procurement, it will most likely win. How can you, as a minister, say before the call for competition, without knowing the volume of the procurement, the deadlines and everything else that one or the other party is likely to win? I very much hope that this had been said by accident, or that the journalist had misjudged it. Maybe you'll comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U402	Thank you. It's true I can't guarantee such a thing. That's not the point. The aim is to create a situation where market prices are offered and there are no monopolies. Who offers a better price, whether the Port of Tallinn, the current operator service provider, someone third or fourth, I really don't know or will ever know. This argument has indeed been taken out of context. I don't even remember saying that. Perhaps in the course of the talk I have estimated that there is a high likelihood that the Port of Tallinn might also win this procurement. This was said rather in this context. There's just the probability that someone else will win.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U403	Thank you to the ministers, thank you to the questioners. I'm sorry about Kalev Eagle, Siim Kisler and Erki Arrow! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U404	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the resignation of the members of the Riigikogu, Andre Sepp and Kalev Kallemets became members of the Riigikogu today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U405	Next, we must listen to Kalev Kallemets' oath of office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U406	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U407	Now that 101 members of the Riigikogu have been sworn, it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U408	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee of Inquiry of the VEB Foundation of the Riigikogu collected a large number of materials for the preparation of the report, held 40 sessions and interviewed 49 persons, accompanied by experts from the Estonian Forensic Institute and the legal field for the examination of documents. In order to achieve its objective, the Commission worked with the National Audit Office, which carried out a parallel audit on the VEB Fund. I will give you three brief conclusions as an example. First of all, Eesti Pank's letter with false information for 1995 is the result of the planned activities, this letter is not a forgery and bears the signature of the then acting Governor of Eesti Pank, Vahur Kraft. Secondly, to realise the certificates for Eesti Pank itself and the narrow circle of creditors through TSL International, it was not in line with the tasks assigned to the VEB Fund and Eesti Pank to find a solution and neglect other certificate holders. Third, TSL International, led by Aleksandr Matt, received the money with the help of Eesti Pank and the then leaders of North-Estonian Bank. Here I thank the National Audit Office and the Estonian Forensic Institute, legal scientist Lasse Lehist, Eesti Pank and AS SEB Pank for their good cooperation. In addition to the special thanks to our vice-chairman Väino Linde and members Marko Pomerants, Aivar Riisalu and Andres Anvelt and his alternate Neeme Suur! Thank you, of course, also to the good officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu! The committee of inquiry to determine the circumstances of the vEB Fund's pooled claims has completed its work. I'm handing over our final report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U409	There are no further requests to submit drafts or requests for information. Honourable... I'm sorry! Kaia Iva.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U410	Thank you. I have a procedural question. We had a very heated debate on the Public Transport Act yesterday and a series of questions were asked. A meaningful and nice question was put by my colleague, Kalle Palling, who declared that he was a member of the Riigikogu last day. Now I don't see his alternate here. Does the President specify whether Kalle Palling is still a member of the Riigikogu for our great joy, or is he no longer a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U411	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! If you have any procedural problems, discuss them in the cafeteria, but don't disturb the manager! I have a more important message for you. We have agreed here that we will try to make notifications in writing, but some messages will probably need to be given orally. In accordance with § 68 of the Constitution and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of 23 members of the Riigikogu, has called the Chamber of the Chamber of Toompea Castle at 10 a.m. on 20 June 2014 of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. On the agenda of this session, items on the agenda of the 18th working week of the VII plenary session, but not yet discussed during this working week, have been placed on the agenda, on the basis of a proposal from the proposers. The session shall continue until the agenda is exhausted. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. The following details are given on today's agenda: At the debate on item 9, the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Centre Party Group at first reading, Eldar Efendiev will make a presentation by the initiators. During the discussion of item 24, draft decision No 658 of the Riigikogu initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union at first reading, Urmas Reinsalu, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation of the initiators. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U412	Thank you, Mr President. A procedural question. The agenda, which is on my desk right now, as is the case, does not correspond to the numbers you mentioned. Please arrange paper for our tables that corresponds to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U413	I'll be more specific. The President of the Riigikogu must have been wrong. The agenda on your desk is item number 10, which is the first reading of draft 645. Please delete Yana Toomi's name and write Eldar Efendiev's name in its place. First reading of Bill 658 is agenda item 15 on Wednesday, and I would like to ask Urmas Reinsalu to write as rapporteur for the initiators, and there are no names in it at this time. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U414	Thank you, Mr President. I will continue with the question of my good colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu must have a proper weekly agenda available. What is on our tables certainly does not correspond to what Parliament will be discussing the next two days. For example, at the meeting on Thursday, 19 June, on our agenda, there are a fourth item on the agenda, the debate on the draft law on the status of a member of the Riigikogu initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission has proposed to exclude it from the agenda, but it still exists on our agenda. Please take the chairman's break and arrange for members of the Riigikogu to receive a agenda that corresponds to the work of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U415	Is there anyone else besides Priit Toobal who's lost his agenda? Let's hear it all out. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U416	Thank you, good manager. You quoted another agenda earlier. Here's the question. If you were wrong, what agenda did you quote, next week's agenda or anything earlier? What are you working for now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U417	Thank you. Very good question, Sven Sester. I've been quoting this week's agenda. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U418	Thank you. A procedural question. Is it Wednesday or Tuesday, and if it is Wednesday, why do we have a Tuesday agenda on the tables?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U419	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin! The answer to the question is that it is Wednesday. The answer to the unsubmitted question is that yesterday was Tuesday. The agenda on your desk was brought there on Monday. Any more procedural questions? Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U420	Thank you, Mr President. We have been given the agenda, according to which on Wednesday, 18 June, we will discuss as the first draft the draft law amending the Constitutional Committee's Election Act and other laws 617. Does this correspond to the actual situation? If you don't answer, I'm asking you to give us a agenda that corresponds to the actual situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U421	This agenda, which has been distributed to your desks, corresponds to the agenda fixed on Monday. Since yesterday the discussion on the items on the agenda was not completed by Tuesday, it will be continued where yesterday did not go. This is what the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act says. The Bureau did not take the opportunity to change these points. Since last week the relocation found opposition from the members of the Riigikogu, we took this into account and did not re-emphasise these points. Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U422	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Let me get this straight. If it's Wednesday, yesterday was Tuesday, and the day before yesterday was Monday, then tomorrow is Thursday?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U423	That's a good idea, even though they didn't ask me. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You didn't answer my question. The committee has proposed to exclude the fourth item from the Thursday agenda, but we have a agenda on the table where the discussion of the draft law amending the status of a member of the Riigikogu and other laws is written. The Commission proposed to remove it from the agenda, but it is on the table. How do members of the Riigikogu have to behave if they do not know whether this debate is on the agenda or is excluded? Please take into account my proposal that the President take a break. The confusion would be eliminated if new agendas were given to the MPs, which are realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U425	On Monday, the Riigikogu removed this item from the agenda. Are there any other delegates besides Priit Toobal, who's making a mess of it? There are other people like this. Mr. Riisalu is confused. Who else? Mr. Vaarmann. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U426	The President of the Riigikogu! There is a law on home and working procedures, but there is also good practice. For years, it has been good practice that, if agenda items have not been discussed on any day, we have found a agenda on the table on the next day, with the correct dates and the correct order of items. Is it really that hard to do that? Is it necessary to waste time simply pushing our desire through instead of taking a break and giving us the right agenda, as Mr Toobal asked? The agenda is very long. I mean, if there's one document on this table, it could be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U427	There was no question, I shouldn't answer it, but I want to say that there is an elementary courtesy. If the MPs Toobal, Vaarmann and Riisalu do not understand what is on the agenda, there is nothing left but that the Chairman of the Riigikogu is taking a seven-minute break for this only reason, and during this period a new agenda will be brought to all members of the Riigikogu. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U428	Thank you for this opportunity. I have a procedural announcement that we have reached an e-state and an e-age. Everyone will be able to press the Menu button on their screen and find today's agenda that corresponds exactly to what is planned today. It also says today is the 18th. Everything is a reality. In short, if you can press a button on the screen, you will find the agenda. Maybe we'll leave the trees growing in the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U429	The Head of the Riigikogu takes a seven-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U430	Honourable Riigikogu! I hope that now all the ambassadors who got mixed up before the agenda have been cleared up. There's only one in the hall right now. I hope everything's clear. Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U431	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm gonna ask you a procedural question like this. I don't know how the Rules of Procedure are supposed to behave like this. In the meantime, the voters contacted me and asked why it was not possible to watch a live broadcast from the Riigikogu hall on the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U432	I can't answer that question, it's being investigated, and you'll be informed. I guess you can watch.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U433	We will continue to work on the points on the agenda. Yesterday, an item on your newly distributed pages was unfinished: Wednesday, 18 June, the continuation of the second reading of Bill 404 of the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Yesterday, the debate remained at the speeches, but the Government of the Republic as the initiator of the draft has announced that it will withdraw draft 404 of the Riigikogu proceedings. According to § 95 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the draft therefore falls out of the procedure. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U434	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Government of the Republic has this right, but we also want to know the protocol and the reasons why the Government of the Republic is doing this. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U435	I'm sure you'll get a copy of this letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U436	Let's continue. The next item is the report on the activities of the Chancellor of Justice in 2013. Please, Chancellor Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 143 of the Constitution, the Chancellor of Justice gives an annual overview of how the Riigikogu and the Government have complied with the Constitution. So do I now. Recently, it has become common practice in our society to criticise Parliament's activities and work. The criticism forgets the complexity of the legislator's work and the frequent recognition of its positive results. It is difficult to decide the weighty issues that shape Estonia's life every day, and it is inevitable that decisions must also be made from time to time, which may not be pleasant for all groups of society, but are necessary for some big goals. Thank you for being on the right track and taking a lot of weighty decisions for society. In recent times, I particularly recognise the legislative amendment adopted in June, which facilitates the application for citizenship for young people who, despite their lack of a residence permit, have been living in Estonia on a permanent basis, in a simple way, young people without a residence permit will be able to acquire citizenship more easily. This is not just a minor improvement, but a really important step, I think. I am of the opinion that this is humane, but it also contributes to strengthening constitutional order. As we know, it is the duty of an Estonian citizen to be loyal to the constitutional order and to defend Estonia's independence. Right and money. At the beginning of my term of office, in 2008, the economic crisis began. When economic development slows down, complex and unpopular decisions need to be taken frequently. In times of crisis, the legislator is much more difficult to be than in times of economic boom. Therefore, both you and your predecessors have had a very difficult time and it will continue. No new economic boom is foreseen to be decided on the basis of the Spring Economic Forecast of the Ministry of Finance. The legislator must therefore continue to make very complex decisions: it must ensure that there is sufficient money in the public purse to finance all social expenditure, while ensuring that those who bring in the money do not get too much blow from the planned changes in the tax and economic environment. It may be noted that the statements received relate either directly or indirectly to money. I note that social expenditure in Estonia is significant. I will use the National Audit Office's overview of the use and disposal of state assets 2012. In 2006: 'The largest share of fixed expenditure is social expenditure, i.e. expenditure on pensions, health insurance, family allowances, etc., which is already almost half of the state budget. However, the rapid increase in social expenditure and the high proportion of the state budget have not led to a significant increase in pensions or to improved access to health care. 'The growth in social expenditure for the coming year will be significantly increased by the planned increases in child benefits. The Chancellor of Justice is not an entrepreneur; he does not produce money. However, justice must also have a material covering. Paying attention to the welfare of children is a right and noble idea. However, when dealing with one problem, we must not forget the others. Perhaps every promise must have a financial cover and must also take into account the people who are helping to fill the Treasury. If the business environment is unduly deteriorating, we will not have those who are helping to make money for the social budget in the long term. The legislator must therefore be a true balancer. It is very important for businesses to have a sound legal order. There can be no credibility without the possibility of relying on a commitment made unambiguously by the State. Let us begin by maintaining the legislator's ability to make political choices. The rapidly evolving events of recent years have shown, in particular, that the legislator and the government sometimes need to change previous decisions in order to adapt to the situation. According to the Constitution, this is not impossible, so the principle of legitimate expectations in critical situations must be interpreted narrowly. The protected area of this principle is not all changes in the legal order that may affect a person. In some cases, however, a law or regulation is adopted which cannot be interpreted in any way other than an unambiguous promise. This was the case, for example, for environmental charges, so-called mining fees. When such a clear term commitment is suddenly changed in a harmful direction for businesses, their resentment is understandable. In the event of an unambiguous breach of the promise, it seriously undermines the credibility of the legal order and increases the uncertainty of businesses, which in turn hampers economic development. So there is no rational or constitutional action. In that case, the Chancellor of Justice must also act in such a way as to show that the Constitution works. Besides defending the rule of law, it gives people faith and confidence and allows people to reduce bitterness because power does what it wants. It strengthens the foundation of society. In this case, we will show that the Constitution works even if there are large sums and complex choices involved. To conclude this part, I stress that the desire to obtain budget money quickly cannot go beyond the need to maintain the credibility of state authority, all the more so since, in the long term, it is the credibility of the state that guarantees a sound business environment and, therefore, the growth of budgetary money. In this sense, declaring a regulation unconstitutional in the Supreme Court cannot in any way be regarded as a loss of government. Rather, it is an important step in the area of constitutional restrictions, which guarantees not only the business environment, but more generally the rule of law of Estonia as a whole. With regard to the reliability of the rules, it is also important that the legislator itself treats judgments with respect and seriousness. I would like to repeat what Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, said: 'It is very important that the legislator and executive power also comply with the judgments. " As Mr Pikamäe pointed out, the legislator is very weak in enforcing judgments. There's a case I took to court that scratches me. There is still no new set of rules on the remuneration for the handling of technical networks and installations. I consider it unacceptable that the legislator has left the landowners and businesses here in the mess of disputes between themselves. The consequence is that 10000 forest owners will not receive any appropriate compensation for damaged forest land. This failure by the legislator increases distrust of the legislator and the legal order. But at the same time we love the law, we're a judicial nation. Now I'm talking about money more widely, but shorter. Over the years, there has been a lot of talk in Parliament about money when discussing the annual budget. In essence, the State Budget Act is one of the most important laws. Our country's budget is small compared to the budgets of the large countries, just about eight billion. We can argue endlessly, but it is clear that we want a fair and fair distribution of money. It is inevitable that sharing money will create tensions and emotions. But let us look to other European countries. The question may arise as to whether money is more important than the Constitution, the principles of justice. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves stated at the Lennart Meri conference that Europe tends to make political decisions on financial grounds: 'It is not ideology, it is money. There's not enough talk about the soft power of money. It's an elephant in a room we don't want to admit. " That is what Ilves said about the West's sanctions against Russia's aggression. He added that, strangely enough, the countries that are not really economically dependent on Russia have taken a lukewarm view of strong economic sanctions and referred to the problem in the UK that there is no suggestion of sacrificing anything in the London business sector. Does the Republic of Estonia speak only of money and the right is retreating? Do we have the power of justice, or is money the only thing that dominates? I hope and am convinced that, of course, I do not want to close my eyes either, that the right must pay. I hope that the right provision of the Constitution is not a facade. The right must not be deformed. But it's been done in history. Unfortunately, money and physical power are dominating. We are not naives and we have consensually used public money to strengthen security. So we can look to the future calmly and joyfully. The world isn't just about money. Constitution, morality, and faith are important. The latter, too, have full constitutional implications. As an example, I will mention the case when the publisher questioned whether it was constitutional to require conscripts to make a vow. In the past, the Chancellor of Justice had taken the view that, under the Defence Forces Service Act in force until 31 March 2013, it was not mandatory for conscripts to make a vow. However, after an in-depth analysis and procedure, I came to the conclusion that under the Defence Forces Service Act, which entered into force on 1 April 2013, a conscript was required to make a vow and this obligation was in accordance with the Constitution. At the same time, the oath is much wider and more serious: according to § 54 of the Constitution, Estonia's independence is protected. Finally. Estonia is an everlasting and democratic state. Foreigners ruled in Estonia for about 700 years, but their footprints have now disappeared from here and, for example, the Toompea Knight's Building is ours, the Parliament's. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U438	Thank you very much, Chancellor. You have a lot of questions. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U439	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In a brief review of your activities, you will make it clear that at the end of last year, the Supreme Court settled two important cases that you initiated. The judgment of the Supreme Court, which declared the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies unconstitutional, is of great significance and confirms precisely those principles that you mentioned in the speech last year. In a brief review of your activities, you say that the case of restrictions on establishment clearly showed that there are limits to the decision-making power of the legislator. At the same time, we know that the legislator's majority votes, although knowing that this was an anti-constitutional decision, imposed these restrictions again and were announced by the President. How can we solve the problem that everyone is acting unconstitutionally, but that is why nothing happens in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U440	Thank you! I have not dealt with this because this procedure is going on again. But there is a problem. There is a proposal No 28, and if the honourable Parliament decides, then there is also the right to refer the matter to the Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U441	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U442	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your review, you have discussed a case where the publisher has thought that the Constitution precludes a situation where excise duty-free imports of fuel from a third country into Estonia can only be made once a month. You have found that there is no conflict with the Constitution, but you have beside it, I also remember from the time of the law processing here in the Riigikogu, that this regulation is not quite right, that the tax authorities could have more discretion and could allow more fuel to be brought here. However, the tax authorities themselves have not wanted this right, the law works, the border queues have decreased and the share of contraband has also decreased. How do you view this problem now? Is this limitation and regulation appropriate, or do we still have to consider changing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U443	If I remember correctly, this problem is about to resolve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U444	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U445	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! In your review, you report that the current Child Protection Act dates back to 1992 and last year the Ministry of Social Affairs submitted a new draft Child Protection Act to the coordination. Looking at 2013 and the number of visits and their content on the subject of children, what does all this show? Has the situation got worse, or is it going for the better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U446	I can say that as a general rule, it has been getting better all along. It's gonna take a while, but things have gotten better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U447	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U448	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As you certainly know, we have a very passionate draft law on cohabitation in the proceedings. Can you comment on the extent to which it is compatible with the current Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U449	I'm not really doing that right now, but basically the Chancellor of Justice is analyzing the law after he's passed. I made a letter of formal notice in 2011, that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U450	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U451	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question partly coincides with the questioner's. Indeed, in May 2011, you sent the Ministry of Justice an opinion that, in the current situation, couples of the same sex are not guaranteed adequate legal protection. Today we will hopefully arrive at the beginning of the first reading of the draft law on partnership initiated by 40 MPs. Have you read this bill? Do you consider that the regulation that the bill provides for is sufficient to solve this problem? The passion that members of the Riigikogu should be opposed to this law is really heated enough. But I want to know your judgment. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U452	Thank you! I haven't done my analysis yet. However, yes, I made a letter of formal notice on 23 May 2011. This was so peaceful and reasonable: 'I believe that a permanent partnership between same-sex persons falls within the area of protection of fundamental family rights, which is why it is contrary to the constitution to have such a partnership legally unregulated. Therefore, in line with the principle of fundamental rights, it is necessary to establish an appropriate legal framework for regulating such legal relationships. ' I also applied § 27 of the Constitution here, which is quite wide. However, I am not dealing with this issue now, while Parliament itself is taking a decision on it. Indeed, there are a lot of emotions, but this is a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U453	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U454	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question concerns the issue of local governments. You will write in the review: 'Some parties are unable to fill the positions of specialists in different fields until there is no rural municipality or city secretary. ' Pulling the parallel, I can say that I cannot imagine how the state could function without the Secretary of State. You also say: "There is serious doubt as to whether the tasks assigned to the local government and the capacity to perform them are balanced. " Who has this serious doubt, do you or do you feel that others are doubting it? This problem has not lasted for years, but for decades. Can this be solved only by increasing the revenue base and funding, or do more serious steps need to be taken here? What is the opinion and proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on the problem that has been going on for decades?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U455	Thank you! In 2011, I proposed another reform of some kind of local authorities. But they don't want it, they don't want it. There are all kinds of problems right now. We deal, we deal, we deal with them, but can we make it? Unfortunately, we cannot deal with all the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U456	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U457	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! By letter No 6-1 of 27 May 2014, the Chancellor of Justice announces that he is closely following the procedure of the Cohabitation Act in the Riigikogu and has not identified a conflict with the Constitution there. I recall that this draft has been drawn up on the basis of the Chancellor of Justice's own statements, which he has submitted to both the Riigikogu and the Minister of Justice. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice writes: 'I note, however, that I question whether the adoption of the Cohabitation Act is sufficient to regulate the legal issues of family life between persons living in a factual partnership. ' What exactly do you mean? Should the Cohabitation Act apply automatically or in what sense is it not sufficient? You did not find any contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U458	Thank you for your question. Shouldn't that be enough? That's right. But I think Parliament will decide. After that, I'll analyze and look.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U459	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U460	Thank you, good manager. Good Chancellor of Justice! You write in the review that there have been situations in your practice where local authorities cannot guarantee fundamental rights for people due to lack of money and you have said that local authorities could start accession negotiations. How do you think the Riigikogu could contribute to the accession negotiations of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U461	I don't have any better recipes, I'm just suggesting. But if they don't want it, they don't want it. The fact that there is no money is a fact, there is no money. But the suggestion is just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U462	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U463	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! You're a children's ombudsman now, too. In the past year-and-a-half, such a trend has been observed in the social policy field, and this guideline has actually come from some state institutions, that the child's best place to grow is in his family, which is also right. At the same time, there are families who are in a difficult situation or who have not managed to raise their children. However, the case law has become such that, even in obvious cases where parental rights should be removed and the child should be transferred to an institution or family of care, these decisions are being made less and less and so-called attempts are being made to return the child back to the same violent or inexorable family. Has your supervision noticed the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U464	Yeah, we'll check it out. This is a very important subject. For example, I have written an overview of the profile that children's rights are the most important. That's the subject we're following all the time. A person must have an unviolent childhood. It's important. That's what we do all the time because there's always trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U465	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U466	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the analysis you carried out on the payment of the birth grant in Haapsalu. You say on pages 46 and 47 of your review that you did not question the fact that Haapsalu required a population register to pay birth grant, but that Haapsalu also demanded that a person actually live in Haapsalu. You have established that this is not contrary to the Constitution. How do you think it will be established that a person actually lives in Haapsalu, and can such an identification still not be contrary to the Constitution? After all, this would require certain actions relating to human intervention in private life and would also require that someone should, either by court permission or by other means, check that the person is staying in that place of residence. But does he have to be there for 360 days or 60 days? How does your conclusion relate to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U467	Yeah, that's what we're doing this year. Let's see what kind of proposition or memo comes up. It's upstairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U468	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U469	Thank you very much for an interesting presentation, good speaker. In October, before the local council elections, you made a public appeal to support greater involvement of children in the organisation of local life. You have justified your position in such a way that children who make up almost a fifth of the Estonian population do not have the right to vote, but have different needs and opportunities. The same arguments justify lowering the age of selection to 16 years. Do you think that politics would turn more towards children and young people if the elections were lowered and more young people could come to the ballot boxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U470	The question is whether to change the Constitution or not. We should take a long look at whether that makes sense. There are pros and cons here. Hard to say, maybe that makes sense, maybe not. But what would be the constitutional issue? That would be rather complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U471	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U472	Thank you! Your Honor, Chancellor! Our constitutional oversight system has been operating for about 20 years and there have been some developments during that period. For example, last year the President of the Republic did not submit any requests for constitutional review; the Chancellor of Justice was relatively modest and the majority of constitutional review cases came from the judicial system itself. Recently, the President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, raised a problem before the Riigikogu, whether it would not be possible to extend the circle of applicants and give the parliamentary group or opposition the right to seek judicial supervision of constitutionality. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U473	Thank you! That's a really interesting question. If there is any serious constitutional problem, there are pros and cons here. At the same time, however, I simply do not know whether, for example, a great many and very different things are being moved outside the Constitutional Review College. This is the point of weighing. It's a little political, too. It's a place to ask, but it's an interesting idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U474	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U475	Thank you, manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! Where do you think the solution is for the state to comply with decisions taken by the Supreme Court? As far as I know, three decisions have not been taken: decisions on financing of local authorities, fees for the handling of technical installations and restrictions on the establishment of a pharmacy. Can a common citizen take the example here and also refrain from enforcing Supreme Court or court decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U476	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! I'll take a look at your brief summary. The question is about legitimate expectations and their possible interpretation. As a matter of fact, as far as I've been able to monitor your actions, I've noticed certain fluctuations in the interpretation of legitimate expectations. Here you are very laconic and I fully understand your argument. The principle that legitimate expectations do not imply any fossilization is correct. A specific example, when we met in the group, we asked about this about the maternity pension. This is related to a very deep problem in the development of Estonia, i.e. population processes, not to mention certain fundamental values, raising children and evaluating them. Now the government has submitted a draft which provides for a basic amendment...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U477	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U478	Please assess whether a change in principle in such a short period of time is in line with the principle of legitimate expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U479	Thank you! Here's what I'm gonna say. The Supreme Court has said that any disappointment caused by a change in the regulation that is favourable to a person does not constitute an obstacle to legitimate expectations. I can also say that I have always been more conservative. In fact, if this legitimate expectation were very rigid, then reforms could not take place at all, they would not be possible. It's important. The Supreme Court has also brought it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U480	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U481	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Your Honor, Chancellor! § 154 of the Constitution says that all issues of local life are decided independently by local authorities. This means that they have autonomy in relation to the central government. This same paragraph also speaks of financial autonomy. Over the last five to six years, I have observed that I believe that the central government has violated this autonomy, especially financial autonomy, towards local authorities. One example is the abolition of some local taxes, the attempt to muzzle the local government's media and to assign tasks to local governments without giving them the means to do so, and local authorities are prevented from organising waste management. Now I've heard that the IRL has a proposal to abolish another local tax. It's like there's no end. Do you think such a tendency is a problem, too, or does it just seem to me that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U482	Thank you! Estonia has 1.3 million inhabitants, which is very few. The question is also that the budget is being made here and there is not much money in local governments. Money can be moved back and forth, but is that the most reasonable thing? I think the money's still moving in one place, too, it's important. As I proposed in 2011, a reform could be carried out, but it has not been wanted. Since people don't want it, politicians don't want it, and it's not coming. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U483	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U484	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I, too, deeply deplore that even the legislator does not comply with the decisions of the Supreme Court. How can we interpret it? After all, the rule of law does not work in any part of this case. Do you think that, in this case, if it does not work, there is a political lack of culture or a lack of regulation? Something should be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U485	Thank you. It's important. It is also a moral issue, for such an attitude can disintegrate all things. If we still accept the law, whether we like it or not, it is important. But I mentioned it's also a moral issue, whether you accept it or not. We're lawmen, we've been lawmen all along. The law exists, the judge has decided and so it is. It's a moral issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U486	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U487	Thank you. We know that according to the Constitution, everyone in Estonia has the right to medical care. At the same time, we see huge long queues, and there are increasing numbers of people who, because they have not gotten to the doctor, are in a life - threatening situation or are even more saddened by the consequences. As we know, this has happened very much in the case of oncological diseases. However, there is a regulation that says that the first time a person contacts a health care facility, he or she should be put on a waiting list and told when to see a doctor. But we don't respond and queue order, people are forced to call for weeks, and they don't get to see a doctor. Both this regulation and getting a doctor's appointment, how do you assess all this from a constitutional point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U488	This is a difficult issue, because social science is extremely important. If there isn't enough money, let's say if it's the circum of 50% of what you need, then that's the problem. I don't have a good solution. You might say yes, you have to have the law, but you have to have a cover for it. If there's no cover, it's very bad. I don't have a good solution here, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U489	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your review and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Jaak Aaviksoo, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U490	Good President! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I think that many people in Estonia, as well as here in the Riigikogu Hall, are pleased that we have an institution that, on its own and with sufficient wisdom, looks at the progress of our lives and makes relevant comments based on the constitution and laws. Despite the difficulties that the Chancellor of Justice referred to in his speech, he can actually influence all other authorities, including the legislator. Yes, I know and the Chancellor of Justice, in a voice of certain sadness, indicated that he, but at times also the Supreme Court, has not been able to influence the legislator in a number of matters to such an extent that it can be satisfied not only on a formal basis but also on the basis of constitutional values, not only from the viewpoint of the state institutions and officials, but also from the expectations of the people. I would therefore like to support this approach, which the Chancellor of Justice has represented, that at the moment when he feels that the scale is full, he is not only based on the meaning of the law, including the letter of the Constitution, but also on the meaning of the law and public expectations, or he is active in wanting to change attitudes, positions, principles, approaches that other authorities may not care so much about sometimes concentrating too much on political topicality. However, apart from the issues that the Chancellor of Justice has addressed in his presentation and in the course of his recent years, I believe that some questions deserve even greater, stronger, more active and perhaps more ambitious attention. I will start by positivising, entanglement to the letter and word, sentence and norm, compared to the values that those who formulate these sentences, particularly here in the Riigikogu, have thought or wanted to write down. Perhaps this has sometimes not been the best, and therefore a rather worrying attitude in society is spreading towards the so-called 'legal-on-all-correct approach'. That is why it is extremely sympathetic that the Chancellor of Justice, in my better understanding and knowledge, has never been entangled in the twists of the norm, relying to such an extent that the thought is lost. It would be extremely nice if this approach were more broad-based and went beyond the institution of the Chancellor of Justice. In my better understanding, this could be reflected in public opinion, in the judicial system, but in many cases also in political theories and, in particular, in practice. Too often, we actually slip out of the reach of the public, hiding behind the impotence of a legal standard. The other subject was touched on a few times, but it may not have sounded as much as it could have. The organisation of our local government is unacceptable in conflict with the principle of constitutional principles and the balance of rights and obligations arising from them. It is incomprehensible why repeated focussing on such a conflict cannot influence the political process and, indeed, the public opinion on which such a political stance is based, to the extent that we can understand that it is one of the biggest brakes of Estonian development, both at national and, in particular, regional level. The de facto failure of local authorities to guarantee constitutional rights to all persons residing in their administrative territory is a problem which must not be overlooked, even if it is economically beneficial to any political force. That is why I want to enroll in the ranks of those people who, while currently feeling powerless, believe that substantive work in this direction will once bear fruit, Parliament will bring together its wisdom and strength and decide how to proceed. There is also one positive aspect to all of this: the longer we cannot decide, the more likely it is that when life forces us to decide, we will make more radical and more forward-looking decisions if we were to take these decisions simply to mislead the public in the face of political compromises. In short, there is one more point. I have thought a lot about how our rights and responsibilities are balanced according to the constitution. I therefore hope that the Chancellor of Justice, more than he has done so far, will pay attention not only to guaranteeing rights but also to the compulsory nature of obligations, because without a balance of rights and obligations, no one's rights can be guaranteed in the long term. Now it's quite the end. Everything I said so far was important, but what I'm about to say is the most important thing right now. I am seriously concerned that more than 200,000 older people are in danger of having a legal promise to pay them a parental pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U491	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U492	Thank you, good fellow. We can always follow the practice of a longer-lasting government coalition here in the Riigikogu. At the time, this did not create a constitutional crisis. After all, we 101 stand for the crisis that you mentioned not to come. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U493	Thank you. First of all, a brief response to Mr Linde. Yes, in 2011 I indeed withdrew the draft, but it was preceded by the decision of the Government of the Republic to withdraw it, as provided for by the Constitution and the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. So this was a completely different case from the one we're talking about. But I would also like to point out that the question of whether or not the Minister has these powers is very fundamental. I would like to draw attention once again to the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. He says, "Ministers come and go, but the government stays. The difference between the powers of the Minister and those of the Government must be emphasised in particular when some ministers may have a reprehensible monopolistic feeling that everything is permissible for those in power. ' I am afraid that this letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs, written in an emotionally excited state, can really cause us a deep constitutional crisis. So I still have a request that the Board of the Riigikogu take a break and find out whether or not the decision of the Government of the Republic on the withdrawal of the draft exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U494	Thank you. The board members have been discussing this. We believe that this withdrawal is entirely legal and legitimate. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U495	Thank you. I do not understand when you were able to discuss this point in the Bureau, because this letter came when one of the Bureau members was here to chair the sitting. I don't think you've been able to discuss this case. But if you refer to § 95 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, this is indeed the interpretation here. The commentary says: 'According to § 22 (1) of the Reglement of the Government of the Republic, the withdrawal of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic from the proceedings of the Riigikogu is decided on a proposal from the representative minister at the meeting of the Government. Paragraph 2 of the same section of the Reglement provides for a distinction according to which if the government fails to form a position on the withdrawal of the Riigikogu from the procedure, the representative minister may, with the consent of the Prime Minister, withdraw the draft from the Riigikogu procedure. ' I read here that there is a very clear condition. I haven't analyzed it, but I understand the Chancellor of Justice has analyzed it. From this analysis, it can be concluded that this rule is contrary to the Constitution and the law. But even in this comment, I read that the condition is that the Government of the Republic cannot shape a position. So they must have at least tried to do that. As far as I am concerned, at least from these explanations we can conclude, the Government of the Republic has not attempted to form a position on this matter, which is that we cannot say that they have not been able to do so. Apparently, the Government of the Republic should gather and try to shape this position. I think it would be fair for them to have the opportunity and the time to give it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U496	Thank you! We will certainly follow the principle of separation of powers. Now, if you continue to quote what you started, it has been said very clearly here that if the Government of the Republic does not shape a position, then this can be done with the consent of the representative minister, with the Prime Minister. I asked the officials to check if the Prime Minister's consent existed. It's there. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U497	Thank you. However, Mr President, I invite you to relax. This is a fundamental precedent. Last time, in 2007, a gentleman like Savisaar played a role here, which resulted in legal assessments. These assessments are quite harsh, and I believe that we have a collective responsibility to try to be legitimate. Even if one of us seems to have problems, we should help him get over them. The suggestion I made in my previous speech was that the Bureau take a break, find out the motives of the government and ask the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee to draw up an opinion of some kind. I think if everything is all right, as you say, it may take two minutes. We could then move forward, we should no longer be discussing this issue, which is unpleasant for us, especially given that it is a public transport law, a very fundamental law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U498	First of all, thank you very much for wanting me to have a calm mind! This is certainly necessary in this situation. We have also asked our fellow officials how it is about withdrawing it, whether it is in accordance with the law on domestic and operating procedures or not, and we have been told that it is compatible. So I wish you wouldn't have to worry so much about it, you can be calm, too. We're being perfectly legitimate right now. Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U499	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I read from the top screen that this is about the Chancellor of Justice 2013 review, and I wonder whether the current speakers are the Dwarfs of the Chancellor of Justice or what is happening. You've always led the hearing with a firm hand. These lines do not relate in any way to the item under discussion. Maybe we should keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U500	Thank you. We are at the stage of negotiations, but since the members of the Riigikogu began to ask procedural questions, the President must certainly answer them until he sees that the answers to procedural questions have ended in his opinion. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U501	Thank you. In answering my previous question, you said that the regulation says that if the government does not want to shape a position or if the government does not shape it, the minister has the right to withdraw the draft. However, the commentary explicitly states that this is only the case if the government is unable to form a position. This means that there has been no such opportunity at this time, there must be some clear reasons for this. However, I do have a proposal, based on the separation of powers, to take a break. The manager has that right. Once the break is taken, the Government of the Republic will also be able to comply with its own rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U502	Thank you. But we always follow established practice. The practice has been very clear in the past that the Minister has submitted a proposal to the Chairman of the Riigikogu or to the Management Board, as had been the case today in the letter of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Juhan Parts, please, take it easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U503	Still, I'm sticking to the fact that we need to understand the motives of the government. Let's imagine that the government is under some kind of fear, some kind of pressure, he's afraid of something. I would point out that we are currently violating the Constitution. Any subsequent decision we make could be challenged in court. What happens then? There's legal chaos. How easy it would be for Jüri Ratas, along with his colleagues, to solve this problem on the board and find out the motives of the government! If the motives are fully understandable and appropriate to the rule of law, we can immediately move on to discussing very important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U504	Thank you for that thought. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U505	Thank you. You referred to an internship that has evolved in this Chamber. However, I understood the opposite when I followed the previous speeches closely. The internship has been, yes, indeed, wrong in this hall before. Reference was made to the case of Edgar Savisaare, former Minister of Economic Affairs, when he alone removed the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic from the agenda or proposed such a draft and this draft was actually withdrawn. But after that, the Chancellor of Justice has analysed this situation very accurately and said that such a thing is not possible. As the former Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, confirmed, in later cases this was the case that the Minister's letter, the proposal, was preceded by the decision of the Government of the Republic. However, could we not, here in the future, introduce precisely this, now a better practice, in this right way?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U506	We must always improve, but I have received information that this government decision has not always been in advance. So right now, you and I have different information. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would still like to know these government motives and their legal correctness. I'm looking at that ministerial letter. I believe you've seen it or been whispered to you about it. You probably have someone whispering under the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U508	Try to talk more about the microphone! You're too far from the microphone, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U509	I'm sorry! This letter does not have a deadline. Perhaps the Minister has spilt such letters on all kinds of questions, drafts and other things, and just someone here in the Riigikogu is taking them and giving them to random proceedings? On what date did the minister send this letter? Is a letter without a date valid in accordance with the procedures of our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U510	Thank you. That is absolutely the right question. Indeed, this letter does not have a date of dispatch on it, but it is registered here, on June 18th, in the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. However, if you read this letter even more attentively before you, you can see that it is discussed at the end of the letter 404 and it has been said in advance that it is a draft law on public transport. So it is quite clear that there has been a specific discussion here about the draft law that was withdrawn from the agenda a few hours ago today. We should now proceed with the political groups' negotiations, because perhaps another group would like to speak. Would Priit Toobal like that? Well, if you have a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U511	Thank you, Mr President. According to my understanding and in accordance with Article 22 (2) of the Reglement of the Government of the Republic, Urve Palo has the full right to withdraw this draft if he has the consent of the Prime Minister. My question is about this agreement. As far as I know, Prime Minister Rõivas is on a foreign visit. Has this consent been obtained from him? How, then, has it been obtained? Did it come from his first deputy, Sven Mikser, who is Prime Minister, when the Prime Minister's duties cannot be fulfilled in the garment? Or has this consent been obtained from the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, who was in charge of the Prime Minister's duties in today's Question Time? Who gave this consent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U512	That's a good question. I have been told by a representative of the Government of the Republic that the Prime Minister's consent exists. Okay, no more procedural questions. Mr Parts, unfortunately, you cannot speak on behalf of the IRL Group, because Mr Aaviksoo has already taken part in the debate on this item on behalf of the IRL Group. Juhan Parts, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U513	Thank you. Under no circumstances do we want to obstruct the work of the Riigikogu. As we have a long working day ahead of us today, I have a request to the board that you give someone an order that the government disclose its motives as soon as possible and that our Legal Department take a look at them. If these things exist, let us know in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U514	Here's what we're gonna do. Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I thank the Chancellor of Justice for his review! The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U515	Thank you. Because of this practice, the Chancellor of Justice has, to my knowledge, made his assessment and found this to be illegal. But I do have two prayers. By referring to which paragraph do you say that a decision of the Government of the Republic is not required? Please say the paragraph! Secondly, if you interpret it this way, we would like to see the document by which the Prime Minister of the Republic has given such a mandate to a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U516	Thank you. I rely on what I have already read, § 95 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U517	Thank you. I also have this letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs. You think the Prime Minister has coordinated it. I understand that the Chancellor of Justice's position has been that it is not in accordance with the law, and indirectly it is a violation of the Constitution. I still have a request. Can't you find out what these motives are? This is not a law, it is a public transport law. It has been prepared for years and this bill has been discussed here for a year and a half. This concerns almost every resident of Estonia, all municipalities, different modes of transport. We saw the minister was emotionally upset here half an hour ago, and now he's sent a letter here. I ask you to take action on the board so that the government informs the Riigikogu of the motives why this bill has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U518	Thank you, Honourable Juhan Parts. I agree with you that this bill really concerns almost everyone, if not all Estonian residents. We will definitely follow the next board meetings to identify the motives of your reply. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U519	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to ask the procedure whether I would be entitled to explain to my colleagues, especially Mr Seeder, that there is a letter from the Ministry of Agriculture of the Riigikogu of 10 October 2011, signed by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder at the time. In this letter, the Riigikogu was asked to withdraw the draft law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic and pending before the Riigikogu 54. So we actually already have historical experience of what's going on here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U520	Good co-worker! I also referred to the previous practice of the Riigikogu in my reply, which you referred to in more detail. But just because you two are having a little conversation, we're definitely not gonna limit it. This is to be welcomed. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U521	Thank you. Suppose the government has broken the law and the constitution now. We are the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu. I have a request that we take a long enough break, if necessary, so that the government can publish these motives and the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee will give us a legal, say in a Soviet language, a statement, so-called sprovka, that everything is done according to the law. Otherwise, one minister may have caused a constitutional crisis at the moment, and this could set a precedent. Given the youth of our government, it may continue to recur, especially in view of the extraordinary sessions that are approaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U522	I think there's important morals here. We don't want any kind of anarchy or anything. If there's a law, you'll do it, even if you don't like it very much. You have to accept that. It's about morality, there's nothing else here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U523	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U524	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. I will continue with the partnership law, which has already been asked about. Recently, our computer mailboxes have been full of letters. One can conclude that there is one concern: the pending draft law on cohabitation is contrary to § 27 of the Constitution, which provides for the obligation of the state and of all of us to protect the institution of the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and for society. So there's a barricade here, so a lot of people are afraid of it. I understand from your answers that you've been keeping an eye on the subject. Is there a latch or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U525	Thank you! There's a lot of emotions here, but I'm not directly involved. However, after Parliament has decided, I will decide whether or not this law is compatible with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice stands next to him, he is not a political person, he is side by side and he sees whether he is in conformity with the Constitution or not. Yeah, and no, let's just say so. The other thing, some kind of lobbying is maybe ordinary and maybe not. There is still democracy and lobbying throughout democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U526	Kaia Iva, please! Your turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U527	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In the last few years, your attention as a children's ombudsman has been in orbit with substitute care children and precisely those in institutional care in substitute homes. You've been watching their guardians stand up for them, the conditions in the substitute homes, and whether the interests of the children are always at the forefront. Last year, you followed how the precepts have been fulfilled and what progress has been made. What is your assessment of whether these precepts have been sufficiently fulfilled, and what forward-looking proposals can you highlight in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U528	Thank you! That's what we watch all the time. Generally accepted, but not always. Let's see how the next few years go, how things change. We deal with this topic all the time, every day and any time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U529	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U530	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I'm a little confused. If you look at the views of you and your predecessor, it becomes clear that you are slightly different in the context of the Constitution, for example, on the issue of abortion, whether there is a breach of the Constitution or not. You have now proposed a juvenile-related restriction on the termination of pregnancy. You think the body of young women is more important than protecting human life. I, too, have a question of this area concerning the work of the child ombudsman. Do you think the municipalities are doing their job better now and going to the end of the job? You have repeatedly referred to the fact that municipalities often drop out of work and parental rights remain hanging in the air so that they cannot send a child to a substitute home or care family.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U531	If you're asking about local governments, they're completely different. If we have tried to control them, it has become clear that some of them are very good and successful, but some are not. They're completely different. That's the problem right now. It's one thing, completely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U532	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U533	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! You stood up for the Constitution and its principles in your review, especially on such a complex issue as dominance of money or justice. You referred very strongly to constitutional values. But we all know well that there is nothing more political than the Constitution and the principles that it contains. Consequently, it is quite understandable that the interpretation of the Constitution is always a strong weather and political component. We have also experienced this in practice. The various Chancellors of Justice, as has been pointed out here recently, have expressed different views on the issue of this balance, the right to self-determination and the right to preserve life. Can you tell me how you, as Chancellor of Justice, hold such an activist's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U534	Thank you! Am I a very big activist? I will intervene and propose only if some kind of rule conflicts with the Constitution, as has been pointed out in the case of abortion, that the fundamental right of a person is violated. It's important. This was already set out in 2009. If you simplify a bit, you could say that some kind of contradiction with the Constitution should be obvious. I think it's clear. If we use the principle of proportionality and go very far with it, it does not make sense. It is also usually the principle that the law and the constitution should be more or less the same, but they are not. In my opinion, the Constitution is higher and then there are laws. In fact, Parliament's discretion is very broad when a decision is constitutional. I have to act to clarify whether it is constitutional or not. That's my basic principle. Then I get involved and maybe very sharp. But I have always said that I will never attack institutions, but I will deal with one thing, a particular problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U535	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U536	Thank you, Mr President. I have also received Urve Palo, letter from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications to Eiki Nestor, President of the Riigikogu. Urve Palo states: 'I hereby withdraw draft law SE 404 on public transport initiated by the Government of the Republic and pending before the Riigikogu. " There is no justification or reference to the government's decision. But the author of the bill is the government, not the minister. According to the Constitution and the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft can be withdrawn by the initiator, i.e. the government, not the Minister. Do you have a government decision on this? If you have it, please publish it to the members of the Riigikogu! I would add that the Chancellor of Justice has already assessed a similar case before. According to the Chancellor of Justice, it is clear from the provisions of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act that the draft is initiated by the Government of the Republic as a collegial body, not by a minister whose law concerns the area of government of the Ministry. The Chancellor of Justice has said: 'The withdrawal of the draft is a matter of fundamental importance which must be decided by the Government of the Republic as a collegial body. Due to the meaning of § 87 (4) of the Constitution, § 103 (1) (4) of the Constitution and § 90 (1) (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the withdrawal of the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu cannot be decided by the Minister alone and the government cannot delegate such decision-making powers to the Minister. Any withdrawal of the draft must be preceded by a collegial decision taken by the Government of the Republic in this regard. ' So, please, do you have at your disposal the decision of the Government of the Republic to withdraw the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U537	Thank you. I also hold Urve Palo's letter to the President of the Riigikogu, where he asks for the draft public transport law 404 to be withdrawn. If we read the law on our home and work arrangements, we will see that really, that is as you read it, but there is also one exception to this commentary. If the government cannot hold a meeting, the representative minister may withdraw the draft with the consent of the Prime Minister. Information on this must be provided at the next government meeting. I believe that this is what the representative of the Government of the Republic has been based on. As far as I know, there is also the Prime Minister's agreement that this bill should be withdrawn. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U538	Thank you. That's your interpretation. A commentated edition is a book, not a law. I follow the law and the Chancellor of Justice's assessment of an earlier case of exactly the same kind in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice has made a very clear assessment of this: such a withdrawal must be preceded by a decision of the government as a collegial body; it cannot be limited to a decision taken by a single minister or by a Prime Minister. I think we should proceed from the point of view of the Chancellor of Justice, which he has presented right here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U539	Thank you. As far as I know, and in my experience, previous practice has been similar. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U540	Let's move on to the third item. First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Defence Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U541	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. I hope this bill has been available to you. Since, unlike the withdrawal of the draft, the draft has to motivate the submission of the draft, the draft is accompanied by an explanatory memorandum which states, among other things, that: The mandate of UNTSO for the United Nations Middle East Observation Mission has now been given to up to three members of the Defence Forces and the Government has the wish to ask the Riigikogu to agree to increase this limit to six. UNTSO is the UN's first peacekeeping mission, already established in 1948, in the last century, and is one of the most important peacekeeping missions in the world ever. Estonia has been contributing with military observers since 1997, so also since the last century. Participation in various types of missions, whether NATO, the European Union or UN-led, gives our defence forces the opportunity to develop and improve their quality of work. Defence forces with a wide range of experience will certainly be useful both in the Estonian Defence Forces and in international operations, in resolving and mitigating international crises. We are seeking to raise the limit of the current mandate, as this year the UN has made offers to Estonia to man up some of the most significant senior staff officers compared to their current contributions. These offers demonstrate the UN's confidence in the professionalism of the Estonian state and Estonian officers and that the UN values Estonia's long-term involvement in the UNTSO mission. It is the Government's intention to post an Estonian officer for the position of Chief of Observatory since October. We are also calling for the flexibility of posting to be somewhat higher than hitherto, to increase the limit from three to six. The additional costs of participating in the mission from October to December this year are around EUR 9000 and will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration. I hope that the Riigikogu will consider it possible to process this draft quickly and make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U542	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U543	Thank you very much. It is undoubtedly positive that there is such confidence in Estonia. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that similar proposals have been made for other missions. Can you recall what happened to these other proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U544	Estonia currently participates in the mission in Mali, in addition to UNTSO. This mission is called MINUSMA. This operation is expanding rapidly and Estonia's goal is to gradually increase its contribution to the past. I wouldn't be setting out any concrete new plans at the moment, but one possible development under consideration is to increase the contribution to the Minusma operation in Mali. If the current mandate does not cover the new plans, as provided for by the law, we will come to the Riigikogu with this proposal if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U545	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U546	Good Secretary of Defense! I listened with surprise or even amazement to your claim that the mission in the Middle East, or UNTSO, is one of the most outstanding and successful missions that has contributed to the pursuit of global peace since the middle of the last century. I have a slightly different opinion about that. But the specific question is as follows. What are the interests of the Estonian state so that such a small country can earn some interest in doubling its contribution to its interests in a rather difficult context in the region? Perhaps, in addition to being able to increase our contribution, we should explain the benefits that this could bring to the Estonian state and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U547	Thank you. I said that UNTSO was the UN's first peacekeeping mission, which was established in 1948, and it has been one of the most important missions ever. There is no doubt about his success, but I certainly did not say anything about that in my speech. Success can be measured in two ways. You might wonder what would be the situation in this area without this mission. Of course, it is impossible to give an empirical answer to this. But the UNTSO mission has certainly helped to avoid, to some extent, escalating tensions in the Middle East. Our desire today is not to double Estonia's participation, but to increase our participation so that instead of three members of the Defence Forces, four will participate in the mission. However, should Estonia happen to be offered other important positions that can be filled with respect to our human resources, and this is financially feasible and could add value to us, it is certainly reasonable to have some flexibility. I think that this practice, if there are plans to deploy three members of the Defence Forces on a mission and ask for exactly three mandates, is perhaps not the most sensible one. I consider flexibility to be good and right for missions. But, as has already been said, so far we have had three observers in three places on this mission. An additional post would be the first position of senior staff officer on the UNTSO mission, which would undoubtedly be important to our Defence Forces as an experience. It seems to me that you are not listening to my response at the moment, but if you have observed the involvement of our Defence Forces on foreign missions, you know that the number of members of the Defence Forces active in foreign operations will be somewhat reduced due to the imminent termination of the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. I think that increasing the participation of UNTSO by one member of the Defence Forces is in no way against Estonia's interests and is not too much for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U548	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U549	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I look at the title of this decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict... '. I am not going to comment on the situation in Lebanon, Israel or Egypt, but the word 'post-conflict' is simply a sign of our foreign policy incompetence in the draft decision of the Estonian Parliament today on Syria. Could it possibly be possible to correct this speech from somewhere in history between the first reading and the second reading to show that we can still keep an eye on what is happening in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U550	I believe that if we did, or if you did, Estonia would probably not cause a constitutional crisis as a result. However, this is a draft amendment to the decision that was adopted here in the Riigikogu before, and the decision adopted at that time bears precisely that title. Should we retroactively change the title of this decision, which was adopted in this Chamber at the end of last year? Personally, I'm quite doubtful about that. This is, as I said, an operation or mission in which Estonia has participated since 1997, which is why this decision has been repeatedly extended here in the Riigikogu or, rightly, the term for the use of the Defence Forces has been extended several times. Why the previous Government of the Republic, with the Minister of Defence sitting next to you, brought this draft to the Chamber at the end of last year, with the title of what speaks of the succession of conflict in Syria, you can certainly ask your colleague directly. Right now, we're changing the decision at the time. I do not think we should try to change the title of the decision at that time retroactively.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U551	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U552	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! You mentioned that the Estonian Defence Forces have been involved in this operation for the last 16 years. Since 2011, civil war has taken place in Syria. Would you briefly outline how the nature of this operation has changed and how much this operation is currently taking place on Syria's territory? Or is Syria mentioned in that title only because it operates in the border regions of Syria?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U553	There is action on the Golan Heights, which is known to have been the so-called controversial territory that Syria has considered occupied. But there are also operations in Lebanon and Egypt; the headquarters of this operation is located in Jerusalem. So this organization, which is called UNTSO, or United Nations Truce Supervision Organization, covers a number of countries involved in the Middle East conflict. There are also three Estonian observers currently operating in three places: Jerusalem, Israel, Ismailia, Egypt, and the Syrian-Israeli line on the Golan Upland. Certainly, the civil war in Syria has changed this threat somewhat. None of the parties to this civil war treats UN peacekeepers directly as enemies, but in view of what is happening in Syria, the level of danger is certainly somewhat higher on the Golan Upland than before the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U554	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U555	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will refrain from this formality and ask a substantive question. As a foreign policy and defence policy specialist, perhaps you will give a brief overview of whether and how the events that have recently taken place on Iraqi territory will affect our mission and the overall political situation in Syria and in the whole region where we are extending our mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U556	It is certainly a little premature to make this assessment, but it is clear that the tightening of the situation in Iraq could have an impact on the security situation in Syria, which is already very fragile, as I said in the previous response. Undoubtedly, in the long term, it is possible that Iraqi events will have an immediate impact. But Iraq, as you read in the title of the bill, this particular operation does not concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U557	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U558	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think that increasing Estonia's participation in international missions is a reasonable course. Right now, there's a small number of militia on this mission. Due to the tightening of the situation in Syria, attacks, attempts to take hostages and other such provocative steps are possible in relation to international missions. At the time, the Ministry of Defence prepared approaches or analyses on the security situation and the level of security of the mission. Why don't you give an overview of the security situation and potential risks of this type of mission in the light of the Syrian crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U559	As I said, the mission covers different countries. The assessment of the security situation is certainly different in different countries, in some places the situation is calm and in some places, one could say, hiddenly tense. As I said, UNTSO staff is not a separate target for any party in the region, at least so far it has not been. This is an unarmed operation, for which physical defence is provided by the Second United Nations Security Disengagement Observer Force, or UNDOF, on the Syrian side of the Golan Upland, and in other areas the host country does so. There hasn't been a problem with that so far. Of course, no military operation is actually safe. The threat picture must be kept in mind and every effort must be made to ensure that the Estonian Defence Forces are as well aware of these threats on missions as possible and that all measures have been taken to minimise the likelihood of the threats being realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U560	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U561	Thank you. There are a number of sensitive issues on the agenda of today's sitting, which really matter to people. Very soon we will be discussing a draft by which the Government of the Republic has proposed to withdraw the maternity pension from the 200,000 retired mothers. We are debating today the draft law on child protection, there is a draft law on the reform of working capacity, which experts consider to be very crude, and the draft law on cohabitation will also be discussed today. For most of these drafts, many letters will be sent to Members. Every time there is a draft of a mission in the process, concerned mothers, grandmothers, and husbands turn to us and ask if we need all of this. What is your assessment as Minister? Will our people's awareness and understanding of this issue be sufficient and will they understand that these missions are necessary for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U562	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have brought here a draft on the extension of the post-conflict peacekeeping mission. With this draft, we will give a mandate to up to six people. You mentioned in your story that perhaps the bill needs to come here once again when we are offered some so-called jobs that we could manage. What are the jobs you have mentioned? Is it possible to predict whether we will have to deal with the same change in the next six months or in a year instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U563	Thank you. The extension of the mandate of all missions led by both the UN and other organisations, where Estonia participates, will be discussed in the Riigikogu one by one. We are not actually changing the deadline at the moment, this deadline is still the end of the year. I believe that while Estonia will be participating in international military operations next year, the government will make proposals in this regard, these drafts will have to be processed in this Chamber even after your summer vacation. So I'm not going to predict. We work not on the basis of predictions, but on the basis of a specific analysis that has examined what is feasible for Estonia and which crises need to be regulated. On this basis, we come to the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure prescribed by law to ask for a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U564	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U565	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Today, we are discussing a draft decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces on an external mission. At the same time, there are a few points further on the agenda for us to take money away from the mothers and grandmothers of these soldiers. What do you think these soldiers feel like on this foreign mission? Why don't you give us a little bit of a description of whether their defence will be bigger or smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U566	Estonian Defence Forces are certainly well-motivated professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U567	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U568	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is, yes, an extension of the mission. As you pointed out, you are constantly analysing the situation and consulting our allies. This area is very, very dangerous. What does the analysis show now? Could it be said at some point that this is no longer an extension? How is the Estonian state prepared for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U569	Thank you. In English, this organisation is called United Nations Truce Supervision Organization. It's a truce monitoring organization. It is an unarmed mission that monitors the observance of the truce and the implementation of agreements in these areas. I do not think that this operation will take on tasks other than monitoring the conditions of the truce, as the situation tightens. But, as has been said, the situation in the wider region is extremely dynamic. If the international community is in a position to prevent the situation from becoming more strained in other ways, it is worth considering this seriously. But, as we know, the international community so far has not been overly enthusiastic about the idea of intervening with military force or resolving the situation in several countries in the region, for example, Syria.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U570	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U571	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law relates to expenditure relating to the operation, but generally the draft decision still refers to expenditure relating to that decision. Here is the manning of one of the additional posts requested. The costs in this respect are around EUR 9000. But the decision gives a mandate to more warriors. How is it now, then, what are the costs of taking this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U572	I think you can calmly vote in favour of this decision, knowing that the costs arising from this decision during this year will amount to EUR 9000 and will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration. As I said, we foresee a degree of flexibility so that the mission limit is slightly higher than the number of Defence Forces actually deployed on the mission. The Riigikogu has made certain adjustments in the practice of posting missions over the years. We have also experienced situations where the number of Defence Forces actually present in the mission area has at some point been higher than the number under mandate, for example in terms of rotation, if the contingent leaving the mission has not yet left the area as a whole, but the new one has already arrived. I think that this flexibility is certainly justified. But in the event of a positive decision, there is a plan to deploy an additional member of the Defence Forces to this mission during this year. This position has been offered to us since October for one year, or October of the following year. If the government comes before the Riigikogu in the second half of the year in order to extend the entire duration of this mission, then the Defence Forces in this position have certainly also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U573	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U574	Thank you. Good minister! You said that this peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria is at relatively low risk. You mentioned earlier that the Defence Forces do not have weapons there. Would you be more specific about what these militias are doing on this mission if they were sent there without weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U575	Thank you. All the assessments I have received have been extremely positive. As I said, the nature of the missions is different. It is currently a blue helmet mission; in Iraq and Afghanistan, it was a mission of a different nature. But regardless of the type of mission, all assessments of the professionalism and motivation of Estonian Defence Forces have been commendable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U576	Thank you. As you know, the deployment of the Defence Forces mission in Estonia by law has been arranged in such a way that the government comes to the Riigikogu with a proposal and asks for a mandate for a certain period of time, after writing the draft of the mission area, duration and also the maximum number of Defence Forces members that may be used in the operation. This in itself does not create an obligation for the government to deploy so many members of the Defence Forces for such a long period of time. If our country's assessment of the situation changes, we certainly have the right to take our decisions within this mandate even before the end of this year or before the expiry of any mission. On the other hand, I would like to stress that these organisations themselves, UNTSO and the United Nations, will certainly monitor the change in the situation and will make changes to the nature of this mission and to the location of the members of the Defence Forces, if the security situation so warrants.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U577	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U578	Thank you. Good minister! It was still unclear that this was a peace-building mission, but whether the Estonian Defence Forces on the mission were indeed without weapons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U579	Thank you. The answer is yes. This is a classic United Nations blue helmet mission, an unarmed mission. As I said, the second UN operation UNDOF guarantees the physical security of the mission, specifically at the Golan Heights.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U580	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U581	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Any document that goes out of the Riigikogu must be accurate. I agree with the need for a peace-building mission in Lebanon, Egypt and Syria. But I don't understand what our soldiers have to do in Israel right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U582	Thank you. As I said earlier, the mission headquarters are in Jerusalem, Israel. There is an Estonian Defence Forcesman now serving there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U583	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U584	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, the Minister of Economic Affairs Urve Palo has today withdrawn the draft law on public transport from the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which he has allegedly received from the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas is abroad, and according to the replacement procedure, you are on the prime minister's duty. In briefing, the Prime Minister was represented by Urve Tiidus, the acting Prime Minister. You didn't happen to be the person in charge of the Prime Minister's duties, not yet known to the public, who approved the withdrawal of the Urve Palo Bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U585	Thank you. Your question does not even have an indirect link to the draft that is currently being dealt with. But in answer, no, it wasn't me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U586	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U587	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come back to the issues of defence and defence. I'm interested in the Central African Republic mission. We are now there under the aegis of the European Union. If, at one point, the European Union's mission should end and continue under the auspices of the United Nations, are we ready and willing to continue to participate in the mission? Why don't you give me a few words about that, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U588	How's it going to be under the rules now? We are here to process the UNTSO mission, not the Central African Republic mission. At the risk of getting very spread out, I will try to answer very briefly. The European Union mission in the Central African Republic will last six months after its full capability, which means that it will probably continue beyond the end of this year. The mandate of Estonian Defence Forces will be exhausted at the end of August and up to five staff officers may continue to work there after that. Certainly, if it is decided to continue this operation in some form under the auspices of the United Nations and we have to ask about it, we will seriously consider it and take a prudent decision. According to the law, we come to the Riigikogu if necessary to ask for a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U589	Thank you. Priit Onion, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U590	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm trying to ask a little more about missions this time, and this mission. I'm curious how many militias are on missions now and how many missions we're in. Specifically, in this mission, I am interested in EUR 9,000 if we send an extra person to the mission. What exactly are the cost components of this EUR 9000?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U591	Thank you. I'm sure I'll ask you for this exact numerical breakdown. There is nothing secret here, but I really am not ready for such a detailed question right now. But I'm sure you'll get a precise and detailed answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U592	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U593	Thank you. I am asking a question that is directly linked to this subject and not so detailed, but more general. I'm sure you can answer that thoroughly. We're extending the mission now. Would you be good and give us a brief overview of how the Estonian Defence Forces have managed their missions so far and what is our allies' assessment of these missions? Then, as members of the Riigikogu, we can be sure and with a calm heart extend this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U594	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 11 June. Andres Järv, adviser to the Political Planning Department of the Ministry of Defence, took part in the meeting as the representative of the initiators of the draft. The military observation mission under discussion is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. As the previous speaker said, the Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in these missions since 1997. It is a so-called United Nations Blue Helmet Observation Mission. As a member of the UN, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. The draft amends the Riigikogu decision of 11 December 2013, increasing the limit of the Estonian Defence Forces members participating in the mission from three to six. In doing so, the term of use of the Estonian Defence Forces' mission will remain unchanged until s. a until 31 December. The adoption of the draft decision will allow the Republic of Estonia to fill the position of Chief of the UNTSO Observatory as of October 2014. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 17 June (this discussion moved forward by a day) for the first reading and to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft. The deadline for tabling amendments is 4 July at 4 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U595	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U596	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I asked the Minister a question earlier, but it was probably a bit confusing. I didn't get the answer from the minister like I expected. I'm going to ask you. Did the Commission discuss whether the Ministry has predicted that if we renew the mandate and increase the number of soldiers on the peacekeeping mission, since the minister could then come again to the Riigikogu Hall with similar proposals to discuss the extension of the next missions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U597	Thank you! The previous speaker answered the questions you asked, I think, very well, even though for a little while. You too were given quite an exhaustive answer. But one of the key points is certainly that the deadline for the mission is not being extended or increased, but is being given the opportunity to increase the number of unarmed observers in the areas where it is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U598	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U599	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are not only that you have a respectable task, a duty and an opportunity to be a representative of the people in this Chamber, but also at other times in a very important role. You're a doctor, and I think that maybe that's why more than a lot of people in this room are familiar with a lot of people's concerns. My question is quite similar to the question I put to the Minister. What feedback have you received about going on missions and being there, about the fact that Estonian soldiers are attending them? Is the parents' concern for their children greater than understanding that participating in missions is in the interests of the Estonian state and necessary? What are your voters' feedback, but perhaps your patients' feedback on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U600	Thank you! The question is very interesting. I'd love to answer you for a very long time after I get rid of this remote control, like in the cafeteria. Unfortunately, this issue was not addressed at all at the Commission meeting. But I have a pretty close connection with the people who participated in the mission and were injured there because I'm working pretty closely with the East Tallinn Central Hospital rehabilitation clinic. I'm there quite a few times a year, and I'm also meeting injured soldiers on the mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U601	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U602	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Participation in UN missions, peace observation missions and civilian missions, as well as making Estonia more prominent in the UN, are certainly part of Estonia's foreign policy plan regarding Estonia's possible future membership as a temporary member of the UN Security Council. This is one of the so-called foreign policy doctrines that the government has had, and certainly one of the things that must be taken into account in shaping Estonia's mission policy. Has the National Defence Committee discussed Estonia's request to become a provisional member of the UN Security Council more broadly because of this foreign policy objective? What else should be contributed in the field of national defence in order to increase Estonia's influence in this global organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U603	Thank you! This is certainly a very interesting and far-reaching question, but obviously your groupmate Marko Mihkelson would respond much better. This was not discussed by the Commission under this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U604	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U605	Thank you. I believe that the Committee on National Defence also discussed alternatives and the wider context of doubling this mandate. I understand and support the wish to ensure better security in Estonia internationally. But I think that here too, it should be selective and consider whether spending taxpayers' money on specific missions is really outweighing the development of local defence capabilities. What are the arguments why it is necessary to double this mission rather than, for example, support the Defence League or choose another defence policy alternative?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U606	This need for an increase in the number in the Commission was highlighted very briefly and the opinion of the initiator of the draft was sought. Our opinion, which we have also defended on our repeated trips abroad, is that Estonia should increase its contribution to UN observation missions. The National Defence Committee therefore takes a very positive view of the possibility that the Republic of Estonia will receive the position of head of the observatory from October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U607	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Tõnu Juul! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, on behalf of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U608	Thank you. I think there's an increase in awareness from year to year. I see that the members of the Riigikogu have a pleasant number of questions in the debate on increasing the limit of the mandate of this particular operation. There have been fewer issues in the discussions on decisions on the extension of missions with a higher and higher risk assessment of several volumes. This, too, will probably help to raise people's awareness.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U609	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U610	Thank you. I said UNTSO operation is an unarmed peacekeeping operation. I don't want to start repeating myself too much. Surely it is more reasonable if you listen to my answers and ask questions that have already been answered. But the task of this mission is to monitor compliance with the truce agreements. I didn't say the level of danger was low, I said the level of danger varies. Since the mission covers several countries, it can be described as calm in some places and under cover in some places. I also said that the civil war in Syria has certainly put pressure on the situation in particular at the Golan Heights. I also said that it would not be worth underestimating the dangers of any mission or overlooking them, although the level of risk for missions is certainly different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U611	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U612	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you became Minister of Defence again, you were reminded of your views on the Defence League. During your first term of office, you had reservations about the reasonableness of the Defence League. Have you corrected your position now? How could such missions affect the activities of the Defence League? How many defence allies have participated in different missions and how much has it helped to improve this organisation? If we look at the general fear of the defence of society, it is likely that, in the light of the recent events in Ukraine, the question of the will of defence and the defence of the state has risen to the consciousness of the Estonian people, and therefore there is a great deal of interest in joining the Defence League. How do you comment on all this as Minister of Defence, including in the context of missions? To what extent does this contribute to the development of the Defence Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U613	Thank you. The fact that you also mention missions on the issue certainly does not make the issue relevant. But at the risk of throwing the country into a constitutional crisis, because the Rules of Procedure do not provide for answers to questions that are not relevant, I say that I very much appreciate the Defence League and its actions. Certainly, he plays an important role in increasing the will for protection. Foreign missions certainly play an important role in improving the training and professional level of Estonian Defence Forces. It has certainly also had an exceptionally positive effect on the will for defence over the years. Certainly, those Estonian Defence Forces who have served on foreign missions will pass on their skills to their colleagues in the further ministry. This, too, will help to improve Estonia's defence capabilities and thereby improve the reputation of the defence forces, and this, in turn, echoes against the increase in the will for defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U614	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U615	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Defence Forces participate in a number of peacekeeping missions and gain valuable experience there. How will this experience later be used to protect the Estonian state so that it does not go to waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U616	Thank you. Very different ways. The career of the Defence Forces on missions continues in various functions. I'm sure every experience will come in handy. There are very different types of missions, from the Iraq and Afghanistan missions to the UNTSO. I believe that every member of the Defence Forces who has been on a mission will find this experience to be very valuable and will use it in his future career, as well as all other experience and education and training.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U617	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U618	Thank you. Good waitress! 11 December, when it was decided to extend the mandate, was not, in fact, a long time ago. In the Riigikogu, a very cautious, conservative decision was made and a mandate was given for the participation of up to three members of the Defence Forces. It wasn't flexible enough, as you pointed out here. Now we're going to give a mandate to up to six members of the Defence Forces. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that this year the UN has made several offers for Estonia to man the leading positions. Maybe we're too careful and conservative this time too. Maybe there should be a much bigger number here than six. Why six?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U619	Thank you. That's a pretty good question. Let me put it this way: it is not only up to our decision to deploy defence forces on missions that we make proposals and offers, but we also look at what we can do from the point of view of using human resources and what we think is reasonable. We certainly do not intend to deploy more members of the Defence Forces to this operation this year. The fear that the number of six is too small is not justified at this time. If there should be a need for more members of the Defence Forces in the future, then, as has been said, the draft extension of the deadline for the various missions will come to this Chamber already during this year and it will certainly be possible to revisit these limits as well. At the moment, the situation was not sufficiently flexible as the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces seconded to the mission overlapd with the number of people on the mission. Hence the need to come before the Riigikogu earlier to change the draft mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U620	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U621	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking, from the background, what's going on in this area. In fact, Iraq has broken down now, not de jure, but central control of the territory has disappeared. Syria is his neighbour. This mission organisation is monitoring the implementation of the so-called truce agreement. If the truce ends or there is a military conflict or civil war in the region again, what will this further process look like? Will the mission end automatically, and will our soldiers quickly leave because they are there as part of a non-military mission? What does this process look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U622	Thank you very much. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U623	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Since we are authorising up to six members of the Defence Forces instead of three members of the Defence Forces in this draft, I would like to ask. How do such agreements take place with partners? Are there any "limits" between each country to determine how many soldiers he sends on a mission? Is it dependent on something? So, what were we doing on six? Perhaps in a few words you will give members of the Riigikogu an overview of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U624	Thank you. For each mission, the 'arms' or mission leaders will establish the needs of the mission and draw up a list of capabilities needed to achieve the mission's objectives, and then states will declare their willingness to display these capabilities. Sometimes it's easy to make troops, and there's more to offer than they ask. Unfortunately, in many cases, the opposite is true, the need is greater than the willingness of countries to contribute. Certainly different missions also mean that many of the world's countries, not even the most prosperous, are more willing to contribute to UN missions because they are financed differently. NATO-led missions are governed by a principle, which is described in English as costes lie where they fall (each one bears its own costs). True, here too, in some cases, another ally is willing to compensate for certain costs. But usually, the military forces work to specify the needs of the mission in terms of different capabilities, and then the states themselves declare their contributions and the Head of Mission, the Steering Organisation or the State will say which of these capabilities they offer will actually need and be ready to use.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U625	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U626	Thank you, Mr President. Good Secretary of Defense! Undoubtedly, the participation of our Defence Forces in this mission will play an important role in international cooperation with our allies and international partners. The region in which this mission operates has undoubtedly no meaning not only for regional security, but certainly also for transitions. But my question comes from what is happening right now. How would you describe Israel's relationship with Syria? Of course, if they can be called relations at all, because we know that Israel has actively intervened in the Syrian conflict. What is this situation now, and what effect does it have on the Golan Heights?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U627	Thank you. The relations between Israel and Syria in terms of classical transnational relations have been non-existent since 1948. However, there have been a number of clashes, mainly in the disputed territory, on the Golan Heights. This hatred has been through decades of varying temperatures. Certainly, the civil war in Syria adds uncertainty because, as we know, the Syrian government does not fully control the entire territory of its country. The tensions in the region are not only added to the Syrian civil war, but, as the previous issues have been pointed out, so is the situation in Iraq. The purpose of this mission, as has been said, is to monitor the fulfilment of the armistice conditions. Of course, a situation in which all countries in the region would have peace agreements and diplomatic relations between themselves and, by means of so-called normal political channels, would create prerequisites for lasting peace. But this is a broader issue, the discussion of which goes beyond the framework of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U628	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U629	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, In addition to those members of the Defence Forces who participate in this mission, does Estonia have any other contribution, such as the provision of accompanying services? Are there any accompanying services, such as consultants, military repairers, builders? Are there any other Estonians besides the participants in the mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U630	Thank you. Three observers from Estonia will participate in this mission so far. If the decision is taken in the Riigikogu, they will be accompanied by one senior staff officer. They are our contribution to this operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U631	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U632	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You mentioned the situation in Iraq in a number of responses, a heightened situation there, which undoubtedly has a wider impact in the region. But, as we know, years ago, our military mission took part in an international effort to stabilise the situation in Iraq and to introduce democracy in that country. What is going on there now obviously shows that it would now be appropriate to think about what the purpose of this mission ultimately meant. I understand that this issue is not directly related to this bill, but I am still taking this opportunity to ask you how you appreciate the outcome of this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U633	As has been said, this is not quite a matter of this draft and I am therefore not going to make an assessment. But I agree with the statement put forward in the question that it is certainly time for a thorough review of all the considerations at the time and the experience and lessons learned from this mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U634	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Secretary of Defense Sven Mikser! I would ask for a co-report from Tõnu July, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U635	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The domestic policy and domestic policy interests of a small country must be subordinated to foreign and security policy interests. For a small country to be able to successfully realise its foreign and security policy interests in the world, it is important that there is consensus. The general practice has been that security-political parliamentary mandates have been given by the Riigikogu and decisions on this subject have been taken in a spirit of consensus and benevolently. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union, being a party to the opposition, is still supporting the government in the process of dealing with this draft decision, based on this spirit. If you look at the practice of issuing mandates in the freed-up Estonian political history, it can be said that the spirit of consensus has been almost without precedent. It is true that the controversy about the Iraqi mission, which was around the world, the parliaments of the various European countries and the United States Parliament, also reached this Chamber, which took place in the final phase of the mission. A precedent arose when the deployment of Estonian Defence Forces in the Central African Republic was discussed as part of the European Union mission. It was a negative precedent, and it also collected votes against in the hall. It was under the leadership of Marianne Mikko that very serious criticism was made. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence, Sven Mikser, did not allow himself to be shaken by his desire to engage in daily political affairs in the Estonian defence policy, but gave his mandate to enforce the decision of the Riigikogu. This particular mission is two dimensions. One relates to Estonia's foreign policy initiative, the request to stand out more positively in the UN, the long-term goal of becoming a member of the UN Security Council as a temporary member. The active contribution to the missions is certainly one of the elements of this plan for the collection of support. The second dimension stems from the principle of collective defence, which provides not only that the allies are prepared to contribute to the security of the Estonian state, but also that Estonia is a country that contributes significantly to the international collective defence system according to its capabilities. Believe me, these resources are the expenses, equipment and armaments, this political initiative, but also the willingness to deploy Estonian Defence Forces, will also give real results in the form that our state is protected. The draft which is currently under way to increase the membership of the UN mission is certainly included in this objective, so it is appropriate for Parliament to support it and adopt a positive position. Speaking about the mission policy more broadly, Estonia's IRL believes that the missions must have an active state. Secondly, it is extremely important that Estonia contribute to the most important missions for both the European Union and the UN and NATO missions. This will increase our visibility and strengthen our partnerships. Above all, in the case of major, multi-state missions, cooperation with our major military allies, with the United States, with the United Kingdom, with France, and with other countries in the Western space, with greater military strength, is certainly extremely important. The next aspect of the mission policy is that, in the major missions of both the European Union and NATO, we must not only accept that we put out a flag in the form of one or two officers of staff, but we must be prepared to contribute to strengthening the element of military cooperation with actual military capabilities based on the physical size of our country. Looking at the European Union's major missions, as well as NATO's most important missions, it can be said that Estonia has pursued this policy. We've been an active country, we've contributed to the actual military capabilities. It has given us invaluable security and foreign policy capital, both in good allied relations and undoubtedly in the fact that our defence forces have gained practical experience. Decisions on missions are, on the one hand, important for the security policy of the country, foreign policy interests, but, on the other hand, there are always important people, defence forces, in making such decisions. The Riigikogu makes decisions about these choices when contributing to different missions. It is certainly always appropriate for all mission decisions to assess the risks that may arise from missions. The support of all Estonian society and the Estonian state to our mission soldiers during pre-mission preparation is extremely important. Their families must also be supported in the pre-mission phase. During the mission, it must be ensured that the Estonian Defence Forces have the best equipment available and that military measures are taken. It is certainly important to support the members of the Defence Forces and their family members after the mission. I am pleased that we were able to adopt this spring in Parliament a package of laws on defence vegetarians, which, when it comes into force in August, will give real support to these men and women. The opinion of the IRL is that there must be consensus on the mission policy. In the spirit of this consensus, we support this draft. Secondly, we consider it important that missions are guided by the longer-term security interests that I referred to earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U636	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 690 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U637	We're going to the next item. Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aasa, Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laasi, Lauri Luige, Lembit Kaljuvee, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Laurson, Rainer Vakra, Rannar Vasiliev, Remo Holsmer, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman begin second reading of the draft law on maritime safety. Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission, will give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U638	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the referral to second reading of draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act 646 at two meetings of the Commission. On 12 June, the Commission took procedural decisions and, on 16 June, the Commission had been invited to its meeting by Hindrek Allvee, the chief specialist of the Maritime Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and explained that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would withdraw its amendment which it had previously made. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications has consulted the Maritime Administration. It is likely that replacement vessels will not be used this year and, if necessary, conversion can be done manually. The law can therefore enter into force in general terms. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose the termination of the second reading, and when the second reading is completed, we will be proposing a third reading on 19 June. Then the draft could also be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U639	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U640	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You went over the committee hearing very quickly. Perhaps you will also tell those in the Chamber who will be very interested in this subject, which were the most important things that were discussed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U641	Thank you. A proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was prepared for the Commission at its meeting on 16 June. The draft was intended to be supplemented by an entry into force clause according to which, if adopted, the draft would have entered into force as a law on 1 January 2015. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications confirmed that the specialists of the Maritime Administration had been consulted again and that it was not necessary to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act. There is very little in practice for the replacement of liners, and it is possible to take into account, in a manual manner, the benefits of the replacement ship's waterway charges under the draft, without a significant increase in the administrative burden. In addition, the draft was editorially edited between the two readings. This is a completely exhaustive overview of the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U642	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U643	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! What exactly does it mean that it is possible to do the operation applying the discount manually? I mean what was said here at the date of entry into force. What does it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U644	I didn't understand the question. I'm sorry! Maybe you can do it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U645	Then a new question must be asked, for now there was such an answer. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U646	Good waitress! For a simple person, such regulation of God seems reasonable. But is the reason for such a change simply due to the awareness of the members of the Riigikogu of this problem or personal experience, or is there some litigation and major conflicts behind it? How can we comment on the arguments that have been raised so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U647	Thank you. It is not possible to comment on the current arguments, but indeed all members of the public have the right to initiate drafts on the basis of their best knowledge and personal experience. So I think it might have something to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U648	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U649	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As I recall, we were discussing in the Commission that this issue was raised because one company failed to replace the ship and had to repay and go to court with this dispute. At first, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed to let the court decide, but fortunately the members of the Riigikogu took the matter up and decided to bring clarity to the house. Why don't you comment on that and refresh the memory of how the debate in the committee went exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U650	Thank you, good questioner! I am here on the platform to give an overview of the Commission's debate at two meetings of the Commission: 12 June and 16 June. You weren't discussed at either of the meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U651	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U652	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A week ago, we also discussed a bill in this Chamber at night, which had been initiated by members of the Riigikogu. Very many questions were in this style whether the draft law initiated by the members of the Riigikogu has a sense of corruption or not. There's an analogous situation here. There's another financial situation. Was the Commission discussed, is there a sense of corruption here, or is it just such a victory of common sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U653	I don't know what bill you're referring to, which was discussed here one night last week. I have not felt at any of the meetings of the Commission that this draft has such characteristics. Of course, it has not been discussed in this way in any of the meetings of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U654	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U655	Thank you. Good waitress! I will try to redefine my question. The explanatory text states that there is little in practice of replacement of liners and that there is also a possibility of manual compensation for the fee of replacement vessels on the basis of the draft, without a significant increase in the administrative burden. What is it meant to mean, what should the manual application of this benefit look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U656	Thank you. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications initially assumed that the amendment of this law would involve a heavy administrative burden and that IT reforms would be needed, such as reprogramming. When they said that there was very little in practice of replacement of liners and that there was a possibility of manualisation of the replacement fee under the bill, without a significant increase in the administrative burden, that is exactly what they were thinking: there is no need for major changes in information systems or for reprogramming. If such situations even occur, these things can also be done manually. Sven Sester's got his hand up for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U657	Does Sven Sester have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U658	Thank you for noticing! You know, I have a question. I have asked for the opportunity to revisit this draft and I have to admit that there are no draft texts in either of the places designated for this purpose at the back of the Chamber. Could you somehow organise these texts for members of the Riigikogu? Maybe there's someone else besides me who would like to take a look at this text.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U659	Who else in the hall wants this bill? Let's get our hand up! Sven Sester's about to get this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U660	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U661	Waitress, stay, please, in your seat! You'll have another question soon. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U662	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Very often, there is such news in the Estonian media that an accident at sea has put a person's life at risk or that he has put his life at risk by reckless behaviour. Quite often, there is talk of large passenger ships, from which people fall or jump into the water under certain circumstances. In many cases, they have not been saved. What do you think should be done or what conditions in our laws specify that sailing is still safe for everyone? Do you see any opportunities here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U663	Thank you. In order for navigation to be safe for everyone, I believe that every possible measure must be taken to achieve this objective. However, your question has nothing to do with the procedure of this bill or with the debate of the Commission. So when I answered, I expressed my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U664	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U665	No, it's already been delivered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U666	But I want it too! I have a request. I think the addressee was wrong. I ask you to take the government's position to the waitress to introduce it to the Riigikogu. The questions in the Riigikogu are not Amorpost, where the letters move forward and backwards, but the people's representation is still introduced to the House of Parliament for the things they ask about.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U667	It was not such a procedural question, but a question for the waitress. I believe that this request can be granted. Sven Sester can now ask a question and then we will give the floor again to Urmas Reinsalu to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U668	I am not going to ask anything about the government's position now, because you do not have that position in your hands, at least you do not know what that position is. However, a large number of honourable members of the Riigikogu have initiated this draft at one point. After all, there is nothing bad or deplorable about it; from time to time, different proposals are presented in the Riigikogu, all the more so since this draft has been initiated by the members of several political groups. My question is, rather, why this is the way in which the proceedings were taken. Did the Ministry consider that if it had come itself with similar proposals, the procedure would have taken more time? Or are there other reasons? As a rule, draft laws are usually presented, I repeat the Ministry or Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U669	Thank you. I think it will be easier for you to ask this in your group, for example, of the MP Peter Laurson, because he is one of the initiators of the draft. I, as the moderator of the Committee on Economic Affairs, really do not know how to comment on the start of these 17 parliamentarians in solving this problem. I used the phrase by Priit Oniona, who said that if there was a problem, the ambassadors would be full of time to solve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U670	Thank you. Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U671	Dear waitress, I'll look at the explanatory statement. I understand that this dispute between operators and the Maritime Administration has arisen from unclear wording. Let's say that's true. The interpretation of the Maritime Administration has been that such an advantage would not be necessary for the replacement of vessels. Now we're going to complement that law. I think that this is a necessary addition; this interpretation for the benefit of businesses makes sense. But I'm still asking. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law has no financial implications. In view of the interpretation of the Maritime Administration, which is to the detriment of businesses, is the money we lose per year included in the budget for 2014, 2015 and 2016 or not? I do not want an answer with the precision of the euro, but I want to know the magnitude of the financial burden we are talking about with regard to the interpretation of the Maritime Administration as implementing the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U672	Thank you. It's a replacement. If this money had been asked again, the cost would have been borne by the undertaking. Once the annual amount has been calculated, it should be taken into account that the legislative amendment currently under discussion has no financial impact. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I count one figure. Under the current regime, the replacement would amount to EUR 240000 for the waterway charge that should have been paid again. Yes, indeed, I understand that otherwise there would have been a double charge in the order of EUR 240000, as I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U673	Thank you. As manager, I exercise my right to say that I remember that Urmas Reinsalu's questioning order was right there. Does Urmas Reinsalu want the waitress to read the government's position now? I don't see a reaction. He does. Now, please give Urmas Reinsalu a microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U674	Thank you. I'd be happy to stay politely at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U675	Got it. Kaia Iva, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U676	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is already the chairman of the Commission and the lead manager. The second of the amendments to be made is as follows: 'paragraph 11 of § 5010 is supplemented by paragraph 11 as follows: 'In the event of replacement of a ship engaged in regular voyages by another ship, for the purpose of applying the distinction set out in § 504 (22) of this Act, the shipowner shall immediately inform the Maritime Administration of the need to replace a vessel engaged in regular voyages. 'Please describe how this information must look, what must be done immediately! What is a sufficient form of notification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U677	Thank you, good questioner! An e-mail with a digital signature, for example, could be expected to be sufficient form.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U678	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U679	Thank you. Once I have asked my question, the honourable waitress can tell me the government's position immediately. So I will try to be very brief. I've now gotten to know the government's position. However, there are references here to impacts, including financial impacts. However, the explanatory memorandum submitted by the initiators of the draft is neither an impact nor a financial analysis. It says here that the Maritime Administration needs to develop a new information system, and it has also referred to a possible reduction in the income of the waterway charges. Are there plans to carry out more in-depth impact and financial analysis during the draft procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U680	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U681	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The bill, which created a very passionate debate, is an epoch-creative for two reasons. First of all, Estonia is a maritime state, but our maritime sector is in a rather poor state. It must be acknowledged that operating with ships flying the flag of Estonia is not a very popular activity. We are certainly forced to initiate a debate on this issue in the Riigikogu. There have been individual attempts to regulate maritime affairs, but then the coalition parties have said that at present there is no need to make any concessions to maritime affairs, because this is a natural part of the economy. At the same time, the most important aspect of the creation of the epoch is that this bill has been initiated by a group of members of the Riigikogu, united by a single understanding. These are members of the union of transit and logistics of the Riigikogu. It's a very active group. At our recent meetings, we have been very aware of the importance of maritime affairs, railways and also ports and their impact on the Estonian economy. As a result, I am extremely pleased that for the first time in the very long time that I have been in the Riigikogu, a draft has been brought here, which has been initiated by delegates across political parties, and there are quite a number of opposition members among them, but this draft has not been put in a drawer. This kind of cultural change is what makes me claim that this bill is an epoch-creative one. Let's think, even Arto Aas, Remo Holsmer and Kalev Lillo have signed here, who we could consider to be the people who will never stand up to the ruling Prime Minister and government of our party. Now they've dared to do it. You see, by involving such people, we have proved successful. The draft is pending, because it is actually a very sensible draft. That's why I dare say it again. What is important is that this draft will enable Parliament, for the first time in a long time, to show that MEPs are the highest authority and that the government must carry out the tasks that MEPs propose to the government. For this to be the case in the future, I call on Members of Parliament to set up support groups and associations, more and more. Then perhaps the questions that we will get out of it will disappear, whether there is a sense of corruption here, and whether anyone should immediately go to jail after something very substantive is done in a positive way. It's not like that. I call for this draft to be supported because it is a very strongly restorative draft of the actual content and status of Parliament, but at the same time it contributes greatly to the development of Estonian maritime affairs. This is a fair bill that does not significantly damage or affect the state budget. If I break a gun and I need someone to protect the country from, I'll take the other gun. That is exactly the same principle in this draft. If one ship broke down, I'll take another ship, but it can't be followed by punishment, especially financial. Let us support this draft and welcome the start of a new parliamentary culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U682	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U683	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I see that this draft has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu and they are from different political groups. The representatives of all four groups of the Riigikogu are beautifully written as draft performers. This is a consensual draft. But my question is that the Government of the Republic normally submits drafts. What is the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft? It is possible to read the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the explanatory memorandum. But what is the government's position on this bill, and why didn't the government present it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U684	However, we do have the government's position. Ask me again later, then I'll tell you what it's like.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U685	If there is one, you can give it to Mr. Seeder right now. This document is in this hall. The Virgats will assist you, and you will immediately receive this position. We're moving on. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U686	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, first of all, thank you and the other MPs who have submitted this draft. It is very reasonable that, if Members see a problem, they will also try to find a solution to it. The government's position is about to be revealed. There was talk about the Ministry's position. Probably the problem wasn't new to them, as I understand it. I refer to Mr Tõnis's question. I did not understand whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications commented on why it was tried to solve this problem through a dispute in order to find out, but not to take the initiative to regulate the legal situation and offer a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U687	Thank you. At these two meetings of the Commission, the content of which I will report to you from this speaker, ladies and gentlemen, this issue was not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U688	Thank you. Is Urmas Reinsalu a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U689	Thank you. The question is simply that someone who asked questions was interested in the government's position, and then a good waitress said that the government's position would be later.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U690	Thank you, good questioner! You referred to the reorganisation of information systems. Indeed, this assessment was carried out by representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They also proposed that the draft act be postponed until 1 January 2015. However, by the time of the last meeting of the Commission, they had come to the understanding that ship replacements were very rare in practice and that these changes could be entered manually, meaning that no IT changes were needed and consequently no costs would arise. In this sense, there is no need to plan any financial analysis here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U691	Thank you. Good speaker! This draft has, as we know, been initiated with a view to achieving greater legal clarity. The purpose of the initiators of the draft act has also been that no point would be ambiguous. Did the draft procedure mention that if the replacement takes place in the last month of the year, what happens to the replacement fee, if the draft stipulates that the replacement itself will be in the last month of the year? Was the possibility that it would be in the first month of the following calendar year also considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U692	Thank you. I didn't quite understand the point of your question, but if there's a substitution, there's a substitution. It doesn't matter if it's the ninth, tenth or twelfth month of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U693	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U694	Thank you, manager. Dear Commission waitress, My question concerns the entry into force of the law, which is scheduled to take place on 1 January 2015. I'm sure this is a pretty good bill. But did you have any other dates under discussion? Why should this entry into force not, for example, take place earlier? Did you discuss this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U695	Thank you, good questioner! I have been talking for some time about the fact that the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to bring the deadline for the entry into force of the law quite closer. The deadline is not 1 January 2015, but the law enters into force in general. So there's already a solution to your concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U696	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U697	Thank you. I will take this opportunity to ask the question more accurately. I quote from the text of the draft text on which I asked the question: 'If a payment notice has been drawn up before the replacement of the vessel at a lower rate of the waterway charge, but a higher rate of the waterway charge is due per calendar year, at the latest in the last month of the calendar year, a set-off of the waterway charge shall be made and a water fee shall be added to the payment notification to the extent by which the advance fee was less calculated. ' I had in mind, in my question, that since set-off is made according to the text of the draft at the latest during the last month of the same calendar year, if the replacement of the vessel takes place during the last month of the same calendar year, there is no legal confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U698	If it stands clearly in the draft law, as you have quoted, I do not see the possibility of legal confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U699	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U700	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the explanatory statement. In this House, we have constantly changed our rhetoric due to the improvement of transparency, comprehension and quality. I'll make sure there's two sections. The first is that those and those who discussed and decided were involved. There is no other substance in this text. Why don't you make it clear what the financial impact of this bill is this year? Secondly, what took place in the Commission during the debate on the impact assessment of this draft in substance? I have to admit that if you take these two paragraphs, the paper does exist, but the text does not reflect what will actually happen as a result of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U701	Thank you. I will answer the question of financial impact. I answered my question before my colleague, Mr Parts, that this financial impact would have existed had so-called double money been asked. This draft does not have any financial implications. Since you ask so nicely, I will repeat the review of the committee sitting. Is that what you want? At its meeting on 16 June, a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was prepared for the Commission to complement the draft with the entry into force provision according to which, if adopted, the draft law would have entered into force on 1 January 2015. At the meeting of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications confirmed that they had consulted once again the specialists of the Maritime Administration and that it was not necessary to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act. There is very little in practice for the replacement of liners, and there is also a possibility of manual compensation for the fee for replacement vessels under the draft, without a significant increase in the administrative burden. This is an absolutely exhaustive overview of the meetings of the Commission which I have to deliver today from this chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U702	Thank you very much. Urmas Reinsalu, second question. That is not the fourth question, he also had two procedural questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U703	Time shall be allocated according to the content of the questions. Thank you for your correct answer. That was pretty much explaining. I think there really is no particular problem with the content of the draft, but my question concerns the legislative technique. We've already reached the point of maritime safety that we have articles in the law that are to the tenth degree. It is likely that there will be a real need for a new comprehensive revision of the Maritime Safety Act. Was this subject being dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U704	Thank you, good questioner, for the question. This was not the case. But for the sake of the verbatim, I will answer one question I have not answered before. The Government of the Republic made a decision on the draft on 15 May. On this basis, an opinion was received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications by the lead committee, which supported the improvement of regulation, what we are dealing with here today. So the question of a good colleague, Mr Seeder, has now been answered exhaustively. I knew that the government had supported the draft, but I really did not have that position in front of me at the moment, and I did not know if there were any comments. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Government of the Republic supported the improvement of legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U705	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. We're gonna start negotiations. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U706	... then I think this trend will quite certainly continue. Just as so far Estonian sailors have been greatly appreciated, so it will continue to be. However, I cannot quite accept that, as the only country in the European Union, we are a country with no ships under its flag. Yes, we have a very uniform and principled tax policy, but I think that the key to the next Riigikogu elections should be to consider whether it is not possible to find a solution here for the ships to come back under the Estonian flag. This is not just a matter for shippers and shipping, it is a broader issue that also affects other areas. So let's all think about it here. But I congratulate the drafters, and I certainly support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U707	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Liisa-Ly Pakosta! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U708	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to your colleagues for once again having reason to admit that members of the Riigikogu are able to initiate very good and constructive drafts! All the more so since the Baltic Sea is indeed one of the most densely nautical areas in the world. I consider it appropriate to once again express my condolences to the loved ones of all 852 people who died in our greatest peacetime disaster, the disaster of the ferry Estonia. In addition, it should be recalled that Tarmo Kõuts claims that the Gulf of Finland alone had only 250-300 dangerous incidents during the winter months 2002-2003. All of this shows that the subject we are dealing with, that is, maritime safety, is vitally important. However, the question I would like to make is the following. If we place ourselves in the position of the ship owner and look at what has been said on this mountain, the picture will be relatively written. The Maritime Safety Act was last amended on 9 May and 16 April by the dates of entry into force. Maybe it won't hurt if I count the dates when the amendments to this little law have entered into force. Perhaps then we will understand how difficult we have actually made life for shipowners with an incessant need for repair. These dates are as follows: 1 January 2003, 1 January 2004, 8 January 2004, 25 April 2004, 5 June 2004, 3 June 2005, 1 July 2005, 18 November 2005, 1 June 2006, 16 November 2008, 1 July 2009, 10 July 2009, 1 January 2010, 20 October 2009, 1 January 2011, 1 January 2011 (with the indication that the amendment will enter into force on the day fixed by the Council of the European Union in its Decision repealing the derogation for the Republic of Estonia under Article 140 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union pursuant to the Decision of the Council of the European Union of 13 July 2010), 1 October 2010, 1 January 2011 (later this date of entry into force was amended and the new date of entry into force will be 1 July 2011), 2 January 2011 (partially this amendment entered into force on 1 January 2012), 18 March 2011, 1 January 2014 (the new date of entry into force was amended, 1 July 2014), 14 July 2011, 1 January 2012, 1 January 2012 (i.e. a different date of entry into force), 1 September 2012, 1 July 2013, 1 July 2013 (partly 1 January 2014), 1 July 2013, 9 June 2013 (partly 1 January 2014), 1 January 2014), 1 January 2014 (the entry into force date will be partially amended, new), and the last of 1 July 2014), and the date of 1 July 2014. Most of the time I was given was spent reading these dates of entry into force. The point of my speech is that, if we look not only at this vital law, but also at all other laws, in terms of the quality of the law, the aim should undoubtedly be to achieve a situation in which, in matters that are very important and require investment, but also in matters relating to the life, health and safety of people, the law would be of a higher quality in that sense, so that the dates of entry into force of the various Acts would not be so close. We may think that one vessel owner has a thousand other concerns than the date on which, in part, in full or depending on a decision of the European Union, one or another change will enter into force. Attention must also be paid to the fact that some changes are limited to the exact point in the law that applies to which ship. Some points also apply to boats which are simply used to spend leisure time, with the length of the boat being 2,5 metres. These are boats whose owners may not even be aware of this law, not to mention that they will be able to comply with the constant changes in the Maritime Safety Act. What can be done, for example, with § 16, which literally says, in itself, very nicely that the ship is fit for navigation when it is built in accordance with good sea practice? I believe that this knowledge has existed in practice since the first ships were built. Of course, maritime practice has become better and better in history. However, the question in itself is whether such principles of good practice and good will are justified and worth repeating in law. But I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu once again, thanks to whose work another entry into force is supplementing this long list. We hope that the following amendments to this law will still come after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U709	Thank you very much. Now, please, call the Helir-Valdor Seeder. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U710	Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U711	The answer is that I do not think so. I think that the initiators of the bill have been based precisely on the fact that the Maritime Administration would not be able to ask for double money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U712	Thank you. Sven Sester, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U713	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! In the process of handling this bill, I note a tendency that has been increasingly evident in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications recently. I'd call it a slight twitch. Why do I think that? I am now looking at the protocol and I see that at some point the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has made one proposal, a little later at the same meeting, he has stated that he is still withdrawing this proposal, but the proposal he has made may not be a good one. For ferry traffic, there have also been very different signals from the mouth of the same person within one day, which are very conflicting. Here's my question. Perhaps you will give an overview of what actually happened in the Commission and of the changes in the mind of the Minister and the officials when a signal was given at one point, but a little later we have seen that there is a debate against ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U714	Thank you. The minister was not present at these two meetings. However, I do think that the officials were determined to allow the Maritime Administration as much time as possible to make changes to the restructuring of information systems. However, when it came to the view from the Maritime Administration that in practice the replacement of ships is very rare, I think, a consensual understanding was reached that there is no need to postpone the entry into force of the law. Even if there is a need to replace a ship, it is possible to record it manually. This means that since major reforms in information systems do not need to be undertaken, additional costs will also be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U715	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U716	Thank you, good manager. Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I believe that for Estonia, as a maritime state, all amendments and amendments to legislation that increase maritime safety in our coastal waters and around our territory are undoubtedly extremely important. It is believed that this addition will also serve this purpose. However, there is not enough talk about maritime safety in this Chamber, and I take this opportunity. We are known to be in a very dense shipping area. Does the Committee on Economic Affairs intend to take a closer look at the developments that are taking place in the area of maritime safety, or have you already done so before?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U717	Thank you. We have had the opportunity to get acquainted with this situation and we will certainly be familiar with it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U718	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U719	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It was not clear whether the government had this information when reference was made to even higher costs and the development of the information technology system. When did the Maritime Administration or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications receive this information that the implementation of this system does not require an IT solution, but can also be done manually? You have rightly mentioned on several occasions that these cases, when ships have been replaced, have been very rare. Did the Commission have any talk, or have you learned about the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Maritime Administration how many of them have happened in the year? If there are few, how many is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U720	Thank you, good questioner! Just as I answered the question of a good colleague, Deniss Borodichi, these situations are very difficult to predict. We do not have precise figures as to how many of these have come in practice or could occur, nor was this data reported at the Commission meeting. But you also asked when they came to that position. The answer is that they reached this position or at least expressed that position at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 16 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U721	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U722	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be standing on the remote today. Indeed, the logistics working group, which has been very active for over a year, has been able to bring an important draft to this hall, which should help in the future to prevent logistical misuse and mistaxation, particularly in shipping. But I'm going to the water road fee now. Waterway charges are known to be charged for the use of navigational arrangements, icebreaking and information services and infrastructure installed on this waterway to ensure safety. This fee cannot be charged twice if the ship can only come to port once. Until today, the Law on Maritime Safety has made it possible to charge this fee twice. If a liner had been paid for a waterway charge and the ship went to repair, the ship that replaced the same route, which was just as large, had to pay that fee. That was unfair. Why couldn't this irrational situation be resolved in a direct discussion with the Maritime Administration? That's a strange question. The Maritime Administration could reasonably have said, in the same definition of a waterway charge, that this fee could not be charged twice. Two ships didn't go to the port, only one ship did. But what does it mean if the reward is taken twice instead of once? Competitiveness is declining. Those ships that had to pay twice were no longer competitive with those who paid once. Such behaviour may have resulted in some companies simply losing their jobs. The ships aren't being repaired just for fun, the ship has to be under proper technical control. Therefore, a double fee should not be charged. A similar situation, which does not take into account the rates, is emerging on the railways. In case of loss of specialized fuel, it is not reported that in fact... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U723	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U724	Because of the use of specially labelled fuel, rail transport is competitive at all. If compensation mechanisms are not designed, rail transport can be so damaged that only passenger train traffic remains on the rail, which is subsidised by the State, but the revenue for this is largely attributable to freight transport by the State. The setback due to the loss of special-marked fuel can be nine million euros on the railroad, which is a lot of money. We can see how efforts are being made to get a million euros in the budget, but if special-marked fuel is lost with one finger stroke, an additional nine million euros could be created. I hope that such a finger in the law on maritime safety was not intentionally done. It was rather a fingernail that arose in the process of creating the previous law. But after a few years, how great could these losses have been if the transit and logistics community had not discovered it and reacted! It was fortunate that the representatives of all the political groups were in agreement and found that the injustices that were possible in the interpretation of the law must be quickly removed and brought to Riigikogu plenary. Such initiatives, which help improve logistics in Estonia, should not be exceptional; they should not only be made by the association of transit and logistics, but also by the topic of how to make the economy more efficient, should be systematically discussed by the political groups at their meetings. Of course, when setting the date of entry into force of the law, the Commission remained a little modest. The law could have come into force immediately. The Commission had found that there was no administrative burden with the entry into force of the law, so it would not have been worth putting the law into effect at the beginning of the following year, which could have taken place at the beginning of July, after the law had been adopted. But it's a good thing this bill has come to this. We support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U725	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I shall summarise this draft by moving on to a single person in general. What do I mean by that? First of all, I will talk in a few words about the Estonian maritime sector as a whole. I may not be objective, making a reverend for the former Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, who is my party companion, but I am doing so completely sincerely. In fact, Juhan Parts called a maritime council a certain time ago, which has started regular meetings and discussed several problems of Estonian maritime affairs. The question is that several shipowners and entrepreneurs who, to a greater or lesser extent, are involved in this activity, say that Estonia, as a maritime state, is more of a slogan on paper or a slogan, not a reality. Once again, on this subject, I think that we should come to agreements that provide for changes in law to encourage Estonia's return as a maritime state by making certain amendments at the level of national ambassadors in the Riigikogu in the near future or under pressure from the Ministry. Today we have to say that there are not many ships flying the flag of Estonia anymore. As a result, very many people who work in the maritime sector, on ships, do not actually pay taxes to the Estonian state budget because of Estonian fiscal policy decisions. That was the general part of my speech. Now I will come to the lonely one, or I will talk specifically about Bill 646. First of all, I would like to mention the initiation of the bill. I, too, believe that this is a very positive example. There are not many drafts that begin at the initiative of the members of the Riigikogu and also go to adoption as a law. As a general rule, speed is the norm in such a procedure; for some reason, this procedure may be uncomfortable for the ministry and there are also third reasons which are irrelevant for this example. Actually, the purpose is consecrated by the means. In the words of the previous speaker, Peter Laurson, I also consider it reasonable to put this bill into practice. I would like to speak once about the extent of the impact of the draft, which has already been discussed here in the round of questions and answers. If you look at the explanatory statement and the position of the government that has been sent to the members of the Riigikogu by letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we see that one case has been described here. The total amount is EUR 240000. But I do not understand whether we need to do this in the context of these changes in the near future... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U726	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U727	... changes at national level also in the Maritime Agency's information systems. I understand that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has at some point wanted to postpone the date of entry into force of this particular draft as a law. By now, he has withdrawn that wish. At the same time, he has stated that if regulations change, this will most likely also mean changes in information systems, which will require time but also financial costs. It would certainly be interesting to know whether this financial cost is real and if so, what it will be like. Look at the last sentence of the decision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They make it clear that it is most likely that a change in the regulation of waterway charges could reduce receipts in the state budget. We are honest, the main rapporteur's answers, which were presented in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, did not reveal what the final impact would actually be on the state budget. It doesn't come directly from the government's point of view either. In turn, when it comes to the effects and, as we understand it, it is a negative effect, because it is hardly possible for any interest group to turn to the Riigikogu to request that decisions that are harmful to them be taken, so it is market organisation. Once again, I would point out that it makes sense to organise the market in this context, but we, as legislators, must take the view that, when adopting one law or another, especially when it comes to the impact on the state budget, when it comes to certain incomes, we would do well to know which item of expenditure and to what extent we are in contact with. Finally, I will refer to the proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the procedure. It is very good to read in the same way about the activities that took place between the first reading and the second reading. We see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has presented a proposal at some point, and later it has withdrawn its own proposal at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. At least we can see the timeline. At the same time, it also raises a question for me. If the same institution makes different moves in a very short time, then why one or the other... [[The bell.]] Time's up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U728	Yeah, it's over. Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U729	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When the previous speaker moved on to a single story in general, I am going in the opposite direction, alone to a general one. First of all, I am not original, but I would also like to thank from the heart the transit and logistics community, who has brought this draft before us and has found a notch in the law that needs to be repaired and improved quickly, which we should be able to do nicely here together, regardless of party membership. So congratulations to everyone! But that's not the end of maritime safety. I have been in contact with the owners of the recreational craft and I know that, after today's amendment of the law, many concerns and questions remain in the air and are waiting to be resolved. Many subjects do not concern the Chamber of Riigikogu or the laws, but I think they still need to be mentioned. What, then, are the concerns and joys of a small shipman? The greatest concern about safety is the lack of marking, or in fact, for small ships. Labelling is incomplete and this situation is very dangerous. We have had accidents before, which you might think many of them could have been missing if the labelling had been better. It should be clarified whether the Maritime Administration does not have the resources to do so or what is the issue. In fact, at the beginning of each season, every spring, many dangerous places and stones should be remarked. Winter does its job, but in the spring they sail by the hours, and that's how accidents happen. Maritime maps are also a problem. Foreigners have a problem where to get a new and fresh map of the sea. Our people know where to get it, but it's gotta be bought with money. Here is the place of thinking whether the maritime maps updated each year could be available free of charge or at least easier to access to improve maritime safety. Either way, they're worried about you. There are problems in small ports. It may be a source of joy that small ports will come and the number of tourists will increase, but once the ice has gone and the snow has melted, in small ports the soil has come to the port on many occasions and the port needs cleaning, but there is no more resources to clean up the shipping routes. With European money, a small port was built, but there will be no more resources to clean up the shipping routes in the future. So there are a number of things that worry small ships. Everything I've been talking about, of course, concerns small ships, no ships at all, no major ships, no major shipping routes. Those are the concerns of the small ships. But I think we in this hall should think about them, too. I shall now go to a more general point. What is the future of Estonia as a maritime state? Here, I'd be a little more optimistic. The Maritime Academy has been moved to Tallinn University of Technology. The Committee on Culture attended the Technical University and the Rector gave us, at least in my opinion, a comprehensive overview of how the marine academy's study programmes and programmes are progressing, how they are invested and have already been invested. If currently approximately 3000 Estonian sailors work abroad, under foreign shipowners...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U730	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U731	Thank you. So, about EUR 250,000. I have another question. This draft has been initiated by the Riigikogu Transit and Logistics Association. Is this the only interpretation that has emerged in practical life after a change in the system of waterway charges? As a Commission waitress, you must have met the market participants and have an overview. I also have a sub-question. I know that certain complaints were made by this shipping company, which offers a fairly specific service in the Baltic Sea. His home port is Sankt-Peterburg, and he organises interest trips to Tallinn, Stockholm, Helsinki. Its argument has also been that it has been treated worse in terms of competitiveness than other shipping companies carrying passengers. Maybe give us some information about this, both the general picture and the particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U732	Thank you. I have to repeat myself. I am here on the floor to give an overview of the meetings of the Commission which took place on 12 and 16 June. These issues were not addressed at these meetings. However, I believe that the initiators of the draft will have a total of 16 delegates, including at least one member of the IRL, who is very well aware of the problem you have referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U733	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U734	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There was a question of budgetary implications. But let's think about the substance of the bill. The replacement of a ship is often not dependent on the owner of the vessel. If the ship breaks down, it needs to be replaced. Do you think it is even possible to predict how many ships this will be necessary? I have another question. This remuneration also depends on whether a ship with a higher or lower rate of waterway charges will be replaced. The effect can be positive or negative. Do you think it's even possible to plan this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U735	The situation was already improving, but now injustice is being restored. These people who have raised children have not been able to collect many years of work as a result, they have not been able to make a career because their working lives have been interrupted by raising children at home, they have received less pay, they have been on the labour market for less years, and therefore their pension is lower. Is this situation fair? No, it's not. It's very unfair. As we are talking about the bill that we are currently dealing with: justice must be brought to justice. I agree here with Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aasa, Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laasi, Lauri Luige, Lembit Kaljuvee, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Laurson, Rainer Vakra, Rannar Vasiliev, Remo Holsmer, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman. However, I consider it very important that we respect this principle everywhere, not only on this draft, but on all the drafts, and that we strive to ensure that our legislation as a whole is fair. Often that means, yes, higher costs. The law supplementing the law on maritime safety may also mean that the state will lose some income, but we will not fail to adopt it for that reason. Justice overwhelms the cost, the loss of income that this bill brings to the country. The same is true of parental pension. We must create a situation where mothers who have raised children would feel that the Estonian state is treating them fairly. They are right that this time, when they raised children at home, dignified citizens to the Estonian state, would be taken into account as valuable working time so that they would not have to cope with a lower pension than those people who have not taken on this obligation for one reason or another, who have had a better career and who have therefore had the opportunity to receive a higher salary and enjoy a higher pension. So I call on you to support justice in this and certainly in the next item on the agenda to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U736	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U737	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The initiation of the draft law on maritime safety was certainly a very worthwhile proposal from the members of the Riigikogu. However, it is high time the Economic Commission and the members of the Association of Transit and Logistics of the Riigikogu deal with maritime problems. The maritime industry plays a very important role in the Estonian economy. However, the procedure for the draft law under discussion today has revealed further problems that need to be resolved. One of these concerns tug services. International companies whose ship captains do not speak Estonian have to use a very expensive tow service in relatively common ports, such as the Port of Paldiski, where their ships dock almost every other day. Yes, these exams can be taken, but not in English, but only in Estonian. It is actually impossible for ship's captains in other languages to pass this test. Yes, we can, of course, talk about whether this is necessary at all, as the Estonian state earns a relatively large income from the tow service, but the Economic Commission could certainly carry out an economic analysis as to whether such a change would increase the flow of goods. At the same time, we have increased one trade flow year after year. This is not only about maritime safety, but also about the safety of human health and the environment. It's oil transport in the Baltic Sea. About 1995 around 25 million tonnes of oil were transported in the Baltic Sea, Estonia's coastal areas. In 2004, 110 million tonnes were already reached per year and the forecast for 2015 is more than 250 million tonnes of petroleum products per year. In the last 15 years, there has been a significant increase in the volume of tankers. Compared to 1995, the risk of oil pollution has increased at least five times. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U738	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U739	At present, the Estonian state is not ready to take effective assistance measures in the event of a major oil spill. I recognise that Estonia has a good relationship with neighbouring countries, Finland in particular. At the same time, we have a signed HELCOM agreement, which requires us to be prepared to deal with a major oil spill, which we do not have at the moment. I am a member of the Committee on the Environment. We organised the Commission's meeting in the autumn to learn about Estonia's capacity in this field. Unfortunately, I have to say that we are facing very serious problems. Over the years, the opposition has been talking about the need to set up an oil fund. At the same time, there are very many problems with how to deal with ships from countries that only fly in neutral waters. If certain ships do not have to pay the so-called oil fund tax, the Estonian ports, which handle oil products, have significantly increased these ports in recent years, are not competitive. The situation has improved considerably in recent years. New large tankers must have two bottoms. So we've improved our preparedness, but certainly not at enough speed. There have also been cases in recent years when an oil tanker has gone ashore. Fortunately, there has not been a very large oil spill. But the oil tanker is divided into parts and one part has more than 30,000 litres of oil. This means that if the wind is unfavourable to Estonia, we must be able to neutralise this oil spill for at least 24 hours. Can we do this? If it's very difficult and complicated, it's certainly not. That is why we, or the Committee on Economic Affairs, should be more serious in the area of maritime safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U740	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U741	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft currently under parliamentary procedure is, in itself, sympathetic, as it has been initiated by the representatives of all the political groups. In its influence and scope, it is obviously not central in terms of the economic environment and the transport environment of the country as a whole, but I think that the rational point is that practical changes as a parliamentary initiative are possible and are being made over political groups is very sympathetic in themselves. IRL's view of regulatory regulation of the economic environment is certainly such that the economic environment must, first, operate rationally. Overregulation is under no circumstances a solution. Secondly, in an economic environment, the rules of fair play must prevail. This means that these rules must be uniformly applicable and must not create a distorted competitive situation. Thirdly, there must be general legal values: legal expectation, legal clarity, equal treatment. There are no doubt a number of economic areas where the functioning of free competition is not possible, and these are areas where a rational approach must be particularly well implemented in the interests of consumers and taxpayers and in the general public interest. The principle of legal expectation is a value that we should not only address in economic terms, but it is a question of the functioning of the whole legal environment. The reason for this very thorough procedure of the draft proposal, or the incentive from the point of view of the IRL, is precisely that, next in Parliament's proceedings, there is a draft law which, in our view, does not, firstly, comply with the principle of legal expectation and, secondly, it is not fair in the human view either. Policy decisions are always made on the basis of limited choices, especially when it comes to resource allocation. However, from a broader perspective, the issue of all the drafts is that when the state gives the floor, it must keep the floor. The parental pension system was introduced in Parliament in 2012 in a consensual manner. There were undoubtedly debates about the different aspects of this, which solution is sensible, but consensus was finally reached. The problem of treating the different generations of parents differently has been solved jointly by applying the calculation of retirement years equally to all parents. This desire for the pension system to take into account the contribution that parents have made to raising children, so that they do not receive a lower pension because they have been at home because they have been raising children, also entered the law. The amount required for this purpose in the state budget is large: 86 million euros over three years. However, the amount available is not, of course, excessive from the point of view of a specific parent. The principle is precisely whether or not the state will pay the word. This pension supplement, which we jointly decided to pay parents two years ago to level out inequalities between these and the elderly, is EUR 120 per parent with two children per year. If we are now setting a precedent for the state to give the floor and the state to speak, this is an extremely poor precedent for the coherence and care of Estonian society. The coalition will solve by delaying the entry into force of the law into an indefinite future, referring to three years, its budgetary problems. However, there is no doubt that such a pattern of conduct provides no guarantee, no guarantee that this three-year limit could not be postponed further or that the decision to pay the pension supplement at all would be revoked. Therefore, when we talk about the economy, about human relations, about the functioning of the state, there are a couple of fundamental values in shaping the whole legal environment that we should adhere to together. First, respect for legitimate expectations. Secondly, the non-breaking of the word given by the state. Thirdly, if we introduced this system because it is more honest with pensioners who have raised children, let us not take a step that is actually damaging this value and is unfair. The long processing of the draft Maritime Safety Act and other good and good laws means protest, not because of our confrontation or our tantrum. We want the government union to take time to consider and we will try to find a solution so that we do not send a very serious and long-lasting signal to Estonian society. This bill does not concern one or a hundred people; it is currently estimated to affect more than 220,000 Estonian people. If we create a precedent that so easily can change subjective rights, then, believe me, it will seriously damage the feeling of our country, the feeling of our common community. So, guys, we're on the verge of one mistake right now. Believe me, if the mistake has not yet been made, it can be avoided. So we are looking together for ways to avoid this mistake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U742	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would first like to respond to what Mikhail Stalnukhin said here, who, unfortunately, has had to leave the Riigikogu hall in the meantime. He pointed out that, in his view, we have a maritime safety law because we have our own territorial sea and our country borders with the sea. I want to argue with that. This is certainly not the case, as § 1 of the Maritime Safety Act states that this law regulates the safety of ships and recreational craft and other vessels, and the safety of navigation in inland waters, as well as the safety of ships and the safety of navigation on waterways. It deals not only with the sea, but also with inland waterways and safety. So even if we didn't have a territorial sea or our country didn't limit itself to the sea, we would still need this kind of law. Perhaps we would not call it a maritime safety law, but a maritime safety law. With regard to this bill, I would like to say that it is a very good bill. When the previous speaker, Urmas Reinsalu, spoke here about the fact that our laws must be honest and that there must be legal clarity in them, I bring here a dimension. Laws must certainly be fair in their substance and they must also appear righteous. After all, the draft concerns that companies operating on scheduled services have been in an unfair situation. When a replacement ship is used on a regular service, it is as if the waterway charge has to be paid again. We all understand that this is not fair. The right situation should be put right and I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will support this draft. I'm going to draw a parallel here with a bill that we're about to deal with. This is a draft law amending the Pensions Act and the National Pension Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws and the Income Tax Act, which unfortunately also concerns the postponement of parental pension. At present, the situation with regard to parental pensions has been unfair. Women who have raised children and have been absent from the labour market will therefore receive a lower pension. We all understand perfectly that this situation is unfair. In order to eliminate this injustice, a legislative amendment was also made which was approved here in the Riigikogu. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U743	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U744	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a sea state and the coastline of Estonia is longer than the coastline of Germany. We may not think about it every day, but that's the way it is. For us, this is an area that is extremely important for the sea, for sailing at sea, for ships and for maritime safety. After all, Estonia has a merchant fleet, and there is passenger transport and professional fishing. Professional fishing takes place as long-distance fishing in the oceans, as trawling at sea and also as coastal fishing, which is an extremely important part of our economy, but also of our culture of small islands and coastal areas. Professional fishing also takes place in our inland waters, especially in Peips and Lake Võrtsjärv. It's a rarity in itself. We have ports: passenger ports, cargo ports, fishing ports and marinas. It must be said that we have not been able to make reasonable use of all this potential. There are certainly still reserves for development to exploit the possibilities of transit between East and West. I went to Kazakhstan a few years ago and met with the heads of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They were very interested in transporting grain through ports in the Baltics. However, for various reasons, which depend not only on our country and are not only linked to maritime affairs, but also to rail and many other areas, we have not been able to fully exploit the potential of our ports. It is certainly worth enjoying, for example, that the Ukrainian market is one of the largest fish sellers in Estonia. Speaking of absolute quantities, we are among the three largest together with Norway and Iceland. This will certainly make Estonia a great sea country. But specifically on the draft law on maritime safety, which is being discussed today, I would like to say that it deserves recognition that it is a cross-group draft, that the representatives of all political groups are among the initiators. However, I would like to refer to a deficiency in the explanatory statement. It does not provide a sufficient impact analysis, does not refer to the financial implications and budgetary implications of the draft and does not include the government's position. At the same time, I have been familiar with the government's position. It could be said that this draft is likely to have a financial impact on both the sector and the state budget. Less has been said in the debate on the draft law supplementing the Law on Maritime Safety about other threats that may exist outside the sea, but which it would also be appropriate to talk about here. I highlight the threat to the balance of the state budget. If we organise ferry transport at sea, as has been the case in recent months in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, when a choice has been made for incomprehensible reasons, which cost taxpayers more than EUR 80 million more than the choice recommended by experts, the Ministry of Economic Affairs officials, then we need to talk about a serious threat to the balance of the state budget. This money could and should be used much more rationally. There was also a brief discussion of this in today's Question Time, but I think we should definitely discuss this issue in the Riigikogu. After all, questions were left unanswered as to why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had not made such a proposal and why the government had not chosen a more flexible approach, or tried to take the initiative to extend the current agreement by a year or two. If it is feared that time and time pressure will not make it possible to save money and manage it sustainably, then the current agreement could be extended and a new call for tenders announced in such a way as to actually take the interests of the taxpayer into account. Interestingly, this amounts to EUR 80.09 million in the same order of magnitude as the amount that would be required to pay parental pensions in 2015, 2016 and 2017. After three years, this amount would amount to EUR 86 million. So this money, which the Government of the Republic has proposed to cancel the payment of parental pension until 1 January 2018, is hidden among the issues related to the sea. As a result of better management of ferry traffic, we would have this money, we would be able to implement the law already adopted and should not harm the interests of people who have legitimate expectations, those of more than 200000 Estonian families who would receive financial support through parental pensions. If the government is convinced that this law is a very silly law, as the Minister of Finance said at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who was also a member of the previous government, who sent this bill to the Riigikogu, if the government is convinced that it is such a silly bill that it is never wise to implement it, then it will be possible to increase more child benefits or the tax-free minimum by means of this money. At present, the government proposes to increase the tax-free minimum from EUR 144 to EUR 154, which means two euros per month more for a person. I think that this would be a much more sensible way to organise traffic and transport at sea and this would help to save the financial resources of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U745	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U746	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that this is a very good initiative, as the previous speakers have repeatedly mentioned. If there was a problem that the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications either did not want or did not bother to deal with or do not know why, then the members of the Riigikogu themselves initiated the draft. In my opinion, it is not the right approach that, if there is something unwritten in the law or there is something insane about it, it is said that let the court decide. In fact, it is the founder of the law who should know exactly what he meant when he did the law. At the same time, it is perhaps a less good example to set aside this good example. The Social Democrats who had previously been in opposition have repeatedly told us about open politics and road roller politics, about how everyone is rubber stamps, only they are good, and about a new policy that will change and get better when they come to power. What is reality? The reality has been that the biggest opponents of the road roller policy have itself become one of the major road rollers and rubber stamps have been added to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. It's kind of sad to look at it. But that's it. We are currently working on a draft law on maritime safety. Those who have followed this debate may get the impression that maritime safety means replacing only one ship on regular voyages with another. In fact, this area is much wider. Passenger ships, motorboats, yachts, race yachts travel alongside each other on the sea, lake and river, but there are also small children working out there in the watercourses. To be safe on water should be the main objective of this law. Different people on the water, such as boatmasters and hunters, have very different experiences. This was felt very clearly when Estonia regained its independence and gained access to the sea, which had previously been guarded by the border guard and which no one had access to. Then we could read the news more than a day, or at least once a week, about how someone had been hurt riding either a jet or a motorboat, about a ship on the rocks, about a drunken company going to have fun, and someone fell overboard, or about a boat. This showed that awareness has a very high share here. A lot of people didn't know how to be afraid of the sea. They were wondering what it was. Let's take the same example of the jet ski: If you still fly out of the water at a high speed, then at that point the water is not as soft and pleasant as it is, but it can turn out to be rock-hard as asphalt and broken bones can still be very much. There's been a lot of commotions, too. The main thing is that it overestimates its skills and underestimates the fact that currents and wind make the boat drift. The course may turn out to be quite different if you've thought about it. Especially when you hand over the steering wheel to a layman, saying you're going down to do something else, and he's going to hold the exact course.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U747	Thank you, Toomas Tõniste! Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U748	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U749	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U750	I should have asked you in time, but all right, we'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U751	Thank you. We've also heard that from time to time, some people jump overboard a passenger ship. For the most part, it ends with the death of a person. There's a lot to do here. But even if he falls into the water, it gives us a little hope of saving him. Although we have often heard a man get picked out of the water very quickly, he could not be saved. But when people fall on asphalt or pier, the situation is, of course, much sadder. I think it is also important for the owners of recreational craft to know, and they need to be reminded of the requirements imposed on them, especially those with a small ship built for their own use. If this ship has not been on the market for five years or has been put into service in Estonia before 1 May 2014 and does not have proper documentation and a tile installed by the builder, it shall determine the total length, width and height of the recreational craft and shall establish restrictions arising from the driving area, hydrometeorological conditions, the maximum load allowed, the maximum engine power permitted and the maximum number of persons allowed on board and shall carry them in the inspection report established under this Act by the Maritime Administration. For maritime and inland navigation, recreational craft and vessels of less than 12 metres in length must be registered in a traffic register or a register of ships and jet skis must be registered in a traffic register. A competition or training device which is used only during a competition or training in a special area shall be registered and marked by a sports federation. We could go on for a long time, but unfortunately, eight minutes is too short for this subject. Finally, I would like to congratulate once again those who initiated this bill and brought it to this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U752	Juhan Parts, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U753	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will later talk a little bit about maritime affairs, but I still want to use this bleacher and this moment to turn to respectable coalition parties. The Riigikogu's agenda today also includes a draft concerning our pension arrangements. The government coalition is, let us say frankly, in our view unexpectedly and incomprehensiblely determined to cancel one of the very important components of parental pension. We are not a party that would like to deal with parliamentary work of this kind. This was not an easy decision for us, we considered it at length in the group, but for two reasons we chose this path, and we will certainly continue to do so in the coming weeks and months. This should not sound like a threat, but a kind of gentlemen's call to the Socialists and the Reform Party to find such a statesmanly moment and to discuss it. Perhaps, apart from many other important messages, we can send the message to the Estonian society that we can acknowledge the mistake or listen to others and that listening is also useful in order to make some adjustments to our plans. I have been involved in many coalition agreements in my life and I know the risks to the quality of these decisions. That's what quality risks are. Such decisions are often boylike, in a closed room, and often with other brakes. In fact, this coalition has the problem of how to create a perpetuation cell in a rather difficult economic situation, so that many social benefits rise, after all, we all like it and taxes fall, even though the economy is shrinking. There is a need to look for some seeming substitutes, which actually result in most of these choices being very short-sighted. I don't want to start talking about roads, but in fact, many excise movements have been, to put it mildly, just stupid decisions. But that's it. The coalition has its own logic of action, and in order to maintain a gang spirit, it is also necessary to do foolish things. The issue of parental pension is a slightly more complex one. Of course, it may be said that the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance went to the elections and so on. But if we look at the developed European countries that we want to belong to and their very in-depth research and reflections on how, in the current postmodern, cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism as a society with fashion trends, to value family and raising children, it turns out that there are not very many so-called universal steps. One such, seemingly very simple, with a very fair step, is that if a mother or father has been at home with a child and has lost his or her period of employment as a result, his or her children will later be counted when he or she is given a pension. Imagine that, but there is no such thing in the Republic of Estonia! In fact, the dumbest part is that it was in Estonia during the occupation, but in the Republic of Estonia ♪ left the leaving Endel Eero and a number of other pension specialists just missed it. Parental pension means some sort of restoration of justice. In a situation where the demographic situation is worrying and the statistics are irritating, we are very upset when we consider such long-judged values for short-term 'political combinations'. Yes, a mathematical estimate can be submitted that what the Estonian state is currently able to pay an additional pensioner per child is not, after all, much money. Go to the grocery store once, and that money's almost gone. But even more important than this money, I think, is that we value parents who don't work and raise children. This is a father who has little children and sees his mother's work and contributions every day. We're just gonna push this value decision into the trash. I am not talking about the bile comments of a former colleague, Jürgen Ligi, that are embarrassing to hear. I will give an example of the maternity pension. There is a new coalition in Germany and there are similar demographic processes. Let's watch out for 20-50 years, these are very serious problems. Thilo Sarrazini's book 'Germany Goes Off' has also been published in Estonian, I recommend that you read it, which deals with long-term population processes. The first chapter of the new coalition agreement in Germany begins with the introduction of a maternity pension. Of course, we're working on drafts here. I came here to knock on the coalition's conscience so that a reasonable solution could be found so that the parental pension would not have to be postponed, especially given the very optimistic statements made by the members of the government. I think it would be a victory not only in our relations, but it would certainly be very good news for the people of Estonia before Midsummer Day and the summer begins that the coalition and opposition are not involved in pulling the childish and petty blanket on themselves. So I call on the Social Democrats and the Reform Party to think. Watch the football! We can move on to the agenda very quickly if you have a signal that you are prepared to hold talks on how to find a sensible solution to this very fundamental value decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U754	On the agenda we have a second reading of Bill 646. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U755	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U756	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U757	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are probably following this debate in your offices via television! Mr Parts stated the reason why we are taking the floor on such an important issue as the draft law on maritime safety. In some ways, I am grateful to be able to express my thoughts on this area as well. But I will add these figures to Mr Parts's speech on the number of people involved in the withdrawal of parental pensions. Juhan Parts spoke of value creation and of the fact that the current pension system does not really recognise parents who have had children during the Republic of Estonia, but recognises with the pension supplement those who have had children during the Soviet occupation and raised them. This is the injustice that the parental pension eliminates. I am pleased that Hanno Pevkur, who was Minister of Social Affairs at the time we worked out a parental pension, is in the Chamber. We argued for a long time about how to do this technically. I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, at the time, had his soul and all the strength in this matter. I understand that neither will his face be filled with joy if we demolish the system today that was fully developed. The parents who are expected to receive a real pension supplement, most of them mothers, are 226000. It's not just a few people. 226000 mothers are deprived of their parental pension. In three years, these parents will lose EUR 86 million. Given that they are all pensioners, this pension would be symbolic, but certainly an important financial contribution and recognition for the work they have done in raising children. So before I go to the subject of maritime safety, I will knock on the conscience of all members of the coalition, and perhaps especially of the social democrats, that this is the wrong step. If this decision were to be amended, as a party, we would be very grateful, but I think that the 226000 retired mother, who is directly affected by it, will also be grateful, and who certainly already knows or will know about this decision of yours. If you come to the draft law on maritime safety, as Liisa Pakosta said, this small but also important law has been very closely amended. It seems to me that this is a symbolic example that, although we have been independent again for over 20 years, this wound, which has been hit by our maritime culture, is very deep in society, especially when it comes to small boatmen and boat owners. Every summer, I try to sail between the Finnish islands with a couple of friends' little nests. It's completely mysterious how 80 kilometers north of us are so developed by the recreational craft culture! The question arises as our country or the development of a common culture, so that we too have the obvious existence of recreational craft and boats. The second question is how to change the culture that prevails at sea. Just before I gave this speech, I spoke to a good friend of mine who makes a living by taking people on short voyages. He said that there were very many specific problems that could be solved. For example, the fact that port fees are significantly higher in Estonia than in Finland and that it is much more expensive to keep a small ship, a boat. This means that for the development of maritime culture and also, I imagine, for the development of maritime safety culture, the country could do more. Since nowhere is the port business directly profitable, the state has put its shoulders on it. For example, let us look at Greece. There is, of course, such a climate that 24 hours a day and a whole year it is possible to sail the sea, but there are no port fees at all and this culture has evolved to a very high level there. But my friend considered a different subject even more important. For some reason, Estonian people have the understanding that travelling on the sea or going to the sea is something different than going to traffic with a car or a bicycle. He said that when people board, they would not sense that they were going under dangerous conditions, but that they would have the understanding that the ship was completely free. People think that they can behave completely freely on board the ship, starting from the fact that they can drink alcohol, and ending up with the understanding that all maritime safety requirements are designed by bureaucrats that they are not meant to save their lives. I mean, although this is another minor amendment to the Maritime Safety Act, the subject is much wider. Very often, we do not lose the lives of people who are fully viable because they do not comply with the rules that we impose here in the Riigikogu or at the level of the government, but because we do not have the culture that a single sea state and sea people should have. I think this culture was in a better place before the Soviet occupation began, and the maintenance of vessels travelling a little longer in coastal areas was prohibited by law because there was a risk of escape behind the Iron Curtain. But now we live in free Estonia and, despite the efforts of this government or several governments, our standard of living is rising. If people's material opportunities improve and the country supports and promotes maritime culture, then perhaps we may no longer have so much to deal with establishing formal rules, but people will understand that maritime culture is part of our culture as a seamen and a free people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U758	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! A little extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U759	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speeches that have spoken here for a long time, and I would like to summarise some of the thoughts that have been made in the speeches of the members of the IRL in this Chamber today. Point 1. Estonia is a sea state. This is not very economical, but it is quite pleasant from the point of view of national mentorship. Point 2. Estonia is a maritime state because it is located on the Baltic Sea coast. If Estonia were not on the Baltic Sea coast, it would not be a sea state. We warn you to call the Baltic Sea. This is a direct and very hostile anti-Estonian withdrawal. Point 3. If a country is on the coast of a sea, it must have a sea law. Nor can it be ruled out that if Estonia were on the coast of an ocean, it would even have an ocean law. You could go for it. But unfortunately, it's only a dream, so let's just limit ourselves to the law of the sea. Point 4. Normally, if a country is on a seashore, it has a ship. The merchant fleet is no longer under the flag of Estonia, but some still go fishing with the ship. We are proud of this because there are huge numbers of countries in the world, such as the Central African Republic, where there is not even this possibility. But now it only matters in the sense that if a country is on the coast of the sea and has a ship, it must also have a maritime law. The exception is that if a country is located by the sea and has even one ship, but it doesn't fucking sail the sea, it makes perfect sense if that country has a seaport law or even a seaport safety law. Point 5. Estonia has no maritime law and it is quite difficult to understand why this is the case. It is probably the fault of a hostile neighbouring country, but it is a separate subject for a much longer speech. Point 6. We don't have seaship law, but there's a maritime safety law. This is particularly a source of pride, because it means that Estonia has ships, which, on top of that, also sails. Point 7. Seafaring, by the way, is quite a dangerous thing, and our mutual pride is that we ache our hearts for safety. That is why the name of the law is not a vulgar maritime law, but a maritime safety law. Point 8. This law is extremely important, especially here and today, because if you do not want to listen to these speeches until the morning, you know what. Thank you, colleagues. Eight minutes didn't work out, but my time to prepare that speech was limited, just a quarter hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U760	Urmas Reinsalu, please! The speaker would also like more time. You can have three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U761	Thank you. A few moments ago, Erki Arrow was entitled to an answer. Please correct me if I'm wrong, but I got the impression that you gave him one minute, then you interrupted him and said that time was up. However, I read in § 70 (3) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act that there are two minutes to be received. Please specify how we had it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U762	In the round of questions and answers, if I remember correctly, my colleague Erki Nool spoke about a draft that was being processed last week, during which the sense of corruption was suspected. I didn't understand exactly what the bill meant, just like Palling did. The question was whether something like this could be seen in this draft. What I'm trying to say is that corruption is definitely something we have to pay attention to here. As bad as the sound of this word is, it is the content of the word, but I think we should think a lot about it in this house that, in addition to the word 'corruption', there should be an active sense and there should be another word 'competition'. There has also been a great deal of talk about this here today. If we look at this bill in essence, I believe that we are solving a substantive problem here, we are contributing to maritime safety and to the increase in competition between shipping companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U763	Mr Noolt was appointed in his speech. I understand he wants a word for the midterm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U764	Yes, my name was mentioned and a reference was made to the procedure of a bill last week. Last Wednesday or night against Thursday (the session ended at three o'clock) we dealt with the draft law amending the Waste Act, which had been initiated by four members of the Riigikogu. One central question for the members of the Riigikogu was why such a law is needed and whether there is a sense of corruption here. Why did I ask that question here today? One reason for this is that in recent days some articles have appeared in the media that call it into question again. If the members of the Riigikogu are able to bring the draft law on maritime safety to the hall so quickly and forcefully, then I wondered if there was anything to be done...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U765	Thank you. Time's up. Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U766	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable individual members of the Riigikogu who are in the Chamber and are watching the discussion concerning both the specific draft and, more generally, the work of the parliament and the steps that are being taken in the legislative process in 2014! These steps have caused considerable resentment, at least in the IRL Group, particularly as regards the exclusion of parental pensions that the current coalition wants to implement. Perhaps I will start by saying a few words about maritime safety as a whole and about what is happening in the wider border sea of Estonia. Mr Nool has already mentioned this issue, which is also very closely linked to the draft we are debating today. This is Estonia's ability to respond adequately to pollution and other disasters that have occurred since our release. Regarding pollution control, it can be said in a few words that before 2012, the situation was rather weepy, and Estonia did not have much capacity to respond to what happens in the event of major pollution. However, in August 2012, a multifunctional anti-pollution ship PVL-101, with the spoiling name General Kurvits, was transferred and completed with the support of the European Union. The cost of the ship was 33 million euros and its ability to carry out rescue and pollution response work in difficult weather conditions and also in ice conditions in Estonia was able to significantly improve the capacity to collect pollution. The ability to collect pollution is now 200 cubic metres per hour, and the length of the anti-oil boom is also significant. I must admit, this is certainly not enough. Estonia's ability to cooperate with neighbouring countries is, in fact, crucial even after General Kurvits has handed over to us. But I very much hope that the new financial perspective will consider how this capacity can be further improved and thus ensure maritime safety in the coastal waters of Estonia. The serious concern of the IRL Group is, of course, the issue of parental pensions that is being discussed today. Once again, there is concern about the negative decision that the government coalition wants to make. We are giving such a signal that injustice continues, perhaps we do not appreciate the work that parents do in raising their children. The idea of setting up an old-age pension was precisely that we value the work we are doing and the time we spend on raising children. On the initiative of the IRL, we wanted to provide both parents who are now raising children and those who have already raised children with an additional year of retirement. However, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats disagree with this. It's being postponed indefinitely. We know that the deferral period until 2018 actually means that this form of parental pension is intended to be abolished. We do not know what will be in 2018 and which government coalition will rule in Estonia. This ex-post zeroing of a decision that has already been authorised and formalised into law raises very serious concerns and cannot be accepted. I really hope they'll think it over again. You can do it on Midsummer Day. People may then feel happier and feel better and find that parental pensions are important for our parents, and this message will also be communicated to society at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U767	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U768	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U769	Did you want more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U771	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U772	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank all those members of the Riigikogu who initiated the draft law on supplementing the maritime safety law that we are discussing today. This draft will make our maritime industry more competitive by eliminating one completely unjustified charge for ships engaged in regular voyages. The intensity of the use of the waterway is one of the fundamental elements of the calculation of the waterway charge laid down in the Maritime Safety Act. The intensity of the use of the waterway must therefore also be taken into account for ships operating on a regular service. If there's a replacement, one ship gets off the line and the other one comes in, traffic intensity doesn't grow. On the condition that the number of ships and thus the intensity of the use of the waterway do not change when replacing vessels serving the regular service, there is no substantive basis for requiring an additional fee for the waterway. It is well founded that there is a clear exclusion from the possibility that, in the event of replacement of a ship engaged in regular voyages, the debtor would have to pay the waterway charge twice or even twice. Even if the bill deprives the state budget of a certain amount of revenue, the competitiveness of the maritime sector as a whole will increase. Reeders will be exempted from unjustified costs and will have greater economic freedom to relocate ships to optimise their network on line according to market demand. Regular ships mainly serve passengers and vehicles and passenger flows on scheduled routes are strongly dependent on seasons and weather, especially for tourist trips. Estonia's maritime competitiveness needs to be strengthened. Maritime affairs is closely linked to transit and logistics, where jobs producing the highest added value of the Estonian economy and offering the highest wage income are located. I would like to argue with my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, who said in his speech half an hour ago that maritime affairs do not bring in much, and the peculiarity of Estonian national identity is to talk about maritime affairs. According to 2010 data, 4% of all workers in the Estonian economy worked in the maritime economy in the narrowest sense, including 1% in ports, 1% in the tourism industry, 1% in fisheries, and 1% in passenger and freight transport. Although we know that there is a shipbuilding cluster in Estonia, its size does not make up 1% of employment. At the same time, when looking at the maritime economy in a narrower sense, its share of added value, in 2010, 4% of the workers working in the maritime sector generated 5.5% of the added value. Most of it was created in the port economy. The share of maritime activity in Estonia's employment differs from its share in creating value added. This shows that the maritime industry earns higher than average wages. These figures are not insignificant even now, but they could be much higher. Moreover, these figures only concern maritime affairs in the most direct and narrowest sense. In a broader sense, the maritime income provides a much wider group. For example, in the case of freight transport, carriers, chargers, storers, repackers, stevidors, brokers, ship suppliers, logistics are added. The movement of goods requires financial and insurance services, which the Estonian financial sector certainly wants to offer. Passenger shipping companies make a significant contribution to Tallinn's retail trade, taxiing, hoteling, catering, guide services, and I have even heard about the turnover of dental care and beauty services. The ship is the heart of the sea business and the sea business as one of the most important connections of the Estonian economy to the rest of the world is one of the supporting areas of the Estonian economy, the importance of which must not be underestimated. If the maritime industry is doing badly, other industries that rely on links, especially maritime connections, will also fail. In this sense, the role of maritime affairs must not be underestimated in the context of improving the competitiveness of the Estonian economy and stimulating economic growth. I am pleased that the Riigikogu has dealt seriously with the development of maritime affairs in previous years. The Riigikogu has adopted 'Estonia's Maritime Policy 2012 The aim of the maritime policy was to develop guidelines on maritime sectors in synergy in order to maximise Estonia's potential for the use and preservation of marine resources. The activities provided for in maritime policy shall aim to contribute to the development of the maritime sector, in particular by supporting the development of maritime business, improving the safety of navigation and other maritime activities and protecting the marine and coastal environment and marine cultural heritage. The objectives and activities set out in maritime policy are based on the view that maritime issues and their solutions are closely interlinked and need to be addressed in a coordinated manner. As maritime areas are divided between different ministries, they need to be dealt with in the Single Development Document in order to tackle problems effectively and to support the development of the sector. This approach is also based on the European Commission's Communication 'An Integrated Maritime Policy for the European Union', which calls on Member States to draw up integrated national maritime policy policies. The maritime policy document also gives us the vision of the maritime sector. It is worded as follows: "The Estonian maritime sector is a high-value-added, attractive and sustainable economic sector that ensures the preservation of the marine environment and contributes to the development of the coastal environment and lifestyle. ' Estonia's maritime policy also has a separate chapter on the draft law that we are discussing today. It's international passenger transport. In this area, the aim is to increase the number of passengers on international shipping routes. A very large proportion of foreign tourists arriving in Estonia come here by sea. Although we are expected to reach a saturation point in the number of these tourists, it is still possible to increase it. In the long term, it is necessary to ensure that the objective achieved remains stable. Maritime policy concerns the competitiveness of passenger shipping in this area. There is a need to ensure that our companies are competitive and motivated to increase the number of passengers. In this direction, we are taking one small step today when we are dealing with this bill, especially if we adopt it as a law. Although the maritime policy document does not plan direct subsidies for passenger transport as the most important activities, the task is to constantly monitor the situation in the passenger shipping market, and if it appears that measures supporting passenger shipping in other countries seriously undermine Estonia's competitive position, then we must intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U773	Tõnis Palts, please! Sorry, Tõnis Palts, wait a minute! Kaia Ival is a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U774	I have a procedural question in the sense that if this vote is not in line with the changes on the agenda, it may be legally invalid. I will ask the Chairman whether the motive of the government has been clarified as to why the bill that is important to the Estonian state and the people has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U775	According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Government of the Republic does not need to justify why it withdraws the drafts. Mati Raidma, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U776	The duration of the reception is two minutes. I hope they gave him two minutes. I can see when time is up on this screen. Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U777	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I take this opportunity to assess the situation of the transit sector as a whole in the debate on this bill. Why the debate on this bill? Talking about maritime safety becomes meaningless when there is no seafaring. If there's no transit, there's almost no shipping. Due to the activities of the Reform Party, our transit sector has been given real death blows. The action of this group, which has been able to implement such a small-to-small change, is really very good. I myself did not participate in this group, and I explained that the boys paint during the sauna wall when the house is on fire, but they should take fire trucks and start saving the transit sector. All of this began when Andrus Ansip's'smart' was moved by a bronze soldier who thought he was smart but actually screwed up. I recall the words of Andrus Ansip to the media and the public when he said that no one was buried in Tõnismägi but a couple of drunk Russian soldiers. It doesn't even matter whether it is right or wrong, but this speech by the Prime Minister couldn't have meant anything other than shutting down transit flows. This has been followed by the speeches made by Jürgen Ligi, who have repeatedly said that the transit sector is trivial and should not be taken into consideration. However, not all of this has been able to destroy the transit sector. Now Jürgen Ligi has taken up the final opportunity, and as a last effort, he has started to raise fuel prices in the transit sector, which is already almost, one can say, in agony of death. It is completely pointless and irresponsible to abolish the exemptions from excise duties on fuel, which affect rail traffic and rail transit as well as ship traffic. The new Prime Minister has not yet been able to contribute to the destruction of the transit sector. I call on the new Prime Minister to ask his party and the Minister of Finance to come to their senses. Once again, I would like to thank the group that has implemented this small change. But I also tell them that when the house burns, more important things should be dealt with than painting the sauna wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U778	Kaia Iva, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U779	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have been talking for a very long time about the law on maritime safety. It is quite clear that safety in any area is important. Maritime safety is all the more so because it includes potential sources of danger and damage that may arise for material assets, the environment and also for humans. My question to the waitress was precisely about the dangers to human life, human health. In any case, human life should be of value to us. The next item on the agenda today is also about human life, human rights and the protection of his or her rights. That's why I'm going to expand this subject a little bit. I'm a vigilante elected from Järva and Viljandi. Two weeks ago, Paide Vallimäe had an elderly year reunion. There was a working group where all the people had the opportunity to ask the members of the Riigikogu elected from that district about the decisions, laws and drafts that are being dealt with in the Riigikogu, which are planned or perhaps already adopted. Believe me, although the law on maritime safety is important, the questions were not from this point of view. The most burning issue in these people's minds was the announcement that the current government coalition, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats have decided to reduce their income, their pension. These people asked whether they were not important to the Estonian state, whether the fact that they had some expectation that they had taken something into account meant nothing. These elderly people knew very well that a few years ago the Riigikogu passed a law that provided that they too should be able to cope with a higher rate of maternity pension. Precisely, before that, we know that the supplementary pension was granted to the mothers, but also to the fathers, when the mothers did not take it out for the children who were born before Estonia regained independence. The law that we passed extended it to everyone, so that pension supplement was supposed to work for all the children. Similarly, it has already entered into force that the additional amounts for children born from 2013 onwards will be included in the second pillar of the pension. But these people also knew very well that what they had been waiting for should enter into force on 1 January 2015. In particular, each mother should be entitled to an additional pension for each child for the amount of one year of seniority. A family who has raised two children should receive an additional pension of EUR 120 per year. The plan to postpone the entry into force of the maternity pension for three years will take an average of 360 euros out of their families' pockets in three years, but this is the case in an average family where two children have grown. Those parents who have raised more children, have been longer away from working life and have been able to raise less pension assets, are punished with much higher amounts. It is now appropriate to ask whether this is fair. When we make such decisions, do we keep human lives? I am absolutely convinced that such a step is immoral. This is also a precedent in the history of the Estonian state when pension is reduced, which has already been granted by law to pensioners. True, they haven't started to get that extra yet, but this law is already in force. You shouldn't do that! We don't have any major disaster right now. Even in the worst years of crisis, when we were in trouble, we calculated, figured and calculated, and we managed to keep our pensions untouchable. Now all of a sudden we can't do it. I think that our parents, who have raised children and spent time and resources on this, deserve much more respect than this intention involves. Therefore, today in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we are forced to speak at length during the debate on the current draft, to ask more questions and to use all democratic means to draw the attention of the government coalition to the fact that the next draft, which is on the Riigikogu's agenda, is what wants to take a historic, irresponsible and immoral step. I call on you to think deeply and give up this plan. We have been given another parliamentary opportunity to draw attention. I propose, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, that the second reading of Bill No 646 on Supplementing the Law on Safety at Sea be discontinued. I know that this draft has been drawn up in a very large consensus between the various political groups. It has been approved by all parties, and it seems that it could soon be fully mature for adoption as a law. But this vote, and the opportunity to take a ten-minute break before it, could remind me of what I referred to earlier. Let us be responsible, let us preserve human lives, let us spare them! However, by handing over the proposal to interrupt reading, I propose to my honourable colleagues that we vote not in favour of this proposal, but against it. I call on you to oppose the interruption, because the interruption is not our real will, but it is our parliamentary opportunity to draw attention to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U780	Time's up, time's up, time's up. Thank you, Kaia Iva! Inara Luis has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U781	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 646 be terminated. However, the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to interrupt the second reading, which they have done in writing. Orally, they had the same suggestion. [[Kaia's intercom.]] Thank you. That is what we need to vote on. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U782	Thank you. You took my microphone, I left a sentence in the middle of it. We would like to vote on this cut-off proposal, but before that, we also want a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U783	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I really do have a procedural question. I understand that we are discussing here the draft law 646, the draft law on supplementing the law on maritime safety. I have tried to be in the Chamber as much as possible during the debate on this bill and I have followed this whole debate here. Both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party have been in opposition. If we have wanted to hold back the adoption of some kind of law, then we have at least tried to give speeches in discussions on certain draft laws that correspond to the subject. Today, Question Time started with the question of political culture. Can you answer me about what is going on in this Chamber right now when the debate on the draft law on maritime safety talks about land and weather until the parental pension? Is it political culture, political culture, or noble patriotism?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U784	Honourable Riigikogu! [[The noise. The bell.]] The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 646 be terminated. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to interrupt the second reading. Please take a position and... Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U785	The Rules of Procedure Act does not regulate the term 'political culture'. The Board of the Riigikogu has only one option: to allow people to speak on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act and to give them the floor. They have the right to say what they want. Now it's Marko Mihkelson. Please! You're not getting tired, are you? Maybe I should have given you more time to come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U786	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U787	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I think that the remark that Inara made ends up saying that we have gained quite a lot of political culture in this Chamber over 20 years and more. In fact, there is a really natural process in Parliament, whether to approve a matter or to defend another thing, both the coalition and the opposition. The opportunities we've been given here, we use the law. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. In fact, it is very pleased that such an important subject and an area such as maritime safety are being discussed today in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. It is true that these legislative changes have been discussed here before; there have been talks and important decisions in this area. But when Kalle Palling, a member of the Economic Commission for the draft law, introduced today, I asked him whether the Committee on Economic Affairs had, perhaps in the course of the debate on this draft, already more broadly, dealt with maritime safety and also maritime traffic and safety in our coastal, economic and territorial waters, or whether it intends to do so in the future. He was quite frankly speaking, but he mentioned that the Committee on Economic Affairs had discussed it in the past and was planning to do so in the future. But I think that this issue is undoubtedly more serious than this very detailed addition to the law that we are talking about at the moment. For this reason, I believe it is absolutely appropriate to use the moment a little more widely and to think about maritime safety and the problems surrounding us. I believe that it is not much of a surprise for colleagues in the Chamber that Estonia is a maritime state. This part of our coastal sea and of the sea zone, which lies north of us, the Gulf of Finland, is one of the most densely nautical areas in the world at all. Looking at international and reliable statistics, we can see that the Gulf of Finland has almost 50,000 'entrys' every year in the east-west direction. This intersection, which is in the direction of Tallinn-Helsingi, is, as far as I know, one of the most densely shipping crossings in the world's seas at all. It's possible that somewhere in the Malaka Strait, in the region of Singapore, there may still be such areas. Undoubtedly, if we mean that passenger ships are moving primarily north-south and oil tankers and other major cargo ships towards the east-west, it is clear that this region is extremely important in the context of maritime safety. We must note this, perhaps in cooperation with our good partners in Finland. Good colleague, I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U788	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U789	I see that this issue needs a more thorough approach. Although the response to this issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs has been given much attention and how much more detailed, so-called current problems and trends in this area have been seen, I can say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has also listened several times to experts who have talked about the current state of maritime safety in the Baltic Sea and, more generally, about the impact on our security environment. Of course, it must be borne in mind that shipping carries two kinds of dangers. First of all, it is passengers or boatmasters who are affected by people on board ships operating at sea, no matter what. On the other hand, the security of the marine environment is undoubtedly a very important issue, which has also been said many times in public. This is precisely because, as I mentioned earlier, very heavy shipping traffic in the Gulf of Finland has steadily increased the risk of high environmental pollution over the years. For example, a maritime accident could result in serious oil pollution, given the extent to which oil products, other chemicals, etc. are transported in the Baltic Sea and, in particular, in the Gulf of Finland. So, of course, it is extremely important for us to think about which regulations are currently in operation and whether within the framework of the European Union it would be appropriate and reasonable to guarantee security and maritime safety in some respects. I think that every step that is being taken at national level, even if it is to supplement the law in the area of maritime safety, will certainly serve these objectives. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu intends to discuss this issue in the context of maritime safety security. A few weeks ago, we went to the Marine Rescue Centre and studied quite thoroughly how the coastal area has both human rescue capabilities and marine pollution capabilities. I will be honest with you that a country needs to make a whole series of very serious investments to avoid a situation where we simply do not have the ability to act quickly in the event of serious pollution. I think that these discussions, as well as this very interesting and exciting discussion and debate that we have had in the Riigikogu today, will certainly contribute to the emergence of new ideas and the addition of ideas that are necessary for amending and supplementing the law, just as ladies and gentlemen from all the political groups in the Riigikogu have done with this draft. This shows that this bill has quite broad and consensual support. But the fact that the IRL has asked for the draft to be suspended shows, I believe, simply that we can still come back to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U790	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U791	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! We are rightly proud of Estonia's status as a maritime state. At the same time, however, we know that this status is not given by God or everlasting, but it must be kept on standing up for it. It is therefore nice that the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aas, Deniss Boroditš, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillo, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Laasi, Lauri Luik, Lembit Kaljuvee, Olga Sõtnik, Peeter Laurson, Rainer Vakra, Rannar Vassiljev, Remo Holsmer, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman have initiated draft law on supplementing the Maritime Safety Act 646. Of course, it is a small contribution to ensuring maritime safety on our seas, but it provides an opportunity to talk about the status of Estonia as a maritime state and its development possibilities, including how to ensure traffic and safety in the Estonian maritime space. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal, which is on the table today, concerns a small issue on which, I hope, we will be able to form a joint and supportive opinion during today's debate. At the same time, I think that this gives us the opportunity to address Estonia's status as a maritime state in a slightly wider way. I do not think we can be satisfied with the situation where the Estonian flag does not fly even in the nearest seas to the extent that Estonia, as a sea state, deserves. Perhaps, as part of the discussion of this bill, we should also think about what we as legislators could do or even should do to create the conditions for the flag of Estonia as a maritime state not only in the Baltic Sea, but also in the wider sense. Perhaps, in addition to the step we have taken within the framework of the current law to simplify bureaucratic barriers in the maritime sphere, we could take a longer step and think about what we could do constructively and proactively to strengthen Estonia's status as a maritime state. We should think about how to create conditions for entrepreneurs to come under the flag of Estonia, who see additional opportunities to promote their business in Estonia as a regional centre in such a context that they think the ports here are more friendly than other ports along the Baltic Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we could support the proposals put forward and think about what we could do at the legislative level in future to strengthen Estonia's status as a maritime state. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U792	Break ten minutes. We'll proceed at 8:01.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U793	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I was able to thank the people who initiated this draft when I asked the questions, but I also thought it necessary to come to the premiere and say that the members of the transit and logistics community were very good, because when the problem arose, they tried to find a solution to it. I would like to mention specifically Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Kalev Lillot, Kalle Laanet, Lembit Kaljuveed, Valeri Korb and Vladimir Velman. You may not understand why I mention these people. But I looked at the fourth and eighth points on today's agenda and found that some of the names overlap. The eighth item is the first reading of the draft law on partnership. There are a lot of complaints that the text of this draft law does not correspond at all to the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. the actual text of the law deals with completely different problems. That is why I would have liked these people to have told other people in the transit and logistics community how the drafts are being made, that the explanatory memorandum and the draft law must speak about the same thing, to resolve the problem that has arisen, and that the explanatory memorandum must write it down. In both documents, we need to talk about the same thing. When I came to this particular draft and Kalle Palling's presentation, I did not understand one aspect, namely the behaviour of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which was much talked about today. I don't even mean the Minister as much as the officials. The problem was known, but the Ministry itself did not deal with it, but thought that this precedent could actually be discussed in the Estonian court and therefore we could do this work at the legislative level. I find that a strange attitude. Therefore, once again, I think it makes sense for the legislator to take the initiative and not just the rubber stamp of the government. The second aspect, which remained the sound of the draft procedure, was information technology. Since the government's position was only given to Seeder and later to Balling, I couldn't get to know it myself. But the problem came out that when the government discussed this issue, the position of the Maritime Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was that huge investments were needed in the IT solution so that this problem could be solved. On 16 June, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications concluded at the same committee that in fact these entries could also be made manually, so no major changes in information technology are needed. In my opinion, the legislator's work is made very difficult by this behaviour when the government takes the view that the change is subject to high costs and it is proposed that the entry into force be postponed until 1 April, but that the opinion will be changed at the time of the meeting. That certainly doesn't honor the officials working at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I'm asking for three more minutes just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U794	Any more procedural questions? The Group of the Riigikogu, Pro Patria and Res Publica Union has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 646. Please take a stand and vote. No member of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. [[Let's hear it. Laughter.]] 70 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with 2 abstentions. The second reading of Bill 646 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U795	I'm sorry! Can we clarify what we are voting on, which proposal will be voted on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U796	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Pensions Act and the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending other laws in this respect and the Income Tax Act. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, the Rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U797	Honourable Riigikogu! It is a great honour to be before you once again on the day of the celebration of your great democracy and to introduce you to the draft law amending the law on funded pensions and the law on state pension insurance and, in this connection, the law amending other laws and the Law on income tax. I apologise for the fact that Mr Jürgen Ligi cannot stand before you today and present this bill to you, but I will try to do my best to replace him. The draft has two very clear objectives, which can also be clearly seen here, because this draft is quite short. The first objective is very positive. The proposal is to increase the additional tax-free income on pensions from the current EUR 210 to EUR 220 per month. As we know, the overall tax-free income will be increased from EUR 144 to EUR 154 next year. Thus, the average pension will continue to be exempt from income tax with these two amendments, as from 1 January 2015, the draft and other amendments provide for tax-free income that does not exceed EUR 374 per month when we are talking about pension. The second proposal put before you in this draft relates to the parental pension system. The proposal is to postpone the entry into force of part of the parental pension until 1 January 2018. This concerns the part where the supplementary pension would be paid for raising a child born before 2013 at an additional rate of one year. If we look at why this needs to be done, we all know that the higher payments to the second pillar of the pension in 2014‐2018 will generate significant additional costs for the country. The second pillar of pensions is therefore, of course, growing. Next year, the additional cost of the second pillar will be over EUR 54 million and will rise to over EUR 60 million by 2017. This is the proposal of the Government of the Republic to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. I believe that we can discuss this very comprehensive and long draft in a broad way, with the help of the issues that you have already prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U798	Thank you, Minister. You really have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U799	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm not going to go over the contents of the bill, because you've been talking about it for a while. I am talking about a three-year shift in the payment of the pension supplement. As a member of the opposition, I shouldn't be interested in it, and I haven't really really looked at your coalition agreement. But can you comment? The Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party have a coalition agreement. On what point is this legislative amendment now being made? Is there a specific formula for delaying the entry into force of this part of the law by three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U800	Thank you. The Government of the Republic will certainly not act solely on the basis of a coalition agreement. The Coalition Agreement is an important document on the basis of which an action plan for the Government of the Republic is established, which also contains a great many other important points. When you look at the related parts of this draft, i.e. the additional tax-free part of pensions on the one hand and the three-year deferral of parental pensions on the other, these plus very many other budget-related drafts plus other drafts are very directly linked. I don't have the coalition agreement with me, and even if I did, I don't need to start quoting it to you here. If you wish, you can read it yourself. But in any case, it makes sense to move forward with this bill in this form now, then, in three years' time, the parental pension can begin to enforce this part of the pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U801	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U802	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! For years, very many parents, especially mothers, have complained about the value of young mothers and their children at all times, but the contribution of older parents has been overlooked. They are not given any support for raising a large number of children. You mentioned that the aim of the draft is positive. I am asking which side, on the initiative of the Reform Party or the Social Democrats, whether we have this bill on our table and why.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U803	Thank you. This bill is on the table under the agreement of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic has presented this draft to you for discussion, and it is therefore our joint agreement. Why he's on this table has been explained in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it doesn't need to be processed again. But if you want to hear it from me, I'll repeat my introduction. The main objective is that the increased contributions to the second pillar of the pension amount to EUR 54 million. As you have been in close contact with business in previous years, you know that budgets need to be balanced. The IRL, too, has repeatedly stood in balance for the budget, and it certainly does so very rightly. So I guess we'll have to look for those reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U804	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U805	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of the Interior! You were the Minister of Social Affairs during the drafting of this bill, the draft pension supplement for parents, fathers and mothers for raising children. Undoubtedly, you know this area through and through. I think that's the kind of bill they say it's like your kid. Today, you are forced to reject 226000 people who, according to this law, are expected to receive a pension supplement. Aren't you a little sorry to break up your previous years' work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U806	Thank you. Thank you for the credit! As a modest person, I would say that the drafts will still be passed as a law in Parliament, even if they are initiated by a ministry or a minister. The legislator, after all, adopted this law in its own time. You mentioned 226000 people. Today, I dare say to more than 400000 people that tax-free income will increase by 20 euros per month. This really concerns all pensioners. The value of the annual price that we are arguing about here, we are talking about the addition of one annual price, on 1 April, is five euros, 4.96 euros and something else. I don't remember exactly, you can check the Social Insurance Board's website. For one year's rating, we are talking about EUR 60 per child per year. When we talk about an increase in the tax-free minimum, we get 240 euros (12 times 20 euros). So there's a difference. Knowing I have to come here to replace Jürgen, I took a look at history online. I told the Estonian National Broadcasting on 24 March 2011 if you google it, you will find it, that if the state wallet allows, an additional annual rating will be calculated from 1 January 2015. It must be acknowledged, therefore, that it was quite right to foresee that the state's purse currently allows for a significant increase in child benefits and allows for an increase in tax-free income. From next year, the pension will also increase by nearly 27 euros per month, and if we multiply it by 12, we will get an even greater amount. So I think that all of this together, the rise in pensions, the increase in tax-free income, the rise in child benefits, is definitely the kind of thing that gives me the courage to stand on the remote and get out of here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U807	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U808	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you. I really respect you very much and thank you for your congratulations on the celebration of democracy. But I am deeply saddened that at the time of the Reform Party's celebration of democracy, you did not turn out to be a winner. If the village stories are true, it is the same person you are replacing on the remote today that has chosen another candidate. But that's it. We come to this bill, which you yourself have brought to the Riigikogu in your time and defended. I understand you're actually just looking for sources of income to raise child support. The tax reduction will take effect at exactly the same time. Was it also under consideration not to lower income tax and not to take away the supplementary pension supplement from older people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U809	Thank you for your question. That's a good point. Indeed, income tax is falling, and it also leaves more money in the hands of people. That's right. But in the framework of this draft, it was not under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U810	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U811	Thank you, Mr President. A good Minister of the Interior in the duties of the Minister of Finance, who you were Minister of Social Affairs at the time that the law was made! I would like you to repeat the effect of this three-year postponement. You're saying it's gonna be a cover for some new ideas. It follows that there is some amount that, let us be honest, pensioners will miss out in these three years. What's the amount? My second question, therefore, is as follows. How do you anticipate in three years' time, assuming that this law will come into force, the combination of two decisions? At this point in time, a parental pension should start working and it will generate certain costs, and there is also some new expenditure that we are doing today, and the source of which is this postponement of entry into force. How do you see the combination of two decisions at this point? Would you be so kind!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U812	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to page 6 and Chapter VII of the explanatory memorandum. It's nice to pick up the effects. That's where you'll find them. Take it apart and read it. I even heard you tell me that number, so I don't have to repeat it to you, Mr. Sester. But I don't really want to start predicting the future. I made an estimate in 2011 that if the state's wallet allows it, it would be paid. Turns out I was right. I'm not going to predict 2018 just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U813	A procedural question, Sven Sester, please! The microphone, too, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U814	Thank you, Mr President. I want to ask you a question. If a Member asks a question and the minister knows the answer, does he have the opportunity not to respond for any personal reasons, or would he be polite to answer? As manager, maybe you can tell me how the minister should behave in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U815	Thank you. In my opinion, the questions are serious and serious and the answers are just as serious. As manager, I certainly can't assess their content, but it's going well. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U816	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Together we worked on this bill and you defended it very well in front of the Riigikogu. You've been reminded of that many times. I'm really glad that there's you on the remote, not Jürgen Ligi, who would've talked about what he didn't know. At least you are specifically talking about this bill. You were talking about budgetary balance. As Minister of Justice, you know the principle of legal certainty and legal expectation. This is not the adoption of a new law, but, in fact, a law adopted and established several years ago, the whole system. The same 226000 mothers, who are now pensioners and who have raised children, know that they will receive a pension supplement from 1 January next year. You will withdraw 86 million euros from them in three years. As Minister of Justice and politician, how can you explain to them your change of mind and, in some ways, your eloquentness? Is that what your political line is going to be? [[There's a phone ringing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U817	Thank you. Are you guys gonna answer the phone or am I gonna answer you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U818	Minister, a member of the Riigikogu does what he thinks is right. You answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U819	Excuse me, Mr President. Yes, as a lawyer, I can talk long and hard about the principle of legitimate expectations, but I do not think that this is the subject of the draft we are debating today. The principle of legitimate expectations certainly does not mean that it is completely unacceptable to restrict the rights of individuals. This is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, in the second paragraph of page 3. I would also like to remind you that the Riigikogu is the reason why the legislator makes decisions on how to organise Estonia's life. It is therefore extremely necessary that the Riigikogu discusses such a fundamental change right now and as soon as possible. I therefore suggest that you deal with this bill quickly, because it would be wise to adopt this law before 1 July in order to ensure a sufficient gap between the time of entry into force and the time of adoption.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U820	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U821	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! First of all, I would also like to welcome the fact that I can talk to you, not Jürgen Ligi. It's much nicer, I'd say. Secondly, I want to criticise a little bit. The pension increase next year and the small increase in the tax-free minimum are what must be, it is not a heroic act. But here's the question. The Social Democratic Party has always positioned itself as a social problem solver, I say so. No one of us has seen this billing process, you have. When the government meeting discussed the fate of this bill, did the Social Democrats make any attempt to change this situation, mean not to postpone the entry into force of this part of the parental pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U822	Thank you. We have agreed in the government that we will send the drafts to Parliament by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U823	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U824	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In part, I have already received an answer to my question. You informed us that the new government coalition would distribute money on this principle, so that as many as possible would receive money before the elections and therefore vote in favour of the new coalition. You don't share money by the so-called bet. In this case, the contribution is that people have given birth and raised children to the state and that they should also receive a pension supplement. Is that the principle of a new government coalition? If that is not the case, please explain to us why you have made your coalition agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U825	Thank you. I absolutely disagree with you. You interpreted my words arbitrarily, and I advise you not to do such things. It's just for the sake of the verbatim. It's not correct. As far as the pension supplement is concerned, the pension supplement for raising children still exists, which is two annual grades. The second pillar of each parent raising children will be paid for raising children from 2013. So you can't say you don't pay for raising children. Yes, they are. This point of the comprehensive system of parental pensions, which is now being postponed into force, does not deprive anyone of any right, but postpones it. Secondly, it is extremely important that it really concerns those whose children are adults, they have been raised and they have also been paid for, i.e. they have already received a pension supplement. This would be an additional bonus; next year, such an addition will be possible due to an increase in pension and tax-free income.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U826	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U827	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I am worried that you are talking about the income tax-free minimum when you listen to all the good answers, but you leave aside the reason why the parental pension was created. The parental pension was created because people who worked equally receive a much lower pension than those who have not raised children. While the tax-free minimum helps people in general, it does not reduce inequality. How do you comment on the inequality that our pension system has introduced, that raising a child causes a smaller pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U828	Thank you. It is very difficult to comment on the principles of state pension insurance, which date back to the early 1990s. Then these principles became clear and it was agreed that the basis for the calculation was two years for one child, which later turned into two annual prizes. Speaking of the current system, adding one annual fee does not concern parents who still have a child because they are paid for in the second pension pillar. I think that's fair enough. It is difficult for me to assess why in my time two years for one child were chosen as the basis for the calculation. In addition, if we want to philosophize, we can also philosophize why only one parent is paid, why not both. After all, both were involved in raising the child.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U829	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U830	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since you used the word 'philosophing', I also have a more philosophical question. When the present coalition wrote and described its coalition agreement, very often it sounded like it had a very strong social dimension and is based on what people are waiting for now. However, this bill actually betrays the legitimate expectations of thousands of people that pension will rise. How does this fit into the social perspective of the current coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U831	Thank you. All pensioners' pensions will increase next year. No legitimate expectations are deceived here. The pension rises by over 6%, by memory, about EUR 27 per person receiving an average pension. So the pension definitely goes up. The real income of people thanks to the increase in tax-free income, let's say, increases proportionally. In that sense, it's all right. The coalition's main focus on social benefits and welfare was on child benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U832	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U833	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In the meantime, listening to your answers gives the impression that if we have to adopt this bill as a law now, then nothing will happen. You say pensions are going to rise either way, tax-free income is going to increase, income tax is going to fall, pensions are going to increase. However, I ask you to clarify exactly what will happen if this law is amended. I understand that you are in a difficult situation because you yourself came here a few years ago to introduce this law and supported it so that this law could apply from 1 January 2015. Now you are proposing to postpone it for three years, thinking that you are better decision-makers than grandparents. I remember getting the money from my grandparents back in the day. I suggest you leave it to your grandkids or to yourself, to your grandparents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U834	Thank you. If you fail to adopt this bill as a law, it is very bad. Then tax-free income will not increase and income tax will have to be paid by a much larger number of pensioners than today. That would be bad news. I don't think any of the pensioners are expecting this news. So my recommendation is to adopt this bill as a law in any case. As regards the first part of this draft, as I said, given the country's current possibilities, we will come to this on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U835	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U836	Thanks again! One of the fundamental problems of the Estonian people is the low birth rate. Few children are born in our families. Modern social organization is based in many ways on financial income, not only during employment and child rearing, but also in retirement. We all know that the pension depends on the social tax paid on the salary earned during the working life. Parental pension is one measure in which society can compensate parents for their preference for raising children for careers and earning money. Why do you think it is right that people who have raised five children as well as people who have dedicated their whole lives to themselves and their careers receive equal share of the net pension increase? Do you really think this is a fair and honorable attitude for parents...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U837	Harder! I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U838	Thank you. I understood the question in principle. I think it's fair that we've put in place a parental pension. I consider it fair that the parental pension system was introduced very clearly on the basis of this principle, in order to eliminate this injustice, which affected children born from the beginning of the 1990s to perhaps 2001 (my memory is starting to get a little low, as is always the case with the old man). They were paid for two more years, and since the second part of the parental pension came into effect, parental benefits were paid into the second pillar of the pension. So I regard the parental pension system as certainly fair and right. As far as those already receiving a pension are concerned, if it is possible to increase the pension for all pensioners, I prefer it. Given that the annual grade has already been included in the pension, five raised children have therefore received more pension years in the past. In any case, I would prefer to increase the pension for all, and for the average pension to continue to be exempt from tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U839	Due to our Home and Working Procedures Act, two questions can be put to the rapporteur at first reading. But if anyone wonders why Sven Sester can ask a third question, I'll say he asked a procedural question. So it's all in style and he can ask his last question. Please, Sven Sester! I told the other members of the Riigikogu to avoid procedural issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U840	Thank you, Mr President, for paying attention to this. Good minister! Protecting this bill reminds me a little of Brezhnev's package, because you say that it is very bad, if this law is not passed, these and these good things will not be accepted. It reminds me of a good old time in Brezhnev's package when you had to choose, but just in case, there was also an opportunity to buy tangerine and wiener on the spot to make sure there was a positive side to this thing. I also noticed that you told a Member of Parliament, in the interests of a verbatim report, that this should not and should not be said. I'm telling you now, too, for the sake of the verbatim. You said that money wouldn't be taken away. I say it will be taken away, EUR 86 million will be taken away for three years. It's physical money that's being taken away. I wonder why the entry into force of the parental pension is postponed for three years until 2018, why not postpone it for a year, two, three or even five. Where did that three years come from? Why don't you give me some information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U841	Thank you. If the country's wallet is sufficiently thick, it may be postponed for a shorter period. However, the current financial accounts of the Ministry of Finance offer a reasonable and logical date for entry into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U842	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U843	Thank you. Good minister! I will now speak 'political' and 'direct'. The greatest capital of politicians is credibility and the abuse of trust is the worst they can do. This law has been passed, and the President has declared it. In fact, all of these 226000 people know that from 1 January they will receive a parental pension for raising children. You're actually breaking your word on the remote. In concrete terms, you break the word you have given and, in fact, you amend the existing law. You say here in the remote that entry into force will be postponed for three years. But Minister Ligi has said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that he would lose his parental pension altogether. As a relatively young person, although already experienced as a politician, are you not afraid that in three years' time you may have to be on the remote in the role of Prime Minister and once again eating your words?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U844	Thanks for the compliment. That was many today. I would leave that last line or the stab in which I am in 2018 to discuss in another debate. This is primarily for voters to decide what the fate of one politician or another is. But there are a few more rules in politics. One of them is honesty. Honesty also means being honest about why one thing or another is done. I have said here that the state's financial situation allows us to raise child benefits now, lower income tax and increase tax-free income. That's the reason. We're gonna say it honestly, we're not gonna bash anything. The government is responsible for the financial welfare of the state. When we were in the coalition together, we also made the necessary decisions. In 2009, we cut down and made decisions that could have been similarly asked whether they were legally correct and in line with legitimate expectations. But we did it to keep public finances in order. It was necessary. Even now, I am saying that if the government does not have the courage to take responsibility for the financial welfare of the state, the state will go bankrupt. That is not what I want, and I believe that neither do you nor the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U845	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U846	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry to hear what you're saying. You are talking about money and that the state must not go bankrupt and must be responsible. However, you know very well that the question is not that the money did not exist, but that you are simply taking the money and wanting to put it elsewhere. There is no crisis in Estonia or any similar situation. Professor Ene-Margit Tiit has said that every little backward step is a message. It's not that people read that money very accurately, but it's a message that they're going after moms and their money. I met the elderly of Järva-Jaani last week, and they asked if Hanno Pevkur, a man from their neighbourhood, really, was in favour of taking this extra money away from them. What do I tell them next time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U847	Thank you. Give me the phone number, I'll talk to them myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U848	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U849	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, It is a little sad to hear this debate here. But I remember the Prime Minister, who is very upset when the government is called temporary. But there's a reason. If the government pushes such things into the future, although we do not know what the economic situation in 2018 will be, it will be irresponsible behaviour. But I was listening to what you were saying. You were talking about honesty. I ask why this honesty is selective. Is this revenge on a former coalition partner? Why such selective honesty when 226000 pensioners are deceived today? Where's the honesty here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U850	Thank you. After all, you've been in politics long enough to realize that you still have to make choices in politics, and I'm sure everyone doesn't always like them. The fight for views is formed in one way or another in support of voters. Well, all of us, both you and we, need to stand up for our views. I certainly must acknowledge your party, you stand up for your views and principles. Finally, 51 of the 101 members of the Riigikogu must decide whether or not this change will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U851	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U852	Thank you. Dear waitress, I guess we are all in a relatively bad mood here at the moment, because we are facing decisions that we certainly do not want to vote for in part. The pension supplement for children born before 2013 still affects a large number of people who have raised a child. Without opening this philosophical debate as to whether it should apply to both elderly parents or not, and without including this discussion as to whether parental benefit and child support should be paid to both parents at the same time, I am still asking why, in a situation where all European countries are trying to adjust their pension systems towards children, Estonia is going the opposite way. Everyone's having a hard time financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U853	Thank you. Indeed, it is financially difficult for all, and in these difficult times, choices must be made. Once again, the current coalition has chosen, in particular, to support young families in order to clean up the social system. In the case of the elderly, we have chosen the way in which we want to raise everyone's pension to the maximum possible extent. These have been our choices. We have not wanted to make exceptions, but we have tried to increase universal child support, everyone's pension and tax-free income. With these choices we have come before you, and the government expects support for this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U854	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U855	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I don't quite agree with the answer you gave me to my question. But the truth, as you said yourself, will be revealed somewhere else outside this room. But you touched on one of those categories before, which are very sensitive in politics. This is certainly a very important principle of integrity. You described earlier as the main motive for this decision, frankly, that it was necessary to take care of the state's purse and, under the current economic situation, it is not possible to take this step in order to introduce parental pensions from 1 January 2015. A moment later, however, you honestly said that the real reason was that the new coalition had to make choices. Which honest answer was quite honest?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U856	Thank you. Both are honest answers. When making a coalition agreement, you have to look at the state's wallet. The situation tells us what the options are. Among them, in turn, a choice is made that can be taken forward. There are always more wishes than opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U857	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U858	Thank you. Dear Minister, The commission responsible for this draft is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The government was represented in this debate by the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who argued for the current law, which currently provides for a parental pension from 1 January 2015, that it is a silly law. I had the impression that Jürgen Ligi felt that if he or the Reform Party continued in the new government coalition after the 2015 elections, this deadline would be postponed or the parental pension would be cancelled. Did Jürgen Ligi, when he, as a representative of the government, claimed that this was a stupid bill, represented the government, and that is the government's common opinion? If so, please explain why the government thinks this is a stupid bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U859	Thank you. The government bill is on the table in front of you. According to this plan, this part of the parental pension will enter into force on 1 January 2018. That's the only way I can answer that question. If you want to ask Jürgen Ligi something more specifically, you can do it in Question Time or in the course of your questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U860	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U861	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Take it or leave it, but your answers are not convincing. Let's try to wake up despite the late hours. The problem amounted to EUR 23 million in one financial year. The economy is pretty hard to predict, by this year we were hoping for +3%, actually we're negative. We all hope that the economy will grow. It is a value decision to make a difference in our demographic situation. Why do you spit on the Estonian population problem in the interests of short-term combinations? Say it as a waitress, as Minister of Finance, but on behalf of the entire government coalition. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U862	Thank you, Mr. Ducks! You were not in the Chamber from the beginning of reading the draft, so you did not hear all the questions and answers. If you say this bill solves the demographic problem, I dare seriously argue with you. This bill concerns adult people, retired people. I don't know if your parents are still with us or not, I'm sorry! But if they are, it also concerns your parents. I do not think that this particular point has a particular impact on the demographic situation. Child benefit, parental benefit and income tax will have an impact on the demographic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U863	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U864	Good colleague! Recently, we sat at a table and promised the Estonian people, specifically every six people, a certain amount of financial support as a pension supplement for raising children. Now you've taken another friend to bed, and you're allowing him more child support. Is the political culture you are cultivating, that one today, the other tomorrow, the third day and the fourth day after tomorrow, a principled liberal doctrine, or do you also have some of the values on which you base these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U865	Thank you, good ex-governor. You were a good minister. All Estonian governments have been coalition governments. The coalition government still has to make agreements that some like and some don't like. Finally, we have to find a compromise. In seeking it, we have reached this stage that we can say today that no one will be deprived of the supplementary pension for raising children. We're talking about adding one annual rate, but we all have two annual grades. We're talking about two parts of the parental pension in three working. Finally, the decision is made by the large Chamber of Parliament, which can decide whether or not the draft proposed by the government deserves to be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U866	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U867	Minister, thank you very much. I ask you specifically to answer the question that I am asking. In classic terms, don't answer like the king of Tallinn's fools answers at the council where he doesn't answer anything. Please don't talk to me about the increase in the second pillar, and I don't know what else, talk about what I'm asking you about. Will more than 220000 pensioners receive EUR 86 million less due to the contested proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U868	Thank you. If you unfold the explanatory statement, it shows the effects for years. Excuse me, will you continue the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U869	Quiet, please! [[The bell.]] Please, Minister, do you wish to continue to answer or do we take the next question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U870	I'll keep answering. If you take the explanatory statement, you will see the effects that have been shown as sums. If added up, this amount will amount to EUR 86 million. If you take other measures, as I have repeatedly said here, the increase in tax-free income, the increase in pensions for all pensioners, the increase in child benefits and other measures of the social system, the impact of all of them on improving Estonia's social security or social situation is much greater than 86 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U871	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U872	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here, the arguments flow alternately in one direction and the other. I do not know who has mixed up this impact analysis, but it is funny to read the conclusion that overall, the impact on the state budget of delaying the introduction of the pension supplement can be considered to be insignificant when the honourable waitress has spoken here that choices had to be made in difficult financial circumstances and that a cover has now been found for all the problems that the new government wants to solve. Secondly, there are two other elements to the impact analysis. Firstly, it is reasonable to reduce parental pensions as this does not affect the organisation of public authorities and the size of the target group affected is small. The explanatory memorandum therefore considers that 226000 people are a small target group in Estonia. I think things have gone completely wrong with this impact analysis. [[The bell.]] Are 226000 people a small target group? Secondly...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U873	Time's up. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U874	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. I get the point of the question. We can certainly argue whether the code of good regulation and regulation, which is why all ministries are carrying out an impact analysis of drafts, is good or whether something needs to be changed there. However, as far as I am aware, the Ministry of Finance has based its impact assessment on the principles of good lawmaking and regulation and, consequently, these figures have been recorded here. Of course, if you take 27 million euros and put aside the entire state budget, that is quite a small part of the entire state budget. But if we're going to take a piece of the budget apart, it turns out it's a very large amount, as you know very well, because you've been in the government for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U875	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U876	Thank you. We all know that there will be a new economic forecast in August. You argue the decision of 220000 pensioners, not to mention that it is a so-called "value decision', by the fact that you had the so-called Excel table at the coalition talks. My experience has shown that this Excel table does not just hold water, especially now that we see what is happening in the economy. Now you have a desire to make such a decision after Midsummer Day and before the singing party. Are you, who currently represents the Minister of Finance, such a genius that you will be able to predict the development of the Estonian economy and the revenue from it for public functions with the precision of 20 million euros for the next three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U877	Thank you, Juhan! I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U878	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U879	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In 2011, when the Reform Party and I agreed to introduce a parental pension, you were, as I recall, the Minister of Social Affairs, helped prepare the bill and bring it to Parliament. It has now become clear that the decision taken in the meantime in Parliament, which has been made very clearly on the basis of the legislator's will, is intended to reverse it, particularly as regards one year of seniority. You can tell us briefly, without telling us everything else you want to do, about the pension rise and everything else, how you would respond to a grandmother who would come to you at a song party and say this: 'Son, I'm sorry, but in 2011, you promised it, Parliament passed the law, but now you're taking the money away from me! '.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U880	Thank you, Ken, for that question. Parliament has made similar decisions in the past, whether, for example, the postponement of the reduction in income tax or the increase in VAT. During the harvest, we had to take a very serious look at what to do and what not to do together. Then we cut people's expectations considerably. We cut wages and did a lot of other things. Those decisions did go through the Crocodile Commission, all over the place. We had to explain those decisions. If someone asked me now, I could explain to him that yes, our current choice has been, above all, an increase in child benefits, an increase in pensions and a reduction in income tax. That's what everyone wins. If a pussy or dad asked me that, that's how I'd answer him. The financial capacity of the State is such that the inclusion of one annual price, i.e. EUR 5 per month, is conceivable from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U881	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U882	A good former colleague! They cut me a little ear with these expressions that a good mama and a good dad, you can. These are not good ladies and daddies, but citizens of the Republic of Estonia who have contributed to the progress of the Republic of Estonia. Their labelling in such deminutive words is somehow cutting my soul. But here's what I'm asking you. As a minister, do you really think it's true that one day it is said that pensioners will receive a hundred kroons, the next day it will be said that these hundred kroons will be taken away from pensioners and given to children, but on the third day when the new bride shows up, that one hundred kroons will be promised to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U883	Thank you, Jack! I'm sorry I went along with Ken's question. Ken was talking about a son. So it is that legislative changes can be made by Parliament. If Parliament considers it right to change the direction of Estonia, for example to increase child support or increase tax-free income, it will do so. When we recall 2009 again, we had to make very difficult choices together, we had to bring these choices from the government to Parliament, and Parliament made these changes of direction. There is now also a proposal before the large Chamber of Parliament. Of course, Parliament's debate here is very much needed, as was the debate on raising the retirement age and on a wide range of healthcare services. All the debates that are held in this big hall are very necessary. The great hall finally decides whether to go the route offered, stick to the former choice, or choose a third path.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U884	Tõnis Palts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U885	Minister, thank you very much. I'll just make sure I get it right. You made it clear that 226000 pensioners would be deprived of EUR 86 million because of this amendment. Can you confirm that? Let me get this straight. That's pretty much what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U886	Thank you. I mentioned an amount of EUR 86 million and said what the impact of this budget change is. I also mentioned that this EUR 86 million and more will come back to families through a general increase in pensions and an increase in tax-free income, when it comes to families in general, also through an increase in child support. As a businessman, as a finance man, you know very well that the balance in the budget is ultimately equal: if you take away from somewhere, you can add somewhere else, if you put some more, you have to be taken away from somewhere. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U887	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U888	Thank you. Unfortunately, you didn't answer my first question. As regards Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, I now understood that he represented himself in the Commission, as you said, not the Government of the Republic. I have a request that a government representative representing the government, not himself, be sent to the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the future. But I can't agree at all with your answer to a colleague. You said that this bill had no demographic impact whatsoever. However, in addition to financial support, parental pension also means giving a signal, shaping attitudes and values. To claim that the parental pension does not affect the demographic situation is the same as to say that it is completely pointless to raise money in the second pillar because people need this money now, never later than they are retired. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U889	Thank you. I didn't say it was pointless or anything. What I said was that in my opinion, the demographic impact here is really harder to see. If we take a real position, the same parental benefit system, which works very successfully, is much more important for the demographic situation. In 2004, it significantly increased the birth rate. We have an increase in child benefits. Women in labour are much more affected. We are talking about flexible working arrangements, etc. This affects the demographic situation much more than the change that we are debating today and which concerns people currently in retirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U890	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U891	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior! You drew parallels with what happened with cuts during the 2009 crisis. If I understand correctly, we are in a financial situation where we have to make cuts of a kind that might be analogous to your approach or that of a government. You have pointed out that if there is a change of direction in Estonia, there will be possible decisions such as we are currently dealing with as a draft initiated by the government. What did you mean by such a serious and weighty category that this draft is a change of direction for Estonia? My question is whether the idea of a parental pension is sensible and good for the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U892	Reducing child poverty means ensuring social security, because it is the children who will work in our country in the future and pay pensions to people. They are the guarantors of the sustainability of the Estonian state. We are infinitely pleased that the final vote will soon be on the rise in child benefits. Why am I talking about child support during the debate on this bill? But because it is with this legislative amendment that we guarantee free money that can support families with children. We agree to amend the law on funded pensions, the law on state pension insurance and the related laws. We know that the structure of the parental benefit system is gradual. The additional pension supplement in the amount of one of the annual rates for children born before 2013 has not yet been paid; it was only intended to be implemented from 2015 and this provision is postponed until 1 January 2018. I very much ask the members of the IRL: do not frighten people, do not frighten Estonian citizens, do not confuse them! Nothing is being taken away from anyone, the entry into force of this legal provision is simply being delayed a little. This does not make the situation of pensioners worse. When you look at all the things that are being amended by law in this Chamber, it turns out that the situation of pensioners is improving. If you don't believe, read the law, there's all the dates in place. I don't think I can count all the good things they do with this money, but I'm still trying. I would like to emphasise that the first and second children's allowances will be raised to EUR 45 per month. If so far the child benefit was only EUR 19,18, then the third and each next child benefit will now rise to EUR 100 per month. The need-based family allowance for each child increases to 45 euros and, when determining income support, the child is no longer a factor of 0.8, but the child is put first in the family in receipt of income support and has a coefficient of 1. If the subsistence limit was up to now EUR 72 per month for the child, it will now be raised to EUR 90 per month. I understand that for many, this presentation creates negative emotions and would like to argue against it. But in the current economic situation in Estonia, every small increase is very important, especially for families with children. It was said here that parental pensions cause women to give birth and also improve the demographic situation in Estonia. Believe me, the parental pension really only improves the situation of pensioners. Children are born when social security is guaranteed. With an increase in child benefit, indeed, whether or not this confidence will be increased to a small extent. I believe that, after all these laws have been implemented, families with children will be able to correct how much they will still benefit from all these legislative changes. For example, as confirmed by the Minister of Social Affairs, a family of three children receives EUR 900 per year. This is a significant increase and these increases will ensure that families are able to cope. Do not ridicule the delay in the implementation of the parental pension! This is a social policy decision and children are behind it. We need to see children living in poverty now. It would be totally unacceptable if we did not notice them and did nothing to change the situation. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U893	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to reject draft 685 at first reading. Let us begin the vote on this proposal. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U894	Thank you. Since this is a bill that, contrary to the statement made by the previous speaker, directly worsens the situation of families and offends their sense of justice, coalition politicians certainly need a little moment of reflection to look into their own hearts to see if voting for immoral drafts is a nice thing. We're gonna ask for ten minutes of break for this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U895	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U896	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U897	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. IRL has proposed to reject draft 685 at first reading. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 33), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 53 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 685 amendments. 25 June at 10 a.m. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U898	Thank you. I start with the beginning of your question: you misunderstood. Now I come to the end of the question. Parental pension, I have said it many times, is a good thing, just the part that is currently in force. Together, we eliminated the injustice of the fact that, in the meantime, the annual prices were not taken into account at all. It is also a good idea to pay 4% extra to the second pension pillar when children are raised from 2013. It creates justice, and it's really good. If we recall the 2011 coalition talks in Urmas, I believe you will remember, then we had quite a heated debate on this subject. I believe you also remember that I was relatively skeptical about the idea of this component back then. But it was agreed and adopted at the time, and we went on with it. As minister, I brought this bill to this big hall. Yes, the price was that at that time one of the best pension specialists in Estonia left the Ministry of Social Affairs, who said that he would not be willing to write this bill. But I brought it to this hall. Because that was the coalition agreement. Now, as a draft of the coalition, this bill is in front of you, and I will defend it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U899	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U900	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You started stuttering gently when you answered. I will give you a new opportunity to continue to take a position on this third component, which you are now trying to postpone for three years. In fact, you were going to say that neither you nor the government is in essence in favour of adding one year of seniority to the current two pension years, that is, the third stage. I guess that's what you were gonna say...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U901	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U902	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! 226000 pensioners will be deprived of the expected pension supplement in three years from next year; they will simply not receive this money. However, you say that this effect is absolutely irrelevant. By the way, pensioners receive very little pension. Why should these pensioners believe that in three years' time, they will receive a pension supplement? How is this fortress supposed to develop? In three years' time, maybe it will be said again that it will not have a significant impact and will not be granted a pension supplement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U903	Thank you. The average old-age pension is expected to rise to over 20 euros per month in all the following year. I believe that this is an important amount for all pensioners. As I said earlier, one point in the draft states that the additional tax exemption for pensioners will also increase from EUR 210 to EUR 220. I think these steps are very important for improving the livelihood of pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U904	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U905	Thank you. The Committee on Monetary Affairs certainly analysed these effects very thoroughly. In the past, the Minister spoke of a number of negative decisions taken in the deepest dungeon in a difficult time of crisis. I do not think we have the deepest crisis right now. However, Professor Tiit has said that every single step that affects children and families has an impact on the demographic situation and birth rate, not because a person is calculated how many euros he could lose right now or in the future, but because it sends people a message of uncertainty. We have had to make negative decisions over the years, but we have never made one before. We have never come down to reducing pensions, taking away the part of the pension that people have already been promised. How did the Committee on Monetary Affairs assess this impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U906	Thank you! The Committee on Finance did not assess this impact in the form you presented it here. However, I can say that the effect is 1% of the old-age pension. When we are talking about demographic measures that the state is taking in order for the birth rate in Estonia to increase, the parental benefit system will be maintained, these basic principles will not be changed. Also, if we look at child benefits, then next year, universal child benefits, as well as needs-based child benefits, will rise to those most in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U907	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U908	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am concerned and I think that we are dismantling something much bigger now than there is only one element in our social system that affects older people. I was most concerned about the cynicism of the representative of the initiators of the draft and how he tried to contrast different social groups, as if a new government alliance were thinking about everyone and everyone would have a better life and it was as if families with children were guilty of taking away the pension supplement from parents who raised children. I think it's cynical, community-breaking and dishonest thinking, especially when it's cultivated by government representatives. Just as populistly, it could be said that a postponement of parental pension is necessary to find a financial cover to build a new house of ministries or the Rail Baltic route operating around the sex, which costs more than EUR 100 million more, or to carry out a ferry transaction which is not in the public interest, which will also burden the taxpayer. That's a bad way of thinking. The parental pension is not included in the way of thinking represented by the government, in order to be equal and uniform for all. The parental pension is covered by the idea that older people who have raised generations of working age would receive additional support for it. This is a fundamental value decision and attitude. Hanno Pevkur spoke about the chosen direction of the Estonian state. He continued that if the government has votes together, the direction of the Estonian state will change. My question is which way it's going to change. What is this signal? The signal is extremely bad. First, the word is broken. A word that is actually a law that has been adopted and enforced, but which has not yet been practically implemented and should apply from 1 January 2015. We cannot accept this word breaking, and we cannot accept it. Our protest today in the form of this long sitting is unambiguous and clear: we want to give the government union time so that it does not make this mistake, does not oppose large groups of society, does not break the word given by the state. Secondly, one thing is legitimate expectation and word breaking, but the other is honesty. This question of honesty is extremely important. The previous waitress said that it really makes sense to do so and it makes sense that the contribution of the various generations to raising children should be valued equally, and this is the step we took. However, we do not agree that it is considered reasonable to postpone this additional compensatory measure that would have added the third year of retirement to the parental pension. It is fair to add value to raising children. About what we're talking about for three years, I mean, don't lie. It's a mist. That won't happen if this government continues. No, you're not. This was evident in the attitude of the speakers. The Minister of Finance spoke at the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and expressed himself as a person. I don't know what else he could have been talking about, as a steamer? As a person, he thinks that this parental pension system is poor. The Minister of Home Affairs is responsible for pension issues in the new government! just made it clear that when the parental pension system was created in the previous coalition, it was guilty of people leaving work because they did not want to carry out this demand for IRL. He was right that the IRL felt that the parental pension system was reasonable. Just as we applied for the establishment of this system in the elections, today we are opposed to abolishing this system. Do not talk about this adjournment; it is the intention to abolish this system, which is being attempted by contrasting different social groups. There's no need to contrast them! During the budgetary procedure last year, the IRL proposed to increase the minimum income tax-free pension for the elderly to an average pension. We support this decision, it is a sensible step. As regards the increase in child benefits, we also support this. These are reasonable steps. The fact that EUR 26 million per year solves the country's financial problems in very difficult circumstances and compares the current time with the 2009 economic crisis is, to put it mildly, naughty. This same impact analysis, referred to in the explanatory memorandum, states that the impact of the deferral of the pension supplement on the state budget can be considered to be insignificant. This is the unambiguous political position of the initiator himself. The thing I cannot agree with is that it is as if it has been concluded in some empire that the amendment concerning 226000 people in Estonia is minor, because the target group affected is small. As if it were a draft law of the People's Republic of China. Do you consider the amendment concerning a quarter of a million people in Estonia to be minor? It is no wonder, therefore, that although there is a solemn talk here about inclusion and democracy, the draft has not been asked either by the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families or by the Association of Associations of Estonian Pensioners, what they think of this proposal, because it is irrelevant. I asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs if representatives of representative organisations of affected target groups were invited. Of course they didn't. Guys, there's no point in patching it up with a mistake! We all make mistakes in this life, but we haven't enforced that mistake yet. Guys, let's get our shit together and let's not pass the law! We have serious issues on the agenda, we go on with them and we reach a political agreement that we will not break the word given by the Estonian state. This is a clear, unambiguous message from the IRL to the politicians of the government union, who are all personally responsible if the decision to abolish parental pension comes into force. Friends, the choice isn't you and me, it's our thing, and we're all responsible. Let's not make a mistake and let's not fix it with another mistake! The IRL proposes to reject this draft law at first reading, with the agreement that we will, of course, support an increase in the average pension tax exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U909	Good speaker, your time is up! Please ask Mikhail Stalnukhini, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U910	Thank you. Plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U911	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U912	The Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not support this bill. Delaying the entry into force of the parental pension is immoral. This pension is expected and should come from 1 January next year. But to say we don't support such a change, I wouldn't need eight minutes. I want to talk about something else. Look, there's been a very interesting situation. I've already talked about it in the round of questions. After all, Social Democrats have always positioned themselves as guardians of the social interests of a large part of the population. Now we see what's going on with the parental pension. There will also be a reform of unemployment insurance, which will also be done with the hands of social partners. The reform of the capacity allowance, another step, is also done with the hands of sots. It is interesting to read the Soviet election programme for the 2011 Riigikogu elections. Of course, I will not be able to introduce it fully, but at least assess this place: 'We will lower the rate of VAT on tickets to food, medicines and cultural events to 5%, thereby reducing the prices of tickets to food, medicines and cultural events. ' They promised to restore the local government's revenue base at 2008 level. They promised to separate 15% of excise duties on fuel for the maintenance of local roads. What they're doing right now is exactly the opposite of what they're saying. What is happening now is based on one clear model. In the 17th century, poet Jean de La Fontaine lived in France. He's got a piece of paper called Monkey and Cat. Since I'm going to tell you this story in free form, I'm going to replace the monkey with a squirrel. The thing is, there's a squirrel sitting by the fireplace, there's a cat next to him. The squirrel has a terrible appetite, he wants the chestnuts in the fireplace. But he doesn't want to fish the chestnuts out of the fire and start talking softly about the cat. The cat is so stupid, it's gonna get trapped and start bringing chestnuts out of the fire by burning its paws. The squirrel starts eating them, but then the kitchen boy comes. The squirrel sees him in time and bangs away, and the cat gets beat up. Ladies and gentlemen, you are the cat in this model. But I have to say a few words to the IRL. You were the cat in the previous government, you carried the chestnuts out of the fire. The Reform Party is a great master in such tricks, each of its partners turns into a cat who rolls chestnuts out of the fire for a monkey, or squirrel. Without will, there will be an infinite number of parallels as one or the other partner has been used to increase its power. One possible parallel, which I think is entirely justified, can be drawn by the way Jossif Stalin came to power. In the early 1920's, he fought with men such as Bucharin, Rykov and Tomski against the left-wing position, after which all the Buharins and Rykovs became superior, and then he fought with the help of other men. One by one, he was able to handle everyone, and when he had secured his power, they just shot them all. So you're being used all the time. But I think the comparison with Stalin is too global. In fact, what is going on with another partner of the Reform Party in the government can also be explained a little more easily. 13 years ago there was an exhibition of cartoons dedicated to the tenth anniversary of the restoration of independence in the corridor of the Riigikogu. I still have one picture in my head. There were three animals in this picture: cancer, rhinoceros and a squirrel. The rhinoceros had two fingers on the tail of the squirrel and handed it to the cancer. Everyone in this hall understands what I'm talking about. Everyone knows what the situation was in the 1990s. The rhino said he had nothing to do with it, take it for himself to use as a condom or for anything. It happens that someone is being exploited, but it is not possible that all partners will be exploited in ten years. Hence my message, which I would like to address to both the respected Soviets and the IRL. People! There's summer ahead, there's plenty of time to talk, enough time to find a common language. I am very unacceptable to the IRL, but I honestly say that even I agree with a moratorium on some issues in order to have a coalition in the Riigikogu where there is no Reform Party. He destroys his partners, he destroys normal political life in this country. You know what I'm talking about. I was not allowed to go to political debates before the election. As soon as the IRL left the government, he disappeared from the momentous picture, and now they're being replaced by soccer, if there's another partner coming after the election, they're going to disappear, and so on. Hey, let's get some sense! We have the strength to join together and to join together in a gang to the same Reform Party, which is constantly using us all, and is doing so in such a way that it only comes to the Republic of Estonia unfortunately. We do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U913	Thank you. I will ask the Riigikogu for a speech chair in Inara Luigas and I will tell you immediately what political group she represents. I get it, but he's got a warrant, and we can watch it right now. The speech chair of the Riigikogu is Inara Luis, who represents the Group of the Social Democratic Party in the negotiations. Please, Inara!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U914	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a little hard for me to start my speech because the previous waitresses have planted a lot of negative energy here. But I'm not subject to your provocations and I'm starting with the current Social Minister's statement that it's infinitely awesome to be in government at a time when child support is rising. That's the introduction I want to start with my little report on this bill. First of all, I would like to say that Estonia has always had some goals; it has had bigger and smaller goals. We all remember how we tried to get rid of the so-called previous Union and how we wanted to be members of the European Union. That's what we got. It was, of course, a great achievement to become a member of NATO. Undoubtedly, many believe that joining the euro area has been an achievement. After all, all these objectives were set to ensure the economic, political and financial security of the Estonian state. All political parties have also had bigger and smaller goals. Social democrats have always had one big goal: to get children out of poverty. Reducing child poverty has been one of the greatest goals of the Social Democratic Party. Small steps, however, have been taken towards this goal. If the Estonian state has achieved all these listed goals, it is totally unacceptable that there are still families where children go to bed on an empty stomach. I'm asking for more time, just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U915	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U916	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U917	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings: s. a on 9 and 12 June. The meetings were attended by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Head of the Department of Taxation Policy Lemmi Oro and Adviser Elo Haugas, as well as by Lidia Soontak, Head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and an analyst from the Department of Social Policy Information and Analysis Age Viira. As the draft rapporteur told you about the content and objectives of the draft proposal, this draft is divided into two parts: the additional income tax exemption for pensioners will be increased from EUR 210 to EUR 220 and the entry into force of the remaining part of the parental pension will be postponed. I will give you an overview of the questions raised in the Commission and of the progress of the debate that has taken place. The Commission was asked about an additional exemption for pensioners in 2015. The additional tax exemption for pensioners, as I mentioned, will be increased to 220 euros. The Riigikogu also has a draft which increases the overall tax-free minimum to 154 euros. This total means that the estimated average old-age pension will remain exempt for EUR 374 next year. The second point of the draft act concerns the postponement of the outstanding part of the parental pension. The first and second phases of the system will remain in force. The members of the Commission asked whether the postponement would not have an adverse effect. This is described in the explanatory memorandum. The effect of deferring the pension supplement is small, up to 1% of the old-age pension. The question was asked why the risk of adverse effects on the social impact of the deferral of parental pension has been assessed as limited. The effects of the Act have been assessed in accordance with the Code of Conduct for the Evaluation of Impacts of the Good Regulation and the Regulatory Regulation. This guide states that the impact will be assessed as negative if the implementation of the draft is burdensome or restrictive for the target group. However, given that no pensioner has received this pension supplement under the parental pension scheme and that it is a predictable target group, no negative impact can be identified either. This is a postponement of the entry into force of the law, no substantive changes are made to the conditions and bases for the payment of the parental pension. The Commission was also asked why a pensioner would have to apply for income tax exemption if the law could be amended in this respect. According to the originator, the pensioner does not have to submit an application to calculate the additional tax-free income of pensioners. However, in order to calculate the general exemption, the application is necessary to ensure that the exemption is calculated only in one place, i.e. with one withholding agent. The Commission briefly discussed which countries in the European Union tax pensions. In response, we found that pensions are not taxed by Bulgaria, Lithuania, Slovakia and Hungary. Most EU countries tax pensions. I'm not gonna read that list here. If anyone's interested, I'm sure he'll get to know it. The impact on the budget of the postponement of entry into force was also discussed in the Commission. The originator estimates it to be EUR 86 million over three years. This is mainly linked to the time when the state will compensate ex post for the suspended payments to the second pillar of people's pensions during the crisis years. For information, the payments for the compensation of the second pillar amount to EUR 58 million this year, EUR 64 million next year, EUR 72 million in 2016 and EUR 79 million in 2017. Following the consultation, the Commission adopted the following decisions: It was decided to put the draft on the agenda by Tuesday 17 June (with 5 Commission members in favour, 3 against and no abstentions) with a proposal to terminate the first reading (with 5 Commission members in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention). The Commission proposes to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 10 a.m. on 25 June (five Commission members in favour of this proposal, 3 against and no abstentions). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U918	Thank you. You have questions. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U919	Thank you, manager. Good Commission waitress! As you have reported, a meeting of the Commission was attended by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I understood that Jürgen Ligi was in the Commission as Minister of Finance. I will go on with the question put by Helir-Valdor Seeder to the Minister for the Interior, but the Minister did not know how to answer or answered very disproportionately. Did the Minister of Finance say that his idea and proposal is instead to not postpone the payment of the pension supplement to 2018, but to cancel it altogether? Was that something that was said in the committee, or was it misunderstood? Or wasn't Jürgen Ligi the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U920	As far as I know, Jürgen Ligi is still the Minister of Finance. If I recall the debate in the Commission, I dare say that when he said that sentence there, he did, we say, as a person, as a citizen. It wasn't a government position. The position of the government is, however, as the draft states, that the entry into force of the non-implementation part of the parental pension should be postponed for three years. As far as I know, there are no sound recordings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We can check with our officials later, but I remember this dialogue as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U921	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U922	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum refers to the Code of Conduct for the Impact Assessment of the Good Lawmaking and Regulatory Regulation. I expect there will also be a justification for when one or the other draft will have a large, small or non-existent effect. I believe that's where the answer lies. I referred to this, not to the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U923	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You just said here that this bill and the deferral of parental pension have no negative effect. There is an interesting statement in the explanatory memorandum that the target group can be considered small. We all know that we are talking about more than 220,000 people losing their monthly income. Yet, you realize that there is no negative impact, and the initiator says that the target group can be considered small. What, then, is the highly targeted bill of how many people does it start? 220,000 people in Estonia lose financially, but you say it has no impact and the target group is small. From what number of people will the target group be sufficient and will have an impact at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U924	... that you have always been sceptical about this and because of the third year of retirement, an important pension specialist has also resigned. Did I get you right that this is actually what you wanted to say, but you started stuttering in some way and didn't want to make it clear? Please try again to explain whether you support or do not support adding one year to the existing two years of retirement for current pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U925	Thank you. I'll be more specific. Yes, I personally was sceptical about this too in 2011. The coalition agreement provided for us to do this and, of course, I stood by for the implementation of this agreement. Today, there is a proposal on the table before you to pay in addition this one annual grade from 1 January 2018. It's up to you to decide whether or not to legitimize it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U926	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U927	Thank you. Good minister! That proposal you're defending is gonna hurt the mother of a child-rich family the most. Those with more children who have therefore been more absent from the labour market and whose pension is therefore lower. To them, this proposal of yours will be the most painful of all. What is your message to these people, as well as to those who are still considering whether there could be more children in their family? Children's families are relatively few, but a fifth of all Estonian children are born in these families. In the family where children have already been born, children are more likely to be born. What are we gonna tell these people? Why are we doing all this here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U928	Thank you. I've already explained it, but you weren't in the Chamber at the beginning of the discussion either. I explained that it must be made very clear that this change mainly concerns people already in retirement. A very clear message for young families is that child support will increase. In families with children, the rise in child benefit is particularly high. As far as these messages are concerned, if you want, you'll definitely find more. For example, the income support coefficient will be increased from 0.8 to 1, which will help those who are experiencing economic difficulties. There are and there are plenty of these messages for families with children. As far as the pension system is concerned, yes, for the current pensioners, our message is that we are raising everyone's pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U929	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U930	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Many of the current pensioners have been waiting for this legislative amendment, but they must now admit that it will be delayed. Am I to understand that the government is in such a difficult position with the budget that you plan to make such cuts in the future? But why is it planned to do so at the expense of the weakest part of society? They're the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U931	Thank you. You misunderstood. The aim of the current government coalition is to raise everyone's pension and increase tax-free income, which leaves a lot more real pension to all pensioners. The aim is also to increase child benefits when we talk about the most difficult people in social terms. Similarly, we are talking about the rise in the limit of living, we are talking about changing the system of living, where the coefficient for children is not 0.8, but 1.0. In a complex way, this change means that we have the opportunity to target a little more subsidies, a little more to target subsidies in places where the government coalition thinks there is a greater need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U932	Let's move on to item six. The first reading of the draft Act on Child Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Helmen Hunt, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U933	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased to stand before you at first reading of the draft law on child protection. First of all, I would like to say congratulations and thanks. 2011/2015 of the IRL and Reform Party. The 2009 Action Plan included reviewing and updating the Child Protection Act, or the development of a new law, because the old law had fallen behind in time. I would like to thank Mr Pevkur and Mr Rõiva, because they were the Minister for Social Affairs when this bill was being developed, corrected and amended. Indeed, the Estonian Child Protection Act, which was in force for 22 years, which entered into force in 1993, has now lost its innovation, does not reflect the obligations arising from the requirements of life. What else can I say? Previously on "Good practices." In order to assess the impact of the implementation of the Act, an analysis of the effects of the draft RAKE Child Protection Act was commissioned from the University of Tartu Centre for Social Science Applied Studies and a fundamental analysis of the organisation of child protection was commissioned from PricewaterhouseCoopers. The basic analysis you have been able to read and see is 167 pages long. Now I'm talking about the bill. In short, the main keywords of the draft are: prevention and early notice; family and parents are the primary guarantors of child welfare; cross-cutting cooperation between all parties, such as education, health, law enforcement and welfare, but also precisely between different levels such as government, public authorities, municipalities. All this in order to ensure, in cooperation, the protection of children's rights and the support of the state to the local level through child protection activities. What else to talk about? The adoption of the Child Protection Act in the Riigikogu would be symbolic, which concerns everyone, because the draft makes the values of the entire society more child-friendly and more inclusive to children and families. Instead of dealing with the consequences, the draft will take the direction to prevent problems. It is important to assist children and their parents before problems arise (behavioural problems, mental disorders, child abuse, etc.). The draft provides for prevention as a principle that must be guided by all activities relating to children. At the same time, the state undertakes to give priority to prevention when planning its activities. What else? The development of prevention work is already underway, with three ministries developing and implementing a number of preventive activities in schools, in particular against school bullying, through a risky programme. The Parenthood Programme supports parents and enhances the capacity of local authorities in prevention. We have come to a stage where the explicit ban on child abuse and physical punishment is stated. The state is taking measures to support parents to provide teaching and guidance on how to deal with children without violence. International experience confirms that, for 35 years, punishment has been banned in Sweden, the Law on the Prohibition of Physical Punishment has also significantly reduced violence against children. Estonia is now entering the ranks of developed countries that value the child and its human rights. The draft specifies how to inform and assist a child in need of assistance. Since 2009, Estonia has been free of charge for children's help 116111. By calling this number, all people can report a child in distress 24 hours a day in Estonian, Russian or English. Where appropriate, the notifier may also remain anonymous. The important thing, though, is that helpers learn about any child in distress. The draft will for the first time create a national child protection organisation with a completely absent national supervision. In addition to the child protection that has been based on the local government, the national organisation together with support, such as counselling, assistance and training, supervision and other supporting activities of the local authorities' child protection workers. The national organisation of child welfare is set up at the existing system, the regional offices of the Social Insurance Board. They are as close as possible to the local government. The state will provide training for child protection workers, as previously mentioned, as well as work advice and supervisions, and will be ready to help with the development of local development plans with advice and strength. Thus, the local government receives real support for the organisation of complex child protection cases. The draft is accompanied by very comprehensive implementation plans and impact assessments. What else can I say? The draft states that the child protection worker is a social worker with a special education. This educational requirement will apply from 1 January 2020, i.e. people currently in child protection have time to improve and learn. For those working before the entry into force of the new version of the Child Protection Act as from 1 January 2016, the educational requirement will apply two years later, i.e. 2022. When the Chancellor of Justice audited and looked at the situation of the municipalities, it turned out that there were no child protection workers in every municipality, unfortunately. In order to have more of these employees, municipalities need to be advised and supported, as well as clarification of the need for a child protection worker. However, very many municipalities have made child welfare a priority. I very much hope that the debate on the draft law on child protection raises questions and debate. Kids are a priority for all of us. However, both the Chancellor of Justice, who is the children's ombudsman, and the Auditor General's audits have shown that a large proportion of children live in poverty. We are on the road to poverty alleviation and eradication when child benefits rise from 1 January 2015 and school lunch comes free of charge in upper secondary schools. I do not think there are any members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who would oppose it. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U934	Thank you very much. You already have a few questions. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U935	Thank you very much. Madam Minister! It is clear that we do not object to free school food because we ourselves introduced it in our own time. But, as we can see, the broader principle of this law, as you mentioned, is prevention, early intervention and helping children in need as quickly as possible. At the same time, child protection workers believe that they should have more rights when entering the child's home. That's what we've been talking about. How can we solve this problem? Child welfare workers consider that they cannot intervene as soon as possible if they do not have these rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U936	Thank you for that question. Indeed, the new law also states that a child protection worker and a police officer can enter the child's home. A policeman has been brought here to help and support because a child welfare officer has a risky entry on his own, and there may be a question of safety. With a cop, he can enter, that's the frame of the law. I forgot earlier, but this is certainly very important: over 400 proposals were received for this bill. Children and young people were able to speak in the proceedings on the draft. That is why I think this bill has worked out very well too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U937	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U938	Thank you. Madam Minister! I come to the subject of child protection workers, which my colleague has already talked about. You said that we will be calling in 2020 for these people to have special preparation and higher education. Aren't we raising the bar too high? You said yourself that there wasn't enough staff. That's what I'm interested in, what a shortage of child protection personnel we have. When can we talk about having all the jobs fully completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U939	Thank you for your question. In fact, however, for those child protection workers who are already in employment, this educational requirement will enter into force from 2022. Only those employed after the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2016 will be subject to this requirement from 2020. The fact that child welfare workers are really missing is true. But when we go to the doctor, we want the doctor to have a special education, we want him to be a higher education specialist. I think it is best for children to have professional higher education in this area. At present, however, there is sufficient time for special education, training, continuing training, where appropriate distance learning or evening training. We cannot let this bar down for our most precious property, or children, because the difficult cases that arise in child welfare require special skills and the right attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U940	Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U941	Thank you very much. Good minister! The current Prime Minister, former Minister of Social Affairs, has called this new law the best child protection law in the world. You have said that this is not, in your opinion, the best child protection law in the world. It all reminds me of the work capacity reform that the draft will still be in this Chamber today. There is an enormous amount of praise in advance that something is either the best in the world or it is a major change of principle. I agree that there is a need for a new child protection law, and there are a lot of good things in this bill. However, substantive changes to the childcare system have been deleted. The final agreements with the municipalities, I understand that, have also not been reached on the side of the application, which is why there is a question of financing. You've said it's not the best child protection law in the world. So what are the gaps here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U942	Thank you for your question. Maybe it's because of my age, but I'm not a super-comparable talker. I think every law can be improved. I don't think any law developed is the best in the world. Every law changes over time. Surely either we are going to change certain laws, or the people who sit in this Chamber after us, and the Child Protection Act will probably be amended. As for the fact that there are some things that are either unresolved or not agreed, there is no doubt that this will not impose additional obligations on the municipalities, but will go to their aid. From the state, specialists are coming to the Social Insurance Board who are ready to move on mobile to where more serious cases have occurred. There is cooperation between ministries, as children's protection problems also need to be addressed in education and law enforcement. Every law can be improved. I just assume that the new law is definitely better than the one that came into force in 1993.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U943	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U944	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a pleasure to discuss the Child Protection Act with you. But I mean, the best protection for children is a caring parents and a harmonious family. The state could do this here to recognise the contribution of the parents. Just five minutes ago, with your mental approval, you are the socialist ideology on this issue, we said that we actually do not value parents. Now this so-called best child protection law in the world has been put in place. What does this Child Protection Act provide for a normal Estonian family, children living in normal conditions, like most Estonian children? I am not talking about risk cases and so on, where there are a lot of different issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U945	Thank you, Honourable Asker. When I introduced the draft, I mentioned the main keywords. The second was that family and parents are the primary guarantors of the child's well - being. It is firmly recorded in the law, for example, in the previous law it was not. There's no doubt there's a network, grandparents and everything. The previous questioner also mentioned the best child protection law in the world. I don't think it's the best child protection law in the world. I think this is a good law on child protection, which will certainly be amended over time. You used the word 'normal'. I do not consider a family with young parents who may need guidance and support and who are just learning to be a parent to be abnormal. Rather, the situation is that very normal families seek help if they fail to cope with a problem, either in raising a child or in personal relationships. I think these are very normal people who come and ask for help. Rather, it would be bad if they did not do so and their children would suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U946	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! Today, the Chancellor of Justice also appeared in this Chamber, who, in his 2013 activity review, pointed out that he expected a great deal from the new Child Protection Act. This new law is very voluminous, but it could also be said to be declarative. This law will be accompanied by implementing acts, the implementation of which will require money. We heard here a while ago that there was no money for a parental pension. How and when will the money be found to implement the Child Protection Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U947	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U948	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U949	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U950	... requirements. Here's the question. How is it possible that § 17 (2) of the draft law states that the municipality can, if necessary, create a child welfare worker's post if the tasks are...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U951	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there are different councils that deal with very specific problems, but life is a whole. These six ministers will meet regularly in different councils anyway. One advantage of the Council, which is expected to work in 2016, may be that it deals specifically with children's issues. Such a prevention council would be more involved in the area. But I agree with you in this respect that these councils should be reviewed. It would certainly be necessary to make better use of the time of ministers, as well as of those who, as representatives of local governments and voluntary organisations, often participate in the work of these Soviets during their spare time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U952	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U953	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have pointed out that problems due to the lack of a child welfare officer are particularly present in smaller municipalities, which is also natural. As a positive example, you brought the merged Viljandi municipality. At the same time, you said that it would solve the problem if the municipal income base were to grow. But in order to hire specialists in every narrow field in a very small municipality, the income of the municipality should increase several times, not a single percentage. It is clear that your government does not increase the revenue base of local governments in this way. Would it not be more reasonable, then, to support the merger of local governments, even through state coercion, so that local governments are large and capable enough to employ specialists in this field and in other areas of social work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U954	Thank you. If you will allow me, I will stick to the draft law on child protection, because I am certainly not a specialist in debating or expressing an opinion on the merger of rural municipalities. I simply pointed out that sometimes small municipalities can also offer social services, there is a small municipality that can offer 26 social services, but there are larger municipalities that do not offer them. Sometimes it is a question of priorities. Why did I give this example? I really appreciate it when local governments agree to solve welfare problems. There has been very good cooperation in the care of both the elderly and the children. It will undoubtedly help to make better use of resources and knowledge, and this will ensure a better result. Yes, I think that cooperation on a subject such as social welfare is very important. If it is accompanied by what happened after Viljandi's parish was formed, that cooperation will be only positive. But I would stick to the draft law on child protection, because I am not an expert on the merger of rural municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U955	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U956	Good manager! Good waitress! There's a bill for child protection on our desk, good and substantial. This is a very welcome and very necessary draft. Child welfare is certainly one of the biggest problems of orphanages. How do you see the solution to the fact that orphanages are now financed on the basis of a bounty? At the same time, we know that it is best for us to be able to send children to live with our families. We now have a new desire and idea for family houses. Eight children could live in one family home at most, and this limit is still to be reduced. If, in the middle of the year, you can send children away from an orphanage, the bounty will be reduced. How do you think this problem could be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U957	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, your colleague, honourable member of the Riigikogu, Kaia Iva, raised the topic of a replacement home. The most important role of the Child Welfare Act is to reduce the number of children sent to a replacement home. The best growing environment for a child should be his or her own family. When a child enters a substitute home, it is when he or she is quickly adopted or can start living in a family that gives him or her a better chance of coping in the future. But surely there will be a certain number of children who will not be adopted. Unfortunately, in Estonia these examples are not rare, if for some reason a child who has gone to a replacement family is the reason for this family or child, he or she must return to the substitute home. Not all the problems with this law can be solved, but I very much hope that this is one good basis for fewer and fewer children to enter a substitute home.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U958	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U959	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The new law should provide more protection against child abuse, including physical abuse. At the same time, the abbreviation for the title of this law, LAKS, sounds somewhat ironic. Researchers from the University of Tartu have produced a report that contains the opinion of experts. However, the explanatory memorandum to the law only points out positive; the shortcomings are not very indicated there. Why is that? The new law, LAKS, speaks of such goals as ensuring the child's overall well-being, valuing children, supporting families and parenthood. The aim of the Act is to promote the rights of the child and establish a cross-sectoral child protection regime for the well-being of the child. However...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U960	Time's up. When the bell rings, one minute has passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U961	Thank you for your question. As you can see, I have never used that abbreviation. I guess that's the short version. The abbreviation of the Social Welfare Act is also made up of the first letters of the words. I do not think it is a very good abbreviation, so I will certainly never use it myself. The basic analysis of the renewal of the organisation of child protection and the impact analysis of the draft, carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the University of Tartu Centre for Applied Social Sciences, have indeed also highlighted the risks and risks to which attention must be drawn and which must be ruled out or minimised. Positive effects have been highlighted simply because it is possible to minimise or even prevent these risks on the basis of positivity. I very much hope that these risks and analyses will be known by specialists and that implementing legislation on child protection will be developed. Fortunately, there is enough time until 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U962	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U963	Thank you. Dear Minister, This law on child protection has been called the best in the world by the Prime Minister, former Minister of Social Affairs. I think, in fact, we would all be much better off if we did not have to make such a law at all and children could grow up without any law. But I have a question about § 25. It talks about a ban on the distribution of violent and pornographic objects. Paragraph 2 states that the production, demonstration and distribution of such films to children is prohibited. I know a little bit about the way things are in Lithuania. Many things are forbidden there, among other things, the promotion of sexual relations between same-sex people is prohibited. I want to know whether, during the procedure for this draft, we also have this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U964	Thank you for your question. Indeed, as you pointed out, § 25 (1) and (2) of the draft law regulates the distribution of works promoting pornographic content and violence and cruelty. Everything is not rewritten here because it is partly governed by other laws. Your question must have been due to the future partnership law. In the two and a half months that I have been Minister of Social Affairs, there has been no debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U965	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U966	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Paragraph 28 (2) of the draft law states that the financial well-being of the child must be assessed as a minimum when assessing the child's need for assistance. At the same time, the Child Welfare Act does not deal with how it would be possible to legally obtain child maintenance benefits from a parent who does not raise a child. The main problem is the poverty of parents raising a child on their own, as the allowance cannot be recovered from another parent. Don't you think getting a living allowance should be provided for in the Child Protection Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U967	Thank you for your question. I think the maintenance problem is very serious, but it is not the subject of the Child Protection Act. The fact that child benefits are also rising is not the subject of the Child Protection Act. However, the Child Welfare Act regulates other areas. The livelihood problem, I think, is extremely important to solve. I am quite convinced that the next coalition and Riigikogu will discuss this after March 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U968	Thank you. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U969	Thanks! I, too, thank you, Madam Minister, for your substantial work as a minister and for everything you have done in the social field in your life. You must be my favorite minister in this government. In the law, all roles are well distributed, which should be done by the local government and one or the other body. But there's such an interesting double-deck in this government. You are attending events with Mr Kruus. What about this law? Is it the responsibility of the Hunter for children's social affairs, but if there are problems with the health of the child or if it is necessary to send the child to work for the summer, it is a matter for Mrs Kruus? How are you doing with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U970	Thank you very much for your question. I just want to say in return, I like you, too. As for the fact that we're here alone with Kruus, believe me, the next bill is to be introduced to Kruus. We're all well-shared. I think the more ministers deal with children, the better the outcome. If there are health issues, Mr Kruus will deal with them, but the problems and social problems associated with raising a child really belong to me. So believe me, it only improves the result when more ministers deal with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U971	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U972	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. So far, social child protection organisations have also played a major role in helping the public sector in this difficult labour law. Perhaps you can give us a little insight into whether and what will change for social organisations? Hopefully things will get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U973	Thank you. I said at the beginning, and it is also written in the material, that over 400 amendments were tabled to the draft. I very much want to recognise organisations in the third sector, such as the Children's Protection Association and the Estonian Parents' Association, in addition to them, I recognise UNICEF, the Estonian Children's Foundation, the Estonian Youth Association, the Estonian Student Association, and definitely municipalities, cooperation bodies. The Association of Estonian Children's Educators and the Estonian Alliance of Children's Rich Families have made a huge contribution. What's gonna change for them? At first, it was said that the three ministries had initiated a number of activities within the framework of Norwegian projects. Non-profit organisations also have considerably more resources and opportunities to apply for money specifically for child protection activities. That's what they do very actively. The same organisations that I called as contributors to lawmaking are very active, contributing to the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U974	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U975	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, you and Urmas Kruus are very well suited to the ministry, and you will fit together like the Top and Spot of your time. But the content of my question is § 24 and 25. I understand that under the ban on child abuse, the old good methods used by the churchwarden to raise Toots are history and cannot be applied anymore. But Article 25 says that it is forbidden to distribute publications, films, and many other things that encourage violence among children. How can it be actually put into practice? I'll see what movies my four sons are watching, which movies are available to them. I dare say that most of them contain violence. Computer games are also mostly war games. How is such a provision of law compatible with reality? Or is that just a "claratory" provision that cannot be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U976	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I am really glad that the draft law on child protection is finally before us. My question is about Chapter 8, which talks about the protection of the rights of a child separated from the family. This imposes on the local authority the obligations that it must monitor in the case of a child who is separated from the family, in the appointment of a guardian, in the placement of his or her replacement care or in other institutions. But we know that the local government of the guardian of children is largely separated from the family. Depending on the capacity of the municipality, situations vary greatly. What could be the measures to ensure that the local government is fully committed to providing care for children separated from the family rather than for some institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U977	Thank you. This is an extremely important issue. The current law also focuses on supporting, helping and training families where possible, so that children do not need replacement care. However, despite the adoption of this law, there will certainly be a number of children who still need this care. The primary principle is that a child should grow up in a loving family. Municipalities are very actively trying to find adoption options instead of replacement families. At the same time, adopting a child of a certain age is very difficult. You are right again, some children often find themselves in a situation where the so-called state intervention does not actually ensure that they can cope independently when they reach their adulthood and leave the institutions. The housing offered to them by the municipality is also very different. Very often, when talking to child protection workers, it has come up to the question that it may not be right to direct the child back to the municipality where his or her biological family lives and where bad relationships can develop, especially in small places where everyone is known and known. There are good examples of how municipalities have agreed to allow social housing or space for a child from another municipality. I'm sure this law won't solve everything, but some things will get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U978	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U979	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. This draft has done a great deal of work and it is accompanied by well-prepared material. My question concerns the audit of the National Audit Office 'Organisation of Child Welfare in Municipalities and Cities'. Its conclusions are quite critical. It is believed that the organisation of child protection work in municipalities does not provide assurance that the child will receive help at the right time, at an early stage of his or her social problems. One of the reproach is that in child welfare and child protection, the state has been too timid in setting rules of play, according to the National Audit Office, and has left the local governments a very large margin of discretion. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made attempts to influence the system, but the elimination of several fundamental bottlenecks has so far been avoided. Will the new Child Protection Act remove these bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U980	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, it is the same here that the state must go to the municipality to help either through the Social Insurance Board or the like. The state must go to help, advise, help and support, if necessary financially, and it must train child protection workers. Clearly, this law is a step in this direction. This does not guarantee a 100% solution, but in any case it supports the achievement of the objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U981	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U982	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your constructive explanations and for bringing this draft before the Riigikogu. My first question concerns chapter 7 'Child in danger'. This has recently been a very serious subject for debate. Last year there was a tragic incident in Lääne-Virumaa, which we all remember when one of the children in danger, unfortunately, died tragically. This raised questions, in particular, about the forms and network of cooperation between child protection workers and the police. It is great that we have received regulation that focuses very thoroughly on this issue. My question is specifically about the contribution of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I hope you have been thinking about how to strengthen local networks in the coming years, police workers, child protection workers, social workers, in order to better protect children who are in particular at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U983	Thank you for your question. If you were a minister, I stressed several times in briefings that the youth police and child protection workers have very good cooperation in many municipalities. Again, I give an example of my beloved hometown, Viljandi. Speaking of contributions or possibilities, there is an agreement on cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. We have a general list of children's shelters to find out where to deliver the child. A child welfare officer or a police officer does not necessarily need to take this child home. This network, which was launched when you were a minister, is still working very successfully. We have a lot of work to do here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U984	Thank you. Please, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U985	Thank you. Minister, I would first of all like to congratulate the Ministry on the very good and thorough explanatory statement that has been included in this draft. My question concerns local authorities and their child protection workers. § 17 of the draft law sets out the tasks of the local government unit in organising child welfare. They are not voluntary, they are compulsory, all municipalities must comply with them. Paragraph 18 (1) of the draft law states that a child welfare officer is an official who carries out these tasks in the field of child welfare. Perhaps there must be an official in each municipality who carries out these tasks. Maybe we can make an exception to Piirissaare, one of the 215 municipalities, where I know there aren't kids, but the rest of us have to fill them out. It's their duty under this law. It's also foreseen...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U986	Honourable questioners, one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U987	Yeah, I'm sorry! How is it possible that it is only if necessary...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U988	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Child Protection Act, which will apply from 1 January 2016, requires money. For the purpose of partly reorganizing the work of the Social Insurance Board. This is certainly the subject of negotiations between the next coalition and the 2016 budget. Without a doubt, this law requires money. Adoption without additional resources would make the law declarative. Evidently, any move involving the interests or protection of children requires certain means. But the amount that goes for this law can certainly not be compared to the benefits of finding these resources. The explanatory memorandum also gives a very precise description of the years in which all of this is done. At the beginning, I said that the IRL and Reform Party Action Plan had an excellent objective within it to develop a new Child Protection Act, which has now been achieved. It is also included in our current coalition agreement. Here are also, for example, calculations of further training for child protection workers in the years 2015 to 2020 and are well-written in the explanatory memorandum. So, no doubt, this law demands money, but I expect and hope that this is the subject of budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U989	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U990	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I agree with you that there are many good points in this law. But, unfortunately, there are also a number of questionable issues that I drew attention to earlier in the proceedings, when the government coalition was still different. Paragraph 24 has given rise to the most discussion in society. Unfortunately, this part of the explanatory memorandum focuses only on physical violence, everything else has been left completely unwritten. As § 24 (1) also involves neglecting a child, it is likely that parental rights should be removed from some parents working here today in the Riigikogu hall whose children have been neglected at home. If there is no interpretation in the explanatory memorandum of how you think the public will interpret the child's neglect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U991	Thank you for your question. I don't quite agree with that. Paragraph 24 (1) covers mental, emotional, physical, sexual or other abuse of a child. These projects, which have been launched in the framework of parental programmes even before the adoption of the new Child Protection Act, are certainly a step towards preventing such a thing from occurring. The aim is not to deprive anyone of their parental rights, rather the opposite. We cannot be satisfied that very many children are being sent to a substitute home. We find that the right place for a child to grow is family. We support the family precisely so that it can cope with the problems on its own. There is a great deal of room for this in both the explanatory memorandum and the analysis. An analysis of 167 pages shows the importance of each section and the activities envisaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U992	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U993	Thank you. Minister, it is a pleasure to see you here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu so late in the evening! I am interested in the intention of the state to set up four centres of competence that should start coordinating child protection work in local governments. Can you describe the competence and organisation of these four competence centres to be created? Do the four centres mean once again that Estonia is divided into four "traditionally" and, in my opinion, horribly, and these centres have already been designated: Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and probably Jõhvi in Ida-Virumaa? Is it not possible to choose another option, such as Rakvere, Haapsalu, Võru and Viljandi? Do we know where these centres are going to be and what their operating procedures are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U994	Thank you for your question. When you read the bill, you will see that there are no lines about that there are four centers. Indeed, the basic analysis of the innovation in child protection arrangements has indicated that there could be four centres in the initial phase if the state does not have more money. They are simply localized. I don't think it's right. In this same analysis, it has been pointed out that there could be eight of these centres, among others, in our beloved hometown of Viljandi. In fact, there will be exactly how much money will be found in these centers. That's one. Secondly, certainly no municipality will fail or support. I, too, do not consider it right that Estonia should be divided into four. I think it is necessary for life in Estonia to be possible everywhere, not just in centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U995	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U996	Thank you. As a member of your Social Affairs Committee, I have been in the process of preparing this draft. We were introduced to this idea. The four competence centers have been talking since the beginning. Now you're saying there could actually be more of these centers than the country has more money. This shows what officials who prepared the draft acknowledged in their conversation that the reform of child welfare services was actually excluded from the initial task. The Sofas have always stressed that we need to reform the administration, particularly in the area of services. In some ways, this is a law on child protection, not by mouth, but somewhere else. You said, in answer to the previous question, that there would be centres of competence, but they would be made as much as necessary, rather than how much money there would be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U997	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U998	We are not dealing with this important part, or the substantive services of local governments. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U999	Thank you for your question. I say once again that none of the points in the draft law states that there are four competence centres in Estonia. The analysis has referred to the possibility of doing so, but it is certainly possible to do otherwise. It's not in the bill. You were talking about the initial problem. Unfortunately, I do not know how the starting point was presented in 2011. However, I do know what the result is now and how local governments have been involved, the subject discussed and child welfare workers involved. I can now answer Valeri Korb's question, which I didn't answer before. In 2012 there were 187 child protection workers in Estonia, all of whom, Margus Tsahkna, have been negotiated and discussed. Municipalities and rural governments are involved in these discussions. In 12 rural governments there were child protection workers, 160 of whom had special education. On this basis, it can be argued that only a small percentage of child protection workers, i.e. 14%, do not have a special education. The question, however, is that there could be more child welfare workers, not just 187. After all, there are also good municipalities such as Tallinn, Viljandi and Tartu, where there is more than one child protection worker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1000	Thank you. Please, Juhan Parts, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1001	Thank you. Minister, I congratulate you, you have good answers. But my question concerns a child in need. Let's try to bring together real life and legal. A few years ago, as far as I know, Helsingin Sanoma wrote that Estonian children must be eating leaves. I ironed it, and that's why I remember it. From time to time, it comes out again that the children of Estonia, which has also been spoken of as a percentage, are starving. It's gonna hurt us all. Chapter 6 of the law should, in my opinion, address this issue. Everyone, I mean, not first and foremost, citizens, but schools, children's institutions, who should notice a hungry child, should respond. Here's the whole procedure. I think you know this thing. If we adopt and implement the law, can we say that the stomachs of Estonian children are full?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1002	This is certainly a very important question, but, Juhan Parts, a young member of the Riigikogu, the question must fit in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1003	Thank you. Honourable questioner! Actually, I don't know what you said in 2011. My claim on children living in relative poverty or poverty comes from the analysis and studies carried out by the child ombudsman. The children's ombudsman has highlighted these percentages. It's just national statistics. As far as the adoption of this law is concerned, the law certainly does not fill the belly of the child, but more children in need will be reported. There are also municipalities with only social workers who are definitely doing their best, but sometimes this is not enough. Indeed, a kindergarten teacher or a schoolteacher also notices such a child, and such cooperation also works without this law. Here is a specific example of how we should behave in this case. After all, Estonians are a law-abiding nation. If such a law has been passed and the figures have also been highlighted, it may simply give some officials or ordinary citizens more reason to deal with it. If it's in the law, we hope more will be announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1004	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1005	Thank you. Dear waitress, You still didn't answer my last question. The question was why some of the definitions in § 24 as the most discussional section have not been fully opened in the explanatory memorandum, such as intimidation or neglect of a child. I confess honestly: I have told my children, for example, that if they don't clean the room tonight, the elf won't bring candy in the slipper the next morning. It's a classic scare. At least I want to see in the bill's explanatory statement whether or not I've acted contrary to the Child Protection Act. It is essential that these concepts are clarified. Right now, my kids are home on their own, and I confess once again. Have I neglected them or not? Why do you think the explanation of such important concepts is missing from the draft explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1006	Thank you. I think bringing a dwarf and a slipper in candy is more of a positive motivation. I don't want to judge whether anyone has neglected their children. I don't have that role today, I'm defending the Child Welfare Act here. I agree with you so that the explanatory statement can probably be improved, although I refer once again to the fact that this is all set out in the impact analysis. Today is the first reading. We can certainly improve and refine everything together. By the IRL, you contributed to the drafting of this bill, and I very much appreciate this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1007	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1008	Thank you. Madam Minister! My question concerns § 35 of Chapter 9 'Children's Institution'. This section states that the municipality provides inpatient health care to children. Can you expand our knowledge of how a local authority can provide health services?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1009	Thank you. I'm going to do that section right now. The municipality also provides health care to children in schools, true nurses on the payroll of the health insurance fund. Nurses work in schools, often also logo beets, because the logo beet service is also a medical service. These are the services provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1010	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1011	Thank you for your question. It is not, in fact, a declaratory provision, but, as is often the case with laws, we are moving towards this goal. As far as the methods of the churchwarden you mentioned are concerned, we cannot imagine that someone is coming and hitting an adult, but the child is also an individual, a person. He is not allowed to be defeated by law, just as it is not allowed to be defeated by an adult. Speaking of pornographic or violent works, the role and responsibility of parents are great. This distribution is prohibited in such a way as, for example, not to sell pornographic tapes to minors. I think you'll see what kind of games your children play and what kind of movies they watch. It is also important here that parenting is learned, that these people should be supported. I think this is the way towards what we want to achieve. If you don't mind, I'll give you an example. In Sweden, 35 years ago, child abuse and physical punishment were banned. Astrid Lindgren, our beloved writer, told a story when he received the Peace Prize that made everyone in the hall think. If you will allow me, I will repeat this, although there are relatively few people in the Chamber, but I expect that the honourable members of the Riigikogu will all be at the TV screens and will hear it and, in any case, it will also remain on the verbatim. Astrid Lindgren was told by an old woman that while children in Sweden were still being whipped, she sent a little boy, who had been very naughty that day, to pick up a rod. The boy came back a little while later and cried. He couldn't find the rod because the branches were all too high, but he had a small stone in his hand. He gave this stone to his mother and told her to throw a stone at her because she couldn't find a rod. Then the mother and child sat down and both wept. Mother put this stone on the kitchen cabinet to remind her that it hurts when the child is either thrown with a stone or thrown with a rod. From then on, this family was no longer squeezing, but talking to the child. At the meeting of the social ministers in Stockholm, Queen Silvia, who came to this event, gave a very good example of Estonia becoming part of a country where the law explicitly states that children should not be physically punished. Paragraph 24 contains a list of what may not be done yet. Once again, I congratulate you on putting such a provision in the action plan in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1012	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1013	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, it's good to hear your answers! You are on the subject, and you do not give formal answers, but you talk about the substance and you produce examples. My respect for that! But I'm coming up with more money. I've been defending the state budget myself for many years in this very hall. I will give you the opportunity to look at these tables there and to point out what the cost of this good Child Protection Act will be in the near future. I have another question. You have stated in the explanatory memorandum that the Ministry of Social Affairs has submitted applications to the Ministry of Finance in the context of the RES and has also made an additional application to cover the costs of implementing the Act. What's the situation anyway? What are the figures that you produce for us, what are the oppositions of the Ministry of Finance and so on? Be nice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1014	Thank you. Now, as a credit, I must say, I have learned from the best. When you defended the budget, you never provided empty answers, but answered all the questioners very thoroughly, both from the coalition and from the opposition, and did not formally respond. I've been trying to follow it. As far as the draft is concerned, it was planned to start in 2015. Last year it was said very clearly that this would take place in 2015. On this basis, applications were submitted to the Ministry of Finance. It is now clear that this law will apply on 1 January 2016. There's a lot of spending. Table 5 of the explanatory memorandum sets out the costs of continuing training for child protection workers on a yearly basis, totalling EUR 380560. Table 6 shows the composition of the posts of the Social Insurance Board in the structure unit for child protection. The amounts are back on record. Table 7 shows the number of regular consultation teams. There are many costs, but I can assure you, my hand in the Child Protection Act, because the Bible is not here, or my heart is that the costs are one thing, but the benefits are much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1015	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1016	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! § 19 of the Act states that at the latest two years after entering the service as a child protection worker, a child protection worker must acquire a social worker's profession and specialise in child welfare or in any other field. You said these people should be very good specialists with higher education. At the same time, it is known that current social workers and kindergarten teachers receive pay close to the minimum wage in many municipalities. Shouldn't the Child Protection Act include a rate of pay for child protection workers? Then there would be no situation for a person with a higher education to have to work free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1017	Good questioners, one minute to ask! One minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1018	Thank you for your question. It is true that child welfare workers, as well as kindergartens and kindergarten teachers, pay is low. In fact, these people are not paid well enough, and one of the reasons why there are not enough child welfare workers in municipalities. This issue of how much support the country gives to local authorities is certainly worth discussing if it is able to restore the equalisation fund in its former size, which has been reduced in times of cuts. At the same time, a large number of municipalities have decided that the priority is a child welfare worker, a social worker or a kindergarten teacher. There are also many examples that show that they are paid quite a decent salary. As far as the educational requirement is concerned, the Estonian Social Work Association also felt that this requirement should not be withdrawn. Paragraph 19 sets out the requirements for child protection workers. For those people who are already working, they will apply on 1 January 2022. For those people who will work after the Child Protection Act becomes effective on 1 January 2016, these requirements will apply from 2020. But the problem is certainly that not only child protection workers, but also social workers, have low wages. These salaries are also very different in cities and municipalities, and this is a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1019	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1020	Thank you for your question. I understood the question very well. If you referred to a possible conflict with § 18, there is really only one social worker in several municipalities at the moment, and the job description also places child welfare work on his responsibility. That's why it's in the bill. This includes all persons who are in contact with child-related work, including the social worker whose job description indicates it. We had a long discussion on whether to include a requirement in the law, as had been discussed previously, that there should be one child protection worker for a thousand children living in a municipality. It was considered that such a requirement would lead to a situation where municipalities would not be able to comply with it. If you make an obligation, then you definitely have to find money to do it. There will be unequal treatment of local governments who, however, have hired a child protection worker and have found the means to do so themselves. If support were to be granted to those who have not yet done so, they have not always failed to do so because they had no money to do so, perhaps they had other priorities, then we would punish those who have prioritised children and have solved these problems themselves. You said there were no children on Piirissaar. Then there is really no need for a child welfare officer, but maybe someday a child will come or still be there now. I agree with you that every municipality could have a child welfare worker. That's the law. It's the way. However, municipalities are also trying to do this work with scarce resources, using social workers. I will give you another example of where I live. Ringsvald was created around Viljandi city, Viljandi municipality. It will also consider and discuss whether to recruit a common child protection worker who is more competent in this area. Perhaps there is no point in keeping a child protection worker at work or employing two child protection workers in four places. This depends on how local governments work together to solve such problems. But the idea is that every municipality with children should have a child welfare worker. If there are few children, he can also work part-time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1021	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1022	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Kisler began his question with praises to the Ministry. I, even if I wanted to, wouldn't be able to hold back and say that this kind of professionalism rarely comes across in politics. There could really be much more in this Chamber, with answers of substance and a serious debate like this one. I have a question about the same subject Kisler asked about. I myself know a couple of cases when the local government leaders have confirmed that if there was no special child welfare worker at work in the municipality, it was as if there were no problems, because they were not noticed. How can we achieve that many of the provisions in the draft do not remain declarative, but can we financially cover them and solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1023	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, if you do not have a person with special education or any employees specialising in child welfare, many problems will go unnoticed. They really cannot be seen until a fire has been put out or an accident has occurred. In order for this law to actually be implemented and meet its objective, more needs to be spoken about in society. It is helpful, why not, if there are competence centres at the Social Insurance Board, where there are people who talk more about and deal with this subject. One option has been even discussed to train municipal workers, not only social workers, but also politicians, decision-makers, and to give examples of what the municipality will win if it employs a child protection worker. Eliminating the consequences is much more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1024	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1025	Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask again. I will go on with the issue of local governments, which I touched upon briefly before. The audit of the National Audit Office says that only 38% of the municipalities have a separate child protection worker and one fifth of Estonian children live in a municipality where there is no child protection worker. The bill places such emphasis on the fact that child welfare work is primarily on the responsibility of the municipal child welfare worker; however, it is up to him to find a solution for all problems. I browsed the bill and tried to find a local government revenue base. I saw that the budget of the Social Insurance Board had been increased to organise training courses, but the question arose as to how local authorities would still have to cope with additional tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1026	Thank you. In fact, local authorities have already done this work within their skills and capabilities. We both know how often it is difficult to do this simply because the responsibilities of both the municipality and the state are greater than the opportunities. This law will at least help municipalities to support them in organising training. Indeed, as I said earlier, in certain municipalities the job description of one person states everything: child protection, people with special needs, the elderly. At other times, when it is a small municipality, it also includes the promotion of cultural life. It happens a lot. I agree that the ideal option should include a child protection worker in the municipality. But in order for local governments to recruit these people, money is needed, in addition to what has been provided for training. Often people complain about lack of money, but nobody complains about lack of wisdom. I hope that if there is an increase in the revenue base, there will also be enough wisdom to employ these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1027	Thank you. Please, Ken-Marti Vaher, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1028	Madam Minister! My second question concerns the child protection council, the formation of which is provided for in § 13 of the draft. This is the new council, which is well written in the explanatory memorandum. There have also been mention of the six ministers who, in many ways, are exposed to prevention in society. By "prevention work," we mean all actions and steps aimed at preventing possible deviant behaviour, offences, crime, etc. We have quite a number of similar bodies, such as the Crime Prevention Council, the Drugs Prevention Council, etc. Have you also considered whether we would not need a single prevention council, which could include all the honourable six ministers mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, and a broader approach to all prevention in the crime prevention, social protection or child protection rates?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1029	Thank you. Good minister! I still couldn't answer my question. We should certainly do everything we can to prevent children from entering the orphanage. But the situation now is that orphanage workers are very damaging to sending children to their families because they will lose their bounty. If they lose it in the middle of the year, there are two options: whether people should be gathered together or whether they should expect more children to come. However, can we not see very clearly in this law that, if there are two families in an orphanage, the state will support their maintenance throughout the year, even if workers have been able to put children into their families? It could be a bonus for orphanages that can place children in their families. They do the job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1030	Thank you. Indeed, it is true that bounty funding may not actually guarantee quality in education or social welfare. If a child has gone to live in the family, additional applications have been submitted for funding. I am convinced that no substitute home will hold any children if a suitable family exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1031	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1032	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Even when I was a member of the Social Affairs Committee, children's protection issues were at issue very seriously. I would like to take the example of a question raised by practical problems. If a child in need, along with his parents who are unable to take elementary care of him, changes his place of residence, how does this monitoring system work? We have a relatively loose residence registration system. We recall the same tragic case of a garage child. The parent had come to live in Tallinn, the child was under child protection in the municipality from which the parent left, but later the connection was broken. There'll be other problems. How do we ensure that a signal of need for help or a red safety light comes with the child, regardless of where his parents live?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1033	I'm sorry, answerer! Honourable members of the IRL! This is your methodical behavior. I'm asking you to fit the question in one minute! I understand that you have only recently come to the Riigikogu, but try to control yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1034	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, it is a very big problem with regard to residence, the register of residents and the movement of people, without the municipality they have gone to know anything about them. There are problems not only with children but also with people with special needs. After all, responsible people register for birth grant or whatever. At present, the Social Insurance Board has a large national database. Of course, this does not guarantee that people's homes will be seen there immediately. However, in chapter 6, Child in Need, it is stated that a child in need must be notified immediately and that a telephone number is also provided. I very much hope that this law will help to change the attitude of society, that more attention is paid and more noticeable, and that problems can also be prevented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1035	Please, Urmas Reinsalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1036	Thank you. I fully agree with this general approach, it is the responsibility of the whole of society. But let's imagine the municipality where this child in need has lived. The child welfare officer who has dealt with this child and family will find out that the family has left the municipality. Does he have a future obligation to identify where the family went or where the child is now? Does he or she have to pass the information on to the child welfare officer of another municipality? How is this scheme going to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1037	Thank you for your question. Indeed, if he knows where this child has gone, social workers will communicate with each other on this subject. The problem of often leaving without knowing where they are going is certainly not solved by this law either. Families who are not very law-abiding and have problems generally benefit from a variety of benefits. When they turn to the local government, it is known that such a family has emerged there. But they may also not turn, and it cannot be completely ruled out by this law that we will not have any such cases that these people will not be noticed by the municipality. However, there is definitely a municipality that leaves with problems or concerns in the exchange of information with family, colleagues or the Social Insurance Board. A conscientious child welfare worker or a social worker will certainly do his best. But not registering a place has caused quite a lot of confusion. According to the law, all people should register their residence; they do not have to sign in to the dwelling; they can also register their stay on this dwelling on the basis of a rental contract or other arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1038	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1039	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will now try to finish my question on the other side. My personal feeling is that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not correspond to the content of the law or to the expectations created by the objectives of the law. What assurance do you as a minister have that the obligation imposed on local authorities to provide social services to different target groups will work? So far, it hasn't worked very well. Some municipalities have a social worker without special education, and may even have a basic education. How could this law work in these places?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1040	Thank you very much. In fact, a person with basic education cannot work in a municipality; it must be at least upper secondary school education. That's one. Secondly, however, I have confidence and hope that the draft law and the explanatory memorandum will be very well aligned. I've found it in these two months and two weeks. My faith is also based on the fact that local governments attach great importance to work with children. I know that every local government is trying to ensure social welfare within the limits of its resources and resources. I hope this job only improves. I myself have been a social worker in the municipality. I expect every municipality to try its best, but it doesn't always work out. By this law, the state will help and support families, children, municipalities and also child protection workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1041	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Etti Kagarov, member of the Social Affairs Committee, will be the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1042	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague, it's a pleasure to see you on the floor. There is now an opportunity to ask you about this draft, which is by its very nature a good draft. But I will return to the analysis of researchers at the University of Tartu. You are now the lead on this bill, and I will ask your opinion. I understand that scientists had a claim that the positive side of this good draft has been highlighted, but there may also be something negative here. Do you see anything negative here, too, or does this thing really not have any negative sides, and we can only talk positive with full knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1043	Thank you for a good question. Above all, I see positive for the whole of society here. But there are certainly different things here. I wouldn't call them weaknesses, but I'll give you the funding of local governments. Municipalities can handle these tasks. I do not agree with the previous speakers that they cannot. But there are problems in society and not all problems can be solved. But the people of the municipalities are doing the best they can. There may be other problems, not everything can be predicted. However, I see this bill as positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1044	Thank you. Marko Pomerants, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1045	Ladies and gentlemen, My welcome to the Commission's presentation on the cross-fires, too. I'm glad you've received this honor. I tried twice to become a Commission rapporteur in the debate on the next item, but the Commission did not trust me. I appreciate you gaining the trust of your fellows. I think it's also great that there are people among us from real life. For example, people in this hall who have never been in contact with a local government can talk about the ability of childguards in the municipality of anything. But you, who exactly come from the municipality, and I'm glad you're coming from Virumaa, can speak as things are, even in the example of one of these municipalities. But I only have ten seconds left, sorry for me. On page 82 of the explanatory memorandum, an impact analysis is a part of the impact on the living and natural environment. It says that there is no significant impact on the living and natural environment. Can you accept that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1046	Yeah, I can deal with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1047	Great! From now on, before you begin to grieve that there is little time, you could make a shorter introduction. Kaia Iva, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1048	Thank you. In my opinion, it was truly surprising that the debate on such a fundamental draft law in the Commission was so short, but it will probably be possible to continue this debate when further readings are being prepared. I ask you, as a highly experienced self-governance worker, about family careless children. Municipalities are looking for replacement care in families for separated children. The problem is that when municipalities are very small, families and children may not get together. What kind of cooperation should local governments have here, or how can it be better organised so that children and families in need who are willing to offer replacement care can find each other? What do you think are the odds here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1049	Thank you for your question. I believe that these opportunities still exist and that the municipalities are working together. In order for these families and children to get together, the rural government has also contributed in terms of sharing information. In addition, there are officials at the Social Insurance Board who help the municipal child welfare workers. I know there's also training for new foster parents. There is certainly a need for more, but there is work going in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1050	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Margus Tsahkna! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1051	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies You must think I'm coming here with bad and bad news. But vice versa. I think that the draft law on child protection that we have before us today could be a good example of how the draft law should be drawn up. It's done a lot of work. This work has been very methodological and has involved a large number of people. Child welfare is a very complicated subject. When working on this bill, almost all child protection workers have been interviewed and are in touch with a large number of municipalities. I would like to thank all the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, because I know how difficult it has been to do this work and what the starting point was. A separate tone is Anniki Tikerpuu, Signe Riisalo and Hanna Vseviov, as well as many others have helped to develop this bill. I would also like to thank Minister Helmen Kütt, who, despite the late hours of the night and the very substantial interest of the IRL, did indeed provide very substantive answers. He has been very familiar with this bill in a relatively short time. I will highlight some of the important changes that this bill will make to our child protection. Indeed, the law by which we now organise our child protection is out of date. The new law has been awaited for a very long time. Therefore, in addition to the fact that we are specifically formulating new, up-to-date basic values in the Child Protection Act, which must be used to protect children, it also provides an implementing side, which has been very methodologically thought out. Prevention has been added as a new word. So far, in our social field, perhaps simply because of the development of the country, we have been dealing with the consequences; we have also dealt with them in legislation. However, the new Child Protection Act contains very specific methodological proposals on how to find risk families and how to deal with them, so that children do not end up in social or child protection systems. This job should be proactive. I also hope that the Minister on this board mentioned that this good plan, this implementation plan, which is currently funded by the Norwegian funds for certain projects, will receive real financial cover in future discussions on the state budget in the government. The sums that are needed here are not huge. The withdrawal of parental pension, where we are talking about EUR 86 million, has given rise to much discussion in this Chamber today. We're not talking about that kind of money here. However, the benefits that children's protection law would deliver in practice are considerably greater. I would specifically like to stress to us who are raising children the principle that children must not be defeated or violence should not be used against them. This seems very normal to us, but in fact there is no such direct, so-called declarative principle in any Estonian law. I think it is high time Estonia fixed this position at the level of the law. I'm coming to the troubles now. At the level of the explanatory memorandum, provision is made for the possibility of setting up centres of support or competence; these centres would help municipalities to solve issues related to child protection and care. It's very good in itself. Until now, the state and the Ministry have been dealing with the organisational and legal side, so-called day-to-day cases have been resolved in municipalities. At present, however, the State provides directly for the possibility of dealing with specific cases and, where appropriate, for the help of local authorities in this regard. But the other way around, I see a problem here. So far, no government has had the consensual courage to start dealing with the administration of local governments. I am not talking here about administrative reform as a territorial reform, about where the borders of the rural municipalities run, but precisely what the Soviets have stressed that care services should be reviewed in the municipalities, including child welfare services and their financing. As the Minister mentioned, we should look at the revenue base of the municipalities with this view, so that they can certainly, for example, organise child welfare and provide these services specifically. The criteria set for child protection, for example, are also certainly met, but do not require additional effort from the municipalities. There's still a little danger written in here. This was also referred to by researchers from the University of Tartu who carried out the analysis. It may be that if the municipality is unable to hire a child protection worker meeting such criteria, they may simply lose the child protection job and delegate it to a social worker, as has already been done in many small municipalities. By this, the quality of this work, or the whole system, could be a little damaged. But these are the kind of small things that I really hope will be dealt with after the adoption of the Child Protection Act when this law is implemented. However, I would like to reiterate that, compared, for example, with the next item on the agenda, where there is a reform of working capacity, this reform is still a very thorough debate on reform. An implementation section has also been discussed and agreed with the parties. I think we only have to adopt this law in the Riigikogu Hall. If we are going to process the state budgets for the coming years, we should remember that we have adopted such a good law, and make sure that its implementation is financially guaranteed. This could be a cross-party issue. I don't think there's gonna be a political caption here. I wish everyone strength and courage in implementing this law. IRL supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1052	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 677 should be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1053	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Child Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 12 June. The meeting was attended by Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt, Head of the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs Anniki Lai and Specialist Signe Riisalo and Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs Kersti Berendsen-Koržets. Minister of Social Affairs Helmen Kütt and Legal Adviser of the Ministry Kersti Berendsen-Koržets presented the draft to the members of the committee. The members of the Commission asked questions. Whether the system based on the Social Insurance Board, or the county-based system, is no longer discussed, Aare Heinvee asked. Kersti Berendsen-Koržets replied that the functions of the Social Insurance Board were currently being defined, including regional administration in the direction of local authorities. No new independent centers are created. So far, there has been a lack of a division between the state and local authorities and a unit organising child protection work. Aare Heinvee asked the second question that, if local authorities do not have the resources, they simply cannot carry out these tasks. The key to funding was said to be in the hands of the members of the Riigikogu, which is related to the allocation of money from the state budget. The Committee on Social Affairs decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 June, to close the first reading and to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1054	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1055	The seventh item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act on Disability Allowances initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1056	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I am pleased to present you with the draft law on capacity support, which is part of a larger package of amendments, i.e. the reform of working capacity. With this reform, we want to support the desire and opportunity of people with health impairment to participate in the labour market, taking into account the needs of each individual. The bill will give the person the right and the opportunity to receive financial support from the unemployment fund and all the help needed to get a job. The principles of work capacity reform have been prepared in close cooperation with partners, whom I would certainly like to thank for the time spent and the contribution that has been made. Social protection schemes are being developed and modernised across Europe. People's behaviour and thinking patterns are changing and social protection schemes have to respond to these changes. With this draft, Estonia is moving closer to Europe with the modernisation of its social protection and is also modernising the scheme for determining incapacity for work. At present, we are basically retiring many people of working age and leaving them alone, they have to cope on their own. The new system, however, creates an individual approach; each individual is dealt with separately; its ability and desire to participate in society and the labour market are assessed. That is activation, or encouragement of man's participation. International experience confirms that only this approach is effective and helps people to cope better. The draft introduces three fundamental changes. Instead of loss of work capacity, the assessment of working capacity will take place. This shows what kind of work is suitable for a person, what kind of labour market measures he needs and what kind of services he is best supported by. Two, activity. The new scheme also provides support for people entering and staying in employment. This requires the participation of a person with partial capacity to work in the proposed measures. Third, the evaluation, activation and payment of support will be carried out by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. The system will become clearer and simpler and a person with reduced capacity to work will receive all services from one place. Work capacity reform requires a change in the paradigm and thinking so far. An assessment of a person's ability, not his inability, will help him to find his place in society and participate in the labour market. The new assessment methodology has been developed with occupational doctors, which has been recognised by experts from the University of Tartu. It is also in line with the principles of assessment of working capacity in other European countries and is based on the recommendations of European medical and social security associations. The evaluation will determine whether a person is able to work, has partial or no capacity to work. The draft Employment Allowance Act creates a new type of allowance for work capacity. This allowance is granted to a person who has been identified as having a partial capacity to work or who does not have a capacity to work. The disability allowance is paid in two sizes: EUR 180 for a person with partial working capacity and EUR 320 for a person with no working capacity. From a certain level of income, support will be reduced. The capacity allowance shall be indexed each year. It is important to note that if a person has been found to have lost his or her capacity to work for at least two years and his or her current disability pension is higher than the benefit under the new system, he or she will be maintained at the level of the incapacity pension. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Social services are an integral part of the labour capacity reform. The Government has approved a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. It regulates, for example, the provision of rehabilitation services and the acquisition of tools so that people can go to work and keep their jobs. The Ministry of Social Affairs also allocates EUR 50 million to local governments in the new European Union financial period for the development of social services, including home care, EUR 7 million to enable the carers to go to work, EUR 12 million for disability transport, EUR 9 million for personal helper services, EUR 14 million for welfare services, for sign language interpreters, for rehabilitation, for the acquisition of aids, etc. Employers are motivated by a support package, ranging from the payment of social tax to the payment of wage subsidies and the adaptation of the workplace. In addition, under the Youth Guarantee, the unemployment fund will offer a first job measure aimed at reducing unemployment among young people, including those with disabilities. The unemployment fund also plans to offer a protected and supported job service. The reform will certainly increase the burden on the unemployment fund, as new cases are more complex and require more attention. It is likely that new customers will be damaged by health and have been away from working life for a long time. In this way, finding the best solutions is more time-consuming than it is now. The aim of the reform is also to build on the specific needs of each individual. But creating tailor-made solutions is more expensive. It is expensive to launch the reform, but the costs will start to decrease in the future. It is estimated that the cost of payment of disability pensions will decrease as of 2016. The Unemployment Insurance Fund needs additional staff for the administration of the evaluation of grants and the provision of services. These people are going to work mostly in county offices. The biggest addition is for case managers at a time when the new scheme has the largest number of entrants, while the exit has not yet started. The reform is expected to be implemented through the European Social Fund (ESF) funds from 2014 to 2020. Labour market measures, information systems and inter-agency cooperation, information and the development of an evaluation methodology are planned to be divided into a total amount of EUR 180 million, subject to the implementation of the reform. Labour market services are financed by the European Social Fund during a transitional period when the need for them is most intense. A further service financing scheme can be put in place once the first results of the reform and the actual needs of services and operating costs are visible. Members of the Riigikogu! The reform is comprehensive and affects the whole of society. One of the tasks of the labour capacity reform is to change the hardened prejudices, as if people with reduced working capacity were not full members of society, who have the right to find their place and also to contribute to the labour market if they wish and if possible. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 July 2015, when the new scheme will be applied to people who have not previously been identified as having lost their capacity to work. As of 1 January 2016, the current pensioners for incapacity for work will gradually enter the new scheme, as the period of incapacity for work identified arrives. Of course, it is difficult to plan major changes to the last detail; human behaviour and labour market developments are not always easily predictable. If the reform were to be postponed to a more distant future, it would not be fair to the people that the reform would help to find new opportunities and realise them. The draft has been drawn up following and taking into account the best practices in European countries in modernising the disability scheme. The Nordic countries, Holland, Great Britain, have served as an example. Work on the preparation of the draft has been under way for two years; this has been done with the parties involved in the reform. The development of the reform has been introduced to both the current and previous Social Committee of the Riigikogu. The reform is awaited and supported by the European Commission and the OECD, but above all by people who want to feel equal and inclusive in society. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to support the draft! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1057	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1058	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The draft law is based on the fact that the labour market itself regulates and provides jobs for disabled people. That is why my first question to you is: what kind of candy does the state offer employers in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1059	Thank you. In fact, this reform offers a number of benefits to employers. One example is the monthly payment of social tax, which is assumed by the State. Secondly, the adjustment of jobs is supported especially for those who receive disability benefit. Of course, training, including retraining, is provided both for employers themselves and for people who start working at these jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1060	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1061	Listening to you makes it look like a good law. You're saying there's a petrified notion that people with disabilities are being treated badly in society. In my opinion, no one has taken a bad stand since the Reform Party. You said there are plenty of jobs and employers are supported and supported. The highest percentage of inability to work is in South-East Estonia, as we know. If you go around there, it turns out that there are no vacancies, not to mention that there are jobs for disabled people or for those who are currently at home. How can you convince me that there will suddenly be 10,000 jobs? You must need a total of 50,000 jobs, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1062	Thank you, good questioner! It should be taken into account that this reform will start in the initial phase until 2020. In fact, the maximum objective is that, in the course of this reform, some 15 000 people involved in incapacity for work would enter the labour market. As a minister, I would be very happy if we could bring at least 10,000 people into the labour market during this period. There are still job vacancies in the labour market. Activity measures will certainly also enable existing jobs to be filled with people who are currently not participating in the labour market for one reason or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1063	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1064	Thank you. Good minister! Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs thinks there will be 10,000 to 15,000 jobs. As you said, employers are offered help, but employers themselves say that they do not have the motivation to hire these people. The study of the impact of this law, which was also carried out, pointed out as the first point that there are no suitable jobs for these people to take up their jobs. I remember that when Taavi Kõivas went to introduce this subject about a year ago, he said that this was really the biggest problem. Where do these tens of thousands of jobs come from, with difficult conditions and part-time jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1065	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at the jobs that may arise, we must also take into account the practical experience of another Europe. They make it very clear that if all parties are in a network and active position, if the unemployment fund, which is one of the most central institutions in implementing this reform, is active in a relationship with a potential job seeker and also with an employer, or partners, then these jobs are more or more likely to occur in a passive state. When we look at statistics, we have to admit that the skills of these people are largely unknown to us. We will get a lot more knowledge through this activity requirement and the contact that arises through the unemployment fund. Employers will also gain more knowledge about what jobs they could and could create for this workforce or what retraining and support these people would need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1066	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1067	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Urmas Kruuse! § 13 (3) of the draft regulation regulates the reduction of the capacity allowance if the person's income exceeds 60 times the current daily rate. If a person receives a gross salary of 640 euros during the year, but receives a bonus of 100 euros for Christmas, how much does the state punish him for this bonus? Would it be possible to find out the calculation that he will eventually have out of this EUR 100?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1068	Thank you. The good questioner is right that the aid will start to decrease from the moment the income exceeds EUR 640, but the last month will be taken into account. This means that if this limit has been exceeded last month, then next month the capacity allowance will be lower. What does this decrease mean? If we look at the range from EUR 640 to EUR 1005, the reduction is linked to a double coefficient. If the pay reaches the middle of this range, it can be said that the person's capacity to work allowance falls from EUR 180 to EUR 90.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1069	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1070	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The whole reform agenda is going through as a red thread that so far many things have been done wrong: although evaluation was wrong, there were no tools, no jobs, one or the other. Now it's going to be better and different. You claim that all those in need are secured by means of aid, be it vital or necessary for work. So far, the largest aid distribution centre, Invaru, has claimed that, from September to October, the aid has run out of money and people are not getting the crutch or the stick. What do you think was the reason why the money wasn't there? Or who was holding it? Who was responsible for the lack of aid money so far, which is claimed to be coming now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1071	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I will first answer the first part of your question, which will be done differently since the law was introduced. Here is a very important decision in principle. If the current system evaluates inability to work, then it will now assess the ability to work. This is a very fundamental and large difference. When we learn about a person's ability to work, it gives us the opportunity to provide a person with the right re-training and a customized job. When we talk about aids, it is now the Social Insurance Board that is responsible for sharing them. Additional resources will be allocated for this purpose. Welfare services, including the purchase of aid equipment, will cost more than EUR 14 million. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs has requested more than a million euros from the state budget. All of this together provides an opportunity for a greater number of people to receive these necessary tools, be they related to coping at home or at the workplace.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1072	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1073	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. This bill has been prepared by your predecessor, you have only been able to work on it for a few months. With a great praise, this bill has reached our tables. Unfortunately, disability organisations have said that they believe that there are a number of serious shortcomings here. You've met them too, probably many times. Do you admit that there is a problem with this bill? Have you identified them? Are you ready to change the bill, or are those to whom this law is intended misrepresenting because they have not understood it correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1074	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I agree with the opinion of those people who say, on any draft law, that the main objective of the draft must be clear and defined. This is also the case with this draft. However, one bill is ideal even before further discussions can certainly not be said. When I look at the meetings held in this short time in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the documented meetings of the cooperation groups, as well as the work of the working groups, I dare say that there have been an enormous number of meetings where this draft was essentially prepared. A number of important proposals have also come into the draft, I mean precisely those that have been done by representatives of the organisations of the disabled. For example, in the initial phase of the draft procedure, it was based on the fact that the capacity benefit could start to decrease from the very beginning of the minimum wage. This logic may have been linked to the fact that a large number of people who are fully able to work receive a minimum wage or have income at its borders. This might be logical in some ways, but referring to the Saar Poll study, it was decided to raise this limit, and now this reduction starts at EUR 640. We also took into account the following proposal from these organisations. In order to meet the activity requirement, it was also considered to be learning until the age of 30, but it goes against what we expect and hope to learn in the country, after all, it should be lifelong. So this proposal was also taken into account. I can say that a lot of important proposals have been taken into account, but certainly not all proposals have been taken into account, because opportunities must be taken into account. However, as a general rule, the law includes the social protection and protection and security of current incapacity pensioners for work for those entering the system. A basis must be established so that they do not have to worry or be stressed because their overall income is greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1075	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1076	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The representatives of the organisations of the disabled also had this question. The methodology for assessing the ability to work is not yet fully completed and has not been checked across different target groups. Why has the methodology for assessing performance not been sufficiently verified and at what time is it planned to complete its preparation and verification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1077	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, this methodology has been developed under professional scrutiny. We can say today that this has already been validated in a certain target group. There is currently an active dialogue with the unemployment fund, specialists and people affected by this change in order to further expand the test group. This means that this summer and autumn the target group will be expanded and this base will be expanded. This year's late autumn and winter should be completely controlled, but today we can say, given the opinion of the specialists of the University of Tartu that the methodology is correct. Now all we have to do is finish it, check it and create stability. I have said, and have said specialists, that this methodology is certainly at such a stage that reform can be launched. But, like labour market measures, the methodology, by its very nature, needs to be constantly monitored even after the law has been implemented. After all, the preparation of the draft has been based on the fact that, after the adoption of the law, there is still an implementation period, which will provide an opportunity to complete and refine the systems in order to launch the reform as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1078	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1079	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As a result of the labour reform, the unemployment fund will assess the working capacity of persons with disabilities. The case managers of the unemployment fund therefore need to be specialised, as it is unlikely that one employee will be a specialist in several disability and illness. Do and how you plan to organise or educate case managers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1080	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I can say that this conclusion is not quite correct. For one simple reason. In fact, professionals with medical education will assess their ability to work. People who have been trained and trained on the basis of this methodology describe, also taking into account the data obtained from the health information system and the person's completed form, the characteristics that give the case manager the knowledge of the work he could provide to one person or another. Case managers will not directly assess this functionality, it must be carried out by competent professionals. However, the unemployment fund employs some doctors, both as an advisory and as such a controlling link, to monitor how this methodology is applied, based on what conclusions are drawn from these same case managers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1081	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1082	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I think the ideology of this draft is wrong. I'm trying to explain why it's wrong. The problem is not that we do not know what capacity these people have. Doctors know all about it. Moreover, this reform is very expensive. I would argue that as long as this reform is not attractive to the entrepreneur, nothing will happen in Estonia. If we cannot make this attractive to the entrepreneur, then these people will be waiting for the job. I think that the main direction of this reform should be to create new jobs. We need entrepreneurs who find this reform attractive. These entrepreneurs themselves will find these people and secure jobs for them. This could be done even with tax incentives. Otherwise, this reform will not work. I think we can make sure of that in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1083	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If the good questioner meant that the state could and should create social jobs, then the experience of the rest of the world shows that this is not the way to succeed. Let's take the example of England, where factory complexes were created to get these people to work. Now these factories will be shut down. That's the first answer. Secondly, I note once again that the payment of social tax at the monthly rate is sufficiently attractive. The general sense of responsibility of these people at the workplace is attractive. The organisation of training, or retraining, is also attractive. After all, we cannot talk only about those people who are unemployed or are entering this system in the course of this reform. We also need to talk about those who are already disabled pensioners and are working, but at one point they may need to be retrained in this same job. In this case, the employer is also guaranteed to cover this cost. So I think there are a number of measures. The attractiveness of these people is also increasing because of the demographic situation in which people on the labour market are reduced by 40,000 - 50,000 - 50,000 - in a certain perspective. Thus, the attractiveness of all hands increases even further. I rather think that, although it may seem that these measures are limited, together with the activity requirements, they will certainly help to improve the situation. In my opinion, together, we should be very forceful to change the view that there are, as if, very many among these people who are not able to do anything. For this reason, I believe that the launch of this reform and the adoption of the draft as a law are crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1084	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1085	Thank you. Good minister! In any case, a person with partial employment capacity loses money. The current disability pension will be replaced by a much lower allowance, and you will need to keep showing yourself or calling, or how it is convenient for you to receive it. He's gonna be unemployed. If he does get a job, we know that since 1 500 euros, this support will disappear from the side at all. Pensioners have, by the way, been afraid for years that suddenly some government will come and take away the pension of an employed pensioner, leaving only pay. Aren't you afraid you're going to stick to the sign that you're applying it to people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1086	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The question was very long and contained many inaccuracies. I would be very concerned if I read this bill and knew that the number of people losing compared to the current pension is more than 50%. I can't confirm that. For example, people whose disability pension is linked to 100% incapacity for work have an increase in their income. If I add another 90%, these people's income will also increase. More than 20,000 people are actually going to receive higher capacity support, as these target groups currently have an average pension of €282 and € 256. While we are talking about the target group with a 40-60% disability rate, their average pension is currently clearly below EUR 180. So I can't agree with you on that. If the pension earned by the person who reached the pension age is higher than the disability allowance, he or she will continue to receive the higher pension. I don't think there's any point in sowing that fear. We should take out fear together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1087	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1088	Thank you, Minister. There's nothing you can do about your supercomparable speech. This is not particularly convincing when I recall what happened yesterday at noon in front of the Riigikogu. There were several hundred wheelchair people like this, I also have photographs taken, who, with tears in their eyes, asked members of the Riigikogu that, for God's sake, this law should not be allowed to be passed. So where is the conflict? Who do you believe, you or the people who get the law? I can't believe you, Minister, I can't!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1089	Honourable questioner! I too find it hard to believe that yesterday Toompea had several hundred wheelchairs because I was on Toompea and met these people. I guess I might be a little more modest. But I agree that we should talk more about this issue in order to take these fears down. Last night, too, when I met with representatives of organisations of the disabled, it turned out that communication may have been a little distracted, the information had not reached simple members. However, when we are talking about social protection, this reform has very much taken into account precisely that the restructuring of people's pensions into employment capacity benefits does not reduce their income.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1090	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1091	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still coming back to that EUR 640. EUR 640 is the amount that you have set; the person will retain the allowance. But let's take this example. I get 640 euros every month, 12 months in a row. I have my own limited company, so I'll pay myself. In exactly one year's time, when I present the annual report, I will take dividends, such as EUR 7680, i.e. I will get a double sum. How will the aid be taken into account in this case? I've only gotten more money in one month. Do I receive a full monthly allowance or do I count this allowance during the year? Or would it even be useful to remove the line?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1092	We're actually talking about man's gross income. We can take the example of a self-employed person. Self-employed persons are also entitled to work capacity benefit. Income is reduced if the person is also on account of unemployment. So when we talk about gross income, business income does not count when receiving support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1093	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1094	Thanks! In addition to Lääne-Virumaa, Põlvamaa is very nice for me. Are you aware, at least, of how many people in Põlva County are currently away from the labour market, but could, with some additional support, be able to get back into the labour market as a result of this reform? Are there any?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1095	In Põlva County, there are about 4,000 pensioners for incapacity for work and a little bit more. If we look at the fact that about half of the approximately 100,000 people with disabilities have been paid, then it can be said that the target group that needs these activity requirements immediately could be about 50% in Põlva County. But if we bring the overall unemployment rates aside, for example, in Tartu County the average unemployment rate is lower than the Estonian average and in Põlva County the average unemployment rate is slightly higher. It can therefore be assumed that this proportion in Põlva County is not quite valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1096	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! One of the starting points for the reform is that the number of people with disabilities has doubled over 15 years. Clearly, this has not happened because the Estonian people have become half sicker or because a war has passed through Estonia, but because if a person with partial work capacity does not find a job, he will formalise the trees and sit at home with it. I am a little sceptical about the expectation that private operators will be rushing massively to write statements so that they can reconstruct benefits and jobs so that people with partial employment capacity can be employed. But you are supposed to employ 500 people during the reform to deal with those people with partial employment capacity. Wouldn't it be a good step if the country were to employ 500 people with partial employment capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1098	Thank you, Reverend Asker! At least three I've named. First, the monthly social tax rate is paid. In fact, there is still wage support for the employment of persons with disabilities, retraining, further training, job adjustment support, investment in aids, housing restructuring, etc. They all create a prerequisite and a basis for creating more jobs. I mentioned another very important thing earlier. If we know more about the ability of these people, and with this reform, we will get this knowledge, then employers will also know which jobs and how much more they can create. There are currently around 35,000 unemployed in the labour market. These are people with certain skills. Our ladies and gentlemen from England also said that the most important thing is that not only are activity requirements imposed on jobseekers, but that employers must also be put in an active position. In any case, and always there are jobs in the labour market. There are also opportunities to channel those people who have not been looking for work and are currently disabled pensioners, with the support of activity requirements for job vacancies.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1099	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1100	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1101	Thank you, good questioner! One of the prerequisites for this reform was a study of more than 70% of businesses willing to recruit these people. Yeah, that's over 70%. When we talk about fears, one of the greatest fears is fear and prejudice, not in a very negative way, whether these people can be dealt with, whether a certain loss of working capacity allows them to participate in one or the other work process. To overcome this fear, we intend to use the experience that has already been gained by those entrepreneurs who have implemented these people by sending a signal to society that it does not have to be feared. We must try to train entrepreneurs and probably also business owners. Resources are also provided to take these fears down. Tomorrow, a workshop will be held with entrepreneurs, a round table. We are listening to reports from entrepreneurs who have already recruited these people. We intend to make a larger conference for the general public in the autumn precisely to reduce these fears. But the thing is, if the barrier is crossed, then it's going to be easier. These reforms and opinions are, in fact, that if the critical limit is exceeded in a positive way, then they would rather come with us in the future. But we are talking about social perception, labour shortages, people's desire to increase their income and quality of life. By putting all these issues together, a stimulus package has been set up, which should help ensure that this reform succeeds in the overall key.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1102	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1103	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! When Taavi Rõivas, as Minister for Social Affairs, first went on to present this idea, I had the question of whether the contribution of EUR 180 million to the investment of European Union funds was not too low and the reform target was too low. I know that if we do nothing, the amount paid for pensions will increase in a colossal way. But isn't this goal still too low? On the other hand, the question is that it was already in the previous government that it started to talk about the exit strategies of the various policies. I now see that the cost of the unemployment fund is now EUR 34 million, and it will increase to EUR 67 million by 2020. We have not made a decision as to whether, in future, these funds will be covered by the state budget or by unemployment insurance...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1104	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1105	How do you assess these exit strategies and how will these instruments be found in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1106	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Actually, the bill contains three options. One is that the exit strategy is entirely unemployment-based, the other is that the exit strategy is completely country-specific, and the third is that these costs are distributed. In order to adequately assess how expenditure could be spread over time, the reform should be operational and we should have at least three or four years of experience. After all, we have tried to estimate the maximum cost of the financial plan, which is included in the draft, by how many case managers will be hired, how much money will go into training or whatever. But the fact is that the most important part of the exit strategy is that we are not dealing with the current investment or expenditure in a five-year perspective, but in a tens of years perspective. We are based on the fact that, over these years, we are creating a base and a structure so that we can resolve these issues more sustainably than we have done so far. Therefore, it cannot only be assumed that in the last year of the reform these costs will start to decrease, including from the perspective of the unemployment fund. We must also take into account the fact that, in the phase of launching this reform up to 2020, we are creating a basis for the system to be sustainable, i.e. sustainable, without the European Union's resources, on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1107	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1108	Thank you. We have this test group in society, the same minors. When I think about the enormous difficulty of finding a job in Tallinn for a minor, I really have some doubts about how this system will work for people with special needs somewhere in the countryside. But I ask about § 12 (5) which talks about a student on academic leave and says that this student is not covered by the capacity allowance, except in one very narrow case. The explanatory memorandum does not open the reasons why a person on academic leave has been deprived of the capacity allowance. He's actually been away from college for a year, and he's supposed to be doing some kind of work by logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1109	Good questioner! Academic leave is still taken in order not to participate actively in studies, as a result of other factors. Another thing is that a person on academic leave probably cannot be an active user of labour market measures. That's why there's a one-to-one connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1110	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am convinced that a man must take responsibility for his words. You said, in answer to my first question, that if a person has a 5% capacity to work, we have to find a job for him. Describe who this person is, please! What is the diagnosis of this person, so generally? A 5% capacity for work probably means a wheelchair, some diseases are still present. What is the possible job you're going to find for him? If you cannot give a concrete example now, we are wasting time here talking about this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1112	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If we look at the preparation of the draft, we can say that there was no rush in Estonia. In Sweden, for example, this reform took place in one year. But I personally thought yesterday, and I think today and tomorrow too, whether I am a minister or some other office, that the importance of the content of the debate determines the speed of the draft procedure at some point. In my opinion, when the Riigikogu deals with one or the other draft, depending on the information it has, it can decide either way how long this period of proceedings may be. When it comes to the adoption of the law, it does not, in a sense, matter whether it takes place in the summer or in the autumn. The difference is only that, as the Chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee has said, it is indeed planned to work in cooperation with the Ministry in the summer to bring this draft before the honourable assembly in the autumn and to adopt it as a law, based on the needs of the people who are expecting this law. So I do agree that it would be reasonable for the honourable legislator to adopt this law this autumn and to set a final date for its implementation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1113	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we talk about the unemployment fund as an implementing unit, it is indeed the most important thing to employ people who would actually be working there every day. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, we are extremely modest in recruiting new officials in connection with the reform of working capacity. Yes, our officials are developing operational programmes, for example. Some project managers have also been employed, working with partners and institutions. This number of people, according to current knowledge, is negligible, but I can't tell you with human precision how many people are dealing with this subject. It is rather project-based work that is being done so that these applications can reach you, the legislator, and people can start applying for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1114	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1115	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I, too, thank you for your courageous step in taking and carrying out this important reform. You've heard a lot of questions and thoughts in this hall. Of course, today is the first reading of the draft. However, the impression that this is a bill that cannot be repaired has been made in the media and in the last few days during discussions in the corridors of the Riigikogu. I come back to the questions and thoughts that have been put to you here. Is it possible to make this draft between the first and second readings so that we can unanimously adopt it as a law? I believe we have a long and hard-working summer ahead of us, and I am optimistic. How do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1116	Thank you. As a minister, I am extremely happy that this draft came out of the ministry and the debate became very broad, which provides an opportunity to make consensual improvements. As a minister, I am, in the light of today's knowledge, aware that this draft should be adopted as a law and set a specific implementation time. This is for the sake of the people who expect these services.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1117	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1118	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read the table in the explanatory memorandum entitled 'Defined and projected average disability pensions for the years 2011 to 2019'. If the loss of working capacity is 100%, the pension is set at EUR 270. How do you think this person, who has completely lost his or her capacity for work and who obviously has his or her own costs in this regard, will be able to cope with the EUR 270? What is the purpose of such an average pension, or are there any criteria from which such an amount is taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1119	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I think you looked at the tables in the bill that described the current situation, based on how much a person has been entitled to a pension. You mentioned 100% loss of work capacity. The table showed how much these people are now receiving pensions. We have estimated that this target group will receive EUR 320 within the framework of the new law. Activity measures are not mandatory for these people, but if they are able to use them and implement them and come out of a protected working environment into an open labour market, their pension will also be maintained up to a certain level.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1120	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1121	Thank you, Reverend Asker! According to my information, the largest and most important organisations were involved in this work from the beginning. Some of their members have even been in contractual employment in order to develop this reform. The House of Disabled People, representing all the organisations of the disabled, was involved from day one. This is a very important sign. If the organisations have designated a national representation, what wider area could we use? So I can't really agree with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1122	Good manager! Good minister! When I look at the coordination circle and at someone who is like a bunch, there is a very interesting question. For a year and a half, a lot of work was done, but only then were the members of the Estonian Disabled People's Foundation invited to join the team. What may have caused people with disabilities to protest against this law and to be dissatisfied with it? We can see that they have not been taken very hard into the drafting of the law. How does it feel right now in this remote control when you feel the law isn't very good, but you have to protect it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1123	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1124	Thank you. Good minister! This draft has been reproached and, in my opinion, it is justified that it has not been sufficiently thought out or argued, contrary to, for example, the draft law on child protection. There's a lot of questioning here. Let me give you an example. At first, the cost of the assessment of working capacity was set at EUR 250, and now it has fallen to EUR 50. At the same time, the Social Insurance Board is currently carrying out an assessment of the disability at EUR 10 to 12. These changes on the run are so great. We heard in the Social Affairs Committee's public session that the methodology is not fully clear either. You can say, of course, that we in this Riigikogu are making this bill better, but in fact, the government has this competence. With all this in mind, please explain how these costs will change so quickly. Maybe you think it's even right if the government comes back here with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1125	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm coming to the schedule. When this bill came to the Riigikogu, the current Prime Minister said it was his child. He made it clear that, in his view, the procedure for this draft would go relatively quickly, also with regard to the spring substantive procedure and the adoption of the draft as a law before the summer. Later he said directly that he was a bit surprised by the statements made by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, that time should be taken off and that it should be done in a calm and prudent manner, involving all parties. Were you saying that the criticism is appropriate and the haste that was originally planned was pointless and time should be taken off? What do you think the timetable will be in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1126	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am absolutely convinced that these jobs can also be filled by people who are either current pensioners or future beneficiaries of disability benefits. But I agree with the head of the unemployment fund, Meelis Pope, that creating an artificial advantage may not produce the result that we really want in an ideal society as a whole. We want to make up for a certain loss of working capacity by various means and thereby create a level playing field for them so that they can compete for these jobs. However, we can also say that we still have employers who already have 10% of these people in the labour pool. Consequently, we need to give more recognition in society to employers who have already contributed, regardless of the extent to which they have been supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1127	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1128	Thank you. It seems to me that there are more questions than answers to this draft right now, but this is the time to process the bill for giving answers. The parties most affected by this bill and the future law have hesitated very much whether the promises that are made to them will somehow be kept. Today, actually yesterday, we have just discussed a draft which the Reform Party and the government led by the Social Democrats had presented to us for discussion. This bill violates one important promise made to pensioners. They are cheated, they want to take away their supplementary pension. These 200,000 people are asking what kind of scam will come next. How can those involved in this law be sure that this next deception will not come?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1129	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If I understood the question correctly, you referred to postponing the entry into force of a law, not repealing it. When we talk about this draft, the adoption of the law is a precondition for the implementation of this law, as well as the so-called support measures. I don't think we're ready to cheat on our people in this context. Reading the explanatory statement and the draft as a whole, I do not see the possibility of doing so, otherwise we would also deceive the European Union, which would recover this money from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1130	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1131	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I think that if this whole thing were to go back to as simple a mathematical operation as you just described, it would hardly be before you the bill we are discussing today. When we talk about people who have been identified as having an 80% loss of capacity for work, this does not mean that they do not have the skills to succeed in a particular profession or profession. But in order to assess it, there must be a different methodology than the one that exists today. Based on the methodology used by the Social Insurance Board, it is not possible to assess a person's ability to work to the extent we want. This methodology, which has been prepared, must also take into account the fact that if a person's working capacity in a field is at least 5% and he expresses his will and desire to work, then we must find a way to realise himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1132	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Maybe I'm asking you an uncomfortable question, but life is like this, not always like a rose. I will base myself on Ida-Viru County. According to the latest data, Ida-Virumaa has the lowest wage and Narva has the lowest wage in Ida-Virumaa. The number of unemployed in the region is also the highest in Estonia. I have such an uncomfortable question. If this programme is to be implemented in Ida-Virumaa, will there not be a psychological and social confrontation? Healthy people who have been standing in line on the job market for years find that from their hands...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1134	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1135	I'm asking you, how do you appreciate that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1136	Thank you, good questioner! I have to admit, I didn't understand the question a bit. Was it about the social conflict between working and non-working people? [[E. Efendiev interval call.]] Thank you, Honourable Asker, I now understand what you mean. I don't understand very well what this conflict could be about. If people are looking for a job and have not found a suitable job, then the vacancies that exist are not acceptable to them. I would argue that, if certain benefits are paid and certain loss of working capacity is compensated, there are people among the potential beneficiaries of the disability allowance who are certainly willing to receive certain jobs that are available on the labour market, but which are not accepted by the current job seekers who are not potential beneficiaries of the disability benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1137	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1138	Thank you, Minister. You mentioned in one previous reply that this draft will be followed up shortly after the draft on social welfare. But since you are defending the bill here as a minister, you should probably be able to specify what this social welfare side contains. Many incompetent people have said that it is difficult for them to get a job because they need special transport, but at present disabled transport is only available on four days a month. Will this social welfare side include support for getting to work and, if so, to what extent will it be supported, in what kilometer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1139	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In my previous reply, I touched on this subject a little bit. For local authorities, EUR 50 million has been earmarked for these additional social measures. For example, we have planned to support disability transport with EUR 12 million. We have also planned to support the adaptation of housing with EUR 12 million. We have taken into account the principle that if the job is at a reasonable distance and this reasonable distance is also acceptable to the job seeker, then they are prepared to compensate him for certain costs he has to make in order to work. There is no need to imagine that if a person has the opportunity to receive a salary of, for example, EUR 500, all this income would be transport costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1140	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. In favour of the idea of § 1 (1) of this bill, I am with two hands. I, too, feel that it is very important to support the work and employment of people with reduced capacity for work due to long-term health damage. However, unemployment is also among people who do not have long-term health problems, and youth unemployment is particularly high in both the rest of Europe and Estonia. I did not find any measures in this bill to create more jobs. In addition to helping your employer to invest in creating a job, can you tell me three or four measures that would actually contribute to this? What are these concrete measures? Why should the employer create jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1142	Thank you, good questioner! I absolutely agree with your idea that the public sector should set an example. This honorable hall has also undergone certain changes that will enable people with disabilities to work here. We have negotiated with employers that we are going to recognise and bring out companies that have employed, recognised and expelled such people. They can also include national institutions that employ these people. As I said, there have also been very few positive examples of what we have in the debate on this draft, even in the last month. This is a very important measure. At every level, role models play a very important role in changing attitudes, no matter what law is implemented or a change is desired.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! During the work capacity reform, the state and the public sector should lead by example in increasing the employment rate of people with disabilities. What concrete steps could the state, including your ministry, take to set an example for the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, On the basis of this bill, I ask you how you motivate employers to hire people with a part-time job capacity, who we have been talking about here. Or are you really hoping that our labour market will become small because a stronger part of the workforce has gone abroad to work and employers will have no choice but to hire people with partial employment capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1145	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I would not be so skeptical or critical of the hundreds of thousands of people who are still working in Estonia and who have not gone abroad. I wouldn't dare say this is the worst part of our workforce. Rather, those who go abroad will gain more experience and bring them here, and people's ability to cope in the labour market will actually improve. But when you ask about my faith, based on the experience of the rest of the world, we see one thing very clearly. These active measures, including investment grants for jobs, then call them investment grants for people, create the conditions that employers want to recruit these people. As I said in introducing the bill, I am in many places, be it in Jõhvi, be it in Pärnu, be it in Tartu, to have met a very large number of people who maybe belong to people who have received less attention, or simply are disabled pensioners. They are looking forward to increased funding for these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1146	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1147	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Aren't we trying to sort this out in half with this bill? When there were a large number of people who did not enter the labour market in their own time, the Minister of Social Affairs decided to solve these problems in such a way that people started writing out disability. This was, at least in the meantime, a rather serious problem in the region where I have been elected to the Riigikogu. We can see from statistics how, for example, in Põlva County, which the Pomerants have already mentioned once, there are far more people with disabilities than average. When I was walking around, I didn't get it. On the contrary, it is now, as if, once again, trying to help people into the labour market. But aren't those moves and all those triangulated people who are actually disabled and have problems gonna leave them in the shadows? Aren't we really gonna leave the problems unsolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1148	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I hope the good questioner didn't think that the minister wrote out the trees, so I guess those trees were real. I think you mean that experts in the field, or doctors, determined the degree of disability of people. These emotional assessments that Estonia is full of swindlers trying to identify a disability, because then they will be able to take advantage of social security, in my opinion, clearly apply to the minority. These people are many times less than anyone expected. But the main objective of this bill is to support the ability to work in the same way. This section, which concerns social work in the broader sense, deals with the draft which will reach the Riigikogu in the coming week or in the coming days. It is a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and other laws, which deals with this in particular on the part of social welfare. It is right and fair to assist people in their daily social performance by means of aids, rehabilitation, transport support and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1149	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your long and thorough answers. There are indeed many questions about this bill. I'm asking you from a different angle. You have taken an interest in the employment opportunities of minors. This draft concerns people of working age from the age of 16. Until now, employment restrictions have been imposed on persons aged 16 and 17 in Estonia who are completely healthy and fully able to work. Are the restrictions on working due to age now included in the compensation because it is just like a partial loss of working capacity due to age? How did you think that? That doesn't make any sense in this concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1151	Thank you, good questioner! After all, our primary task is for all 16-year-olds to either study or complete a certain cycle of their studies and go on with their studies. As regards the target group, who, due to their state of health, have partially lost their capacity to work, no one is forcing these people to take active labour market measures at the age of 16, but they will receive a pension or support on the basis of a medical decision if it is granted to them. But if they want to enter the labour market at some point, they have all these opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1152	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a somewhat mathematical question. Any phenomenon measured in figures can also be measured as a percentage. Inability to work is assessed as a percentage. Maximum incapacity for work is 100%. Can't say you can tell someone that his incapacity for work is 120%. The capacity to work is measurable in percentage terms, 100% and no more. So, if you estimated that the person's incapacity for work was 80% in January, why do you need to assess his or her ability to work? Simple mathematics says his ability to work will be 20%. Why change this system at all if the current assessment of incapacity for work is clear: what is the capacity for work? Why waste tens of millions of euros on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have stressed in several responses that when you prepared this bill, you met people with disabilities several times. My question is for you as a liberal. I assume you are. You understand very well the spirit life of entrepreneurs and you have certainly met entrepreneurs on this subject. Continuing on my previous question, I ask what the entrepreneurs have said to you once you have introduced this bill and talked about the motivation that I asked you about. What have they told you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1155	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When you read the bill, you noticed a few important aspects. When we talk about people with 100% loss of work capacity, they usually belong to a group where the loss of work capacity is 80 to 100 percent. This means that the Social Insurance Board provides them with rehabilitation and is able to obtain supported and protected jobs. A 5% capacity for work may mean that this person can work maybe one hour a week. An understanding of why we should make an effort to do so is very important. If you have met these people and seen them try to sing, congratulate someone, or hand over something, you should understand that they have a desire to be of any kind. It is very important for them to feel useful, and that is what we are working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1156	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1157	Good manager! Good minister! You have not taken into account such a simple wish that, sometimes with regard to the capacity allowance, an exception could be granted if the financial ceiling was exceeded. One example is when the holiday and salary money come together. Then you just have one official to write the answer that can't pay the allowance because the holiday allowance is paid on the same day as the salary. You might realize that salary and holiday allowance are paid at the same time, which is a double sum. But this month, you're just gonna lose your support. Why has the law not taken into account the exceptions that people with disabilities have asked to take into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1158	Thank you. This rule applies regardless of whether it is a disabled person or a disability pensioner. In fact, a person's specific cash flow is assessed. It is not considered merely a pension, but is treated as a disability benefit and is based on the income of a person in one month or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1159	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1160	Thank you. Your answer to my previous question was somewhat surprising. If the guarantee that people will not be deceived again during the implementation of this law is the European Union, then I am truly sorry that the 226000 pensioners from whom you are prepared today to take away a maternity pension for three years do not have a guarantee such as that of the European Union. But European values include respect for the elderly and respect for the promises made. Let me rephrase the question a little bit and ask this question: what is the guarantee that the reform will continue, and what is this method and the financial means to continue this reform after the end of the European Union's aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1161	Thank you, good questioner! I mentioned the European Union not as the first, but as the second, but, of course, it is not the least important guarantee. When we look at the cost-benefit table, we see several aspects there. Our aim is to bring people into the labour market. If jobs are created, income will also be generated and taxes will be paid. This means that the state will also generate tax revenue. If we compare it with the current situation, where we are very clearly in a passive role, there will also be savings from the disability pension system and we will be able to channel these funds towards providing services so that the system is sustainable. These are very important aspects for this reform to continue. It would not make sense for us to make investments for just five years. We may at some point enjoy a situation where we are given investment support, we have an obligation to keep this system running for five years, and after that we may change these functions, but we must be honest with people. For this reform to succeed, it is a strategic issue for our country; it is a question of its existence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1162	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1163	Thank you very much. Good minister! You've got a really big nut on you. I don't envy you for having to carry out a work capacity reform. Hat off, you've acquired the right rhetoric in a very short time! After all, the objectives of this reform are very noble and good; I have already fully agreed with them and I still agree with them. This is about the practical side. Since you answer here as a politician, I am asking a political question. Helmen Kütt, who is responsible for the entire welfare side of your ministry, has said very clearly, both in the government and publicly, that he will not support this reform in this form, because there are very large and important parts missing. I know, and it is also known to the public, that this debate was very passionate and fundamental in the government. Can you tell us what the differences were in government and what the debate was like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1164	Thank you, good questioner! If you start with the first part of the question, thank you for the compliment! You could say a squirrel doesn't know a nut he can't bite. But if you go on from here, a good colleague, Helmen Kütt, signed with me the bill that went out of the ministry. This means that the text you are reading today is coordinated with an honourable colleague. Therefore, I cannot agree with your opinion that Helmen Kütt is somehow opposed to this bill. But perhaps it was a small mistake that we could not bring the same draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Employment Services and Benefits Act and other laws to the government meeting on the same day. Now it has passed through the government and comes to Riigikogu proceedings. If you look at the time these laws are implemented, you will see that the deadlines are the same, that is, these laws must be adopted in principle in parallel. This draft relates to the so-called "social welfare" measures which fully or partially support the implementation of the labour capacity reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1165	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1166	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On the practical side, we know that the unemployment fund needs to attract quite a large number of workers, but the work capacity reform must also be regulated and monitored, and not for one year. How big is this team that's gonna regulate and control it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1167	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Indeed, at some point, the maximum cost of the evaluation was 250 euros. After all, the explanation given by the Head of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, Meelis Popel, was linked to the fact that, on the basis of preliminary estimates, expert doctors considered the maximum amount to be EUR 150 and that the unemployment fund included all taxes, plus VAT, on the basis of the fact that he bought the service and so on. These estimates were based on the current health care fund's price list and the cost of the specialist's initial visit, together with the nurse's fee as well as the so-called space cost. If it is a paper evaluation, the cost is about EUR 50 and, if it is a visit assessment, EUR 90. In the case of heavier cases requiring additional specialist visits, there is about one third of these heavier cases, the cost may rise to EUR 150. On this basis, these calculations have been made, but the final price will be established during the procurement. However, I do not see any assumption that this price could be two or three times higher than the current price.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1168	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I congratulate you for your introduction. You've endured well here. In today's Estonian Express, I read that the Reform Party considers your appointment to be a major failure. I think you're the Reform Party yourself. However, I think that this bill could be clarified on the issue of jobs. We spend a lot of money helping thousands, hopefully tens of thousands of people back into the labour market. People currently on the labour market continue to face a structural problem due to the gap in the labour market, as their skills no longer meet the requirements. What is the answer, this programme, this plan, these measures? You talk about it all the time, quite abstractly. What would help us to build faith that we can create such jobs in the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1170	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When you start with the introduction to your question, you probably referred to a fictional text that appeared in the Estonian Express. I have to admit, everything that was described there was even less plausible than the fairy tales I read to the children at night. But if we go further, there are several aspects that make us believe that we can create these jobs. As your minister, you always defended investment and export refunds so that our companies would be competitive and be able to create jobs and bring foreign investments to Estonia. If we look at the content of this reform and ask how it is possible, if there is a gap in the labour market, there are two aspects. We want to reduce the entry costs for these people into the labour market by supporting entrepreneurs in creating jobs. After all, there are a number of measures: payment of social security contributions at monthly rates, support for the readjustment of the workplace, wage support for the disabled for a certain period of time. But when we look at the incomes of these people, we see that the highest income range is slightly below EUR 300. This means that in order to improve the quality of life of several tens of thousands of people with a service of between €0.10,00 or €100256, it would also be sufficient, for example, to earn €500 in the initial phase. So all of this creates these assumptions and possibilities. If we did not have faith in it, we would certainly not do so. But the legislator has set this target over two years ago. This is a very strong sign that both the government and the Riigikogu consider this reform to be very important and believe in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1171	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1172	Thank you. Dear Minister, It's interesting to hear what you're saying. The last point we discussed was the Child Protection Act. I don't know if you're aware, but people in child welfare who are highly educated and trained professionals get paid in local governments for the sums you mentioned, 500 euros and even a little less. But my question is for you as a great practitioner. If, for example, your friends in Tammelinna in Tartu want to hire a disabled person as a janitor, how can the law help them so that they can hire this disabled janitor who has partial working capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1173	Thank you. There are several possibilities. The first option is that the unemployment fund brings together the person who wants to work and knowing that a houseman is needed in Tammelinna. Another possibility is that this potential janitor has been retired for 5 to 10 years and is not active at all. Then it is high time that the local social welfare worker, who knows his/her area best, has several areas in Tartu, goes to this person and says that it is now time to end his/her passive state and find a way to increase his/her income. He will be actively communicating with the unemployment fund himself. These are practical examples of what is happening every day. As a practitioner, I can assure you that we have also employed people who have been long-term unemployed at Tammelinna Stadium. Although, true, we did not know at the time whether it was a disability pension business or just an unemployed person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1174	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1175	Thank you, manager. Good minister! I'm glad you said you had faith when you answered Juhan Parts. Even if the Minister didn't have faith in the bill, we'd be in a pretty bad situation. But I'll go on from here. When we were presented with this draft in the group, I realised that there were no real new measures offered to employers here. Have you discussed that perhaps separate measures should also be added to employers so that new jobs will definitely come? It would strengthen your faith even more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1176	Thank you. In fact, when we look at the unemployment fund, completely new measures are protected and supported work. Secondly, the number of hours of support person per year has been increased to 1000 hours. This means that if a sponsor needs to support a person in the workplace, this option is there. Re-training and training opportunities have been broadened to reflect the needs of those who belong to this target group. So these measures have come up and they are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1177	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1178	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. There is no point in denying that one of the aims of the reform is to reduce social spending. These costs are now partly transferred to the unemployment fund. Has it been negotiated with representatives of employers and employees, and how do they feel about it? The primary purpose of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is not to cover these expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1179	Thank you, Reverend Asker! The Unemployment Insurance Board has approved this reform programme. This means that its budget also takes into account the possible small additional costs if we look at a long period. After all, the Unemployment Insurance Fund will receive some of the EUR 180 million we hope to receive from the European Union. Secondly, as regards the payment of disability pensions, this money will pay disability benefits. In fact, there's no direct cost to the unemployment fund. It is true that the unemployment fund compensates for its contribution to the European Union funds that we intend to implement. But it is also clear that an exit strategy has been taken into account since 2020. No one can say it's on the back of the whole unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1180	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1181	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, This bill has been actively discussed in Estonian society by organisations, employees and also political parties. One of the points of discussion has been how to reduce the burden of disease. One of the options for this is, in many view, the cost of health for workers and families to be paid by businesses without a special preferential tax. In the case of specific and justified restrictions, this would make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1182	Thank you, good questioner! When we look at the experience of the rest of the world, certain financial contributions, as I say, have generally not reduced the increase in health risks. Rather, health risks have been reduced by changes in the general social environment, in average living and income, and in the reduction of possible additional health risks arising from the working environment. If you are thinking of non-payment of special preferential taxes, for example, in support of sporty or active attitudes to life, it is now the general strategy of the state and local authorities to offer more opportunity to behave healthily in public spaces as well. For this purpose, health trails, light traffic routes, sports grounds, sites will be established. It creates the ground to be able to move regardless of a person's income. In some ways, the urban environment is in a more critical state in its design and structure when we look at the city and some smaller town plans. But in the short time I've been a minister, I've been studying this subject. For example, if people were to receive some financial compensation for not smoking or perhaps using so much medical services, the general key does not support an improvement in the situation. But it is very positive that employers realise that their entire living environment is their advantage. One measure here is also the attitude towards healthy behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1183	Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1184	Thanks! You and your colleague, Leng, have a completely different understanding of how many wheelchairs there were in Toompea yesterday. But whether a person has a wheelchair or does not have a wheelchair does not necessarily have to do with lack of work ability, there may be other problems. But you met these people. What else do you think are the differences that I'm sure would like to dive so that people in wheelchairs or, more generally, people who have problems getting into the labour market would be more pleased with you than they are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1185	Thank you, Reverend Asker! One important issue that has almost always been highlighted relates to possible disability support. This problem is greater in sparsely populated areas; the urban environment is in better condition. Yes, we must admit that this is the case even in the city where we are today. Moreover, there is also a problem in counties that, for example, low-bottom buses are not a'minute-to-minute' phenomenon, but a person must follow the schedule. Yes, in Tartu we managed to put in the terms of the procurement that all buses that drive in the city must be at a low bottom. Addressing this problem is partly linked to the need for local authorities and rural governments to find this possibility when organising their procurements. When I have met people, the question has been that if the bus stop is one or two kilometres from the farm, then the support for disabled transport or personal transport will probably be the first. The role of public transport there is rather secondary, but it certainly has its influence. This means that if a person can only return to work in the morning and return home at night, it must be difficult for him or her to work part - time, or half a day. Does he take a public transport in the morning, but he comes back with a supported transport? It has to be resolved on a case-by-case basis, or personally. The role of the case manager is no longer to sit in the unemployment fund and fill out the paperwork, but must actively communicate with both the social welfare worker and the employer of the municipality until he goes with the person in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1186	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1187	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In your previous reply to me, you said if I understood you correctly that the income of people with disabilities is increasing. I have here a letter from the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People complaining that the bill punishes working disabled people. So, what's the deal? Is there anything wrong here, not to mention it? Perhaps a more serious problem is that the draft does not bring more opportunities for people with disabilities to work, but does increase the administrative burden. In my opinion, the issue of jobs is particularly important. If companies are not more motivated to employ disabled people than they are today, where will these jobs come from? We can set goals, but this law does not show the way to fulfill them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1188	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1189	Thank you, good questioner! In order for a person to receive a disability allowance, he or she needs to be assessed. That's what experts do. As a result, it is generally possible to determine whether he is partially or not in a position to work. Let me give you an example. When a person has partial work ability, it may mean that his or her psyche is normal, his or her brain is functioning normally, and he or she is able to learn, but he or she may not be able to cope with any other performance associated with either physical activity or specific knowledge. Perhaps learning ability and partial working ability do not contradict each other. If a person really is studying for 30 years, after all, we have lifelong learning, that means that he or she will not improve his or her quality of life by studying. Its capacity to work benefits will remain the same until the moment it is taken away, based on the fact that it has improved its state of health. His condition may remain the same or deteriorate, even so much that he basically becomes completely incapacitated. It's a place of choice. In essence, the activity requirement means that a person is not in a passive position as a beneficiary of a grant or pension in the present sense. If a person is currently receiving a pension, he or she usually has no obligation, may work and may not work. But now it's gonna change, and it's not gonna be like that anymore. When a person learns, he or she is definitely better socially connected to society, or some of his or her social quality indicators are better. But I don't really believe in the honorable questioner that people can study for 40 years without going to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1190	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the general provisions of the draft and § 2 'Encouraged persons'. It says here that persons who are entitled to an assessment of their capacity to work and to a disability allowance are people from the age of 16 to retirement age. Paragraph 3 provides for certain exceptions in which it is possible to assess the working capacity of younger or old-age workers. In Estonia, old-age pensioners are also known to be able to work. For what reason is this time limit provided for in paragraph 1? In the explanatory memorandum, I read about paragraph 3, which describes the exceptions that arise from specific laws. But perhaps you will explain, which is why this right is provided for until the age of retirement and why shouldn't pensioners also have this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1192	Thank you, Reverend Asker! This work capacity reform, in its objective content as a whole, concerns the working age population. I also said before about the disability allowance that if a person reaches retirement age and his or her pension is higher than the disability allowance, he or she will receive his or her pension. Older people also have additional retraining opportunities. Let us look at the reform as a whole and at the possible measures of the European Union. We have also proposed measures with a common denominator of 55+. If we look at the labour market, we can't hide our heads in the sand. The ability of people approaching retirement age to participate in the labour market may also be reduced for one reason or another, without re-training or activity requirements, and may fall out of the labour market. At the age of 59, these people are going out of the labour market. All the work hands are necessary, but we did not think that we should impose activity requirements beyond the so-called retirement age.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1193	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1194	Thank you, Minister. It is late, but I hope very much that I will still have a substantive answer to my question. You said earlier that you were happy with the proposal made at the demonstration of the disabled to withdraw the draft, as it shows the maturity of democracy in our society. With regard to the opposition of the Socialists to the speedy processing of this draft, you said that you would also welcome it, because it shows that Parliament is not a rubber stamp. But my question was what are the substantive reproaches, disagreements or disadvantages that disabled people and the Social Democrats have put forward, why they have reacted in this way. There is nothing in the explanatory memorandum about this. I ask that you describe the main reproaches!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1195	Thank you, good questioner! I don't remember being happy that it was proposed to withdraw the bill. I was happy that it was possible for our country to freely exercise its will and demonstrate itself and do not have to fear repressive measures. That was the content of my statement. Let us look at these suggestions. Indeed, some of them have been taken into account and, in my opinion, very important proposals, such as the proposal on which income limits will be reduced. One proposal concerned learning activity from the age of 30 onwards. But let us take concretely the suggestions that have been sent to us by our own carers in their letter. Regardless of how intensively I read these proposals, I must admit that some of them have already been taken into account or have been misinformed by the proposers. For example, it has been criticised that the system will increase the burden on the payers of unemployment insurance contributions after the end of the euro payments. I said earlier that the decision as to how much burden the unemployment fund could have to bear must be made before 2020, based on what experience has been gained. We have the principle of solidarity at the unemployment fund. Right now, I'm working and paying insurance premiums, and if I don't work tomorrow, I'm getting a refund. It's exactly the same with these people. On what basis do we say that these people are not entitled to unemployment benefits? Is it because they have not had a previous chance to enter the labour market because of the loss of working capacity? Is that why we're depriving them of this support? I don't accept it, I can't accept it. Not all the proposals made are acceptable. In essence, not all proposals can be accepted, because we are bound by various options and responsibilities. But I'm happy that there's a very lively debate and it doesn't go quietly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1196	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1197	I said earlier that almost half of these people are not working, and many tens of thousands of people have an income of less than 250 euros. It is clear that these measures will increase the prospective income of these people on the basis of whether they did not earn at all before or how much they earned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen have taken an interest in the new Employment Allowance Act, as well as in the reform of working capacity as a whole. What I am asking is whether the current social system allows a person with permanent incapacity for work to receive active and systemic support in order to find some form of expression in society, whether it is a job, an activity or an opportunity to study. Can the social system help him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1199	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1200	In this Chamber, a few speeches have spoken about the notion that this reform of working capacity may be a bit hasty and hasty and brought to the Riigikogu. Would you describe the process of preparing the reform at the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1201	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In fact, we support e-state. One of the proposals made by disabled people's organisations concerning activity requirements was also on this subject. If at the beginning there was an idea that only physical communication was required, then now the bill states that you can also communicate by telephone or via the portal. Another thing is when we talk about paying out the disability allowance through the local government. The legislator obviously means that if the local authority is a guardian institution, it must be convinced of the will of that person. I will not answer your question, perhaps exactly as you imagined. However, as far as possible additional proposals are concerned in the long term, it is in any case the intention of the state to extend different e-solutions in any form of provision of services or communication with citizens. May I clarify the answer to Mr Vaher's question so that there is no wrong opinion? I was talking about a year's salary, not 20. I'm sorry I didn't mark it right!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1202	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1203	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The bill states that a learner with partial employment capacity is guaranteed an income for the period of study. The condition of working or looking for a job is not added here, as learning is considered to be an active activity. It follows from the principle that education and qualifications are conducive to finding work. But those people who learn don't have time to work. Are those people who study somewhere basically all part-time work capacity because they just don't have the time to work? If so, will they also be guaranteed this income?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1204	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Of course, we cannot treat disability support as pure income, but we must treat it as support so that a person can work. If a person undergoes an assessment and shows that he or she meets these criteria, these measures will certainly apply to him or her. This means that if he is studying at the same time, he does not have to deal with further things to prove his activity. But a lot of students are still working, so I don't see any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1205	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1206	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come back to the subject raised by Helir-Valdor Seeder. The issue was mainly related to the role of the Social Democrats during the procedure for this draft. You did not actually answer that part of the question. I will clarify this question by looking at what has been said by the Socialist Heljo Pikhof, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. He said very clearly a few days ago that this bill cannot go forward in haste, because there are a number of points that need to be changed. He said that many amendments would most likely come. In their group, too, they have discussed that amendments will certainly be tabled, but it has not yet been specified which proposals will come. Are the Social Democrats at the moment giving you a hard time, or are you not in a coalition of communication? What is so interesting that you are speaking a little different language right now, the Reform Party versus the Social Democrats? Would you mind commenting in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1207	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I apologize to the last questioner when I didn't answer anything! When we talk about the Ministry of Social Affairs that this bill went to government with two ministerial signatures and the implementation dates were exactly the same, it is clear that there were no differences of opinion. If any Riigikogu committee in the course of the procedure considers that it is necessary to complete the draft, it is, in my opinion, extremely positive. In my opinion, the current Riigikogu has signalled that it is not going to be a rubber stamp. I think it's double positive. As a minister, I only welcome this. If we look at the proposals that have arrived, a large number of them will not always indicate that all these proposals are precisely and specifically made in the light of this draft. We will see during the debate that the part of the work capacity reform addressed by this draft, which is part of the whole reform, has also been the subject of proposals that do not directly enable problems to be solved through this specific measure, but are complementary or separate issues. As the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has promised, and our ministry has said, we intend to work very closely together to work through all these proposals, then, according to the Commission's decision, come to this Chamber and continue the procedure until the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1208	Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1209	Thank you. I have two questions on one question. Firstly, the unemployment fund, which is an institution independent of the government, receives, in addition to providing classical labour market services and dealing with potential labour market entrants, now indisputably with a large number of social system tasks. This has been criticised by employers either with a louder or a quieter voice. Is it possible to find a reasonable solution in future discussions so that we do not essentially turn the unemployment fund into a ministry or a ministry sub-office? That's one question. Secondly, the additional question is about the 600 additional jobs in the unemployment fund system. Many experts, I can name Professor Lauristini, whose opinion we respect on this issue, have said that we do not have people with such qualifications. Has the Ministry of Social Affairs placed a state order?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1210	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I am extremely happy that Estonia is a democratic state and that every person and institution can express their will in any way, whether at a demonstration, at a pictique or in any other way. I have sensed during this two and a half months that so-called statistical cooperation and coordination has been quite impressive, but I have to admit, as I did a few hours ago, that I do not always think that communication within these organisations is what is necessary. Some questions have perhaps been raised a little emotionally and hysterically. But I commend those people who express their opinion with a loud voice. This actually adds content to the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1211	Why do you not support the e-state and do not accept digital signature here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1212	Thank you, Reverend Asker! When we talk about the current system, certainly, compared to the new system, these opportunities are smaller and more passive. The new system will expand these opportunities through activity requirements, changing society's attitude and offering a number of support mechanisms. At present, without additional resources, we cannot offer as many activity measures, social welfare measures or aids; we cannot support the remodelling of jobs and homes to the extent that it is needed. So definitely, yes, the new system supports it more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1213	Thank you. After all, preparation for this process started with the audit of the National Audit Office, where already in 2010 it was very clearly pointed out that the system is unsustainable, these people are excluded from society, but they need to be actively dealt with and the payment of support must be linked to activity requirements and income, which means that support must be reduced as income increases. I also have an overview of what has been done in the various working groups in the last half of the year, and there are several pages in A4 format. We can start with the OECD recommendations and stop setting up working groups, etc., under the leadership of the European institutions. If I look statistically, I can say that this process has been extremely versatile. But I would like to emphasise once again that it is probably necessary to communicate and eliminate the possible fears that have arisen in society so that those people who are looking forward to this reform can taste its fruits.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1214	Thank you. There are no further questions for the originator's waitress. The rapporteur of the Commission is Jüri Jaanson, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The new day is now, and it is time to introduce the activities of the Social Affairs Committee. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Employment Capacity Allowance Act at five regular sessions and also at another extraordinary session. Two of these five ordinary sittings were open to the public, while the other discussions were common. The first meeting was held on 3 June. The Social Affairs Committee heard about the impact of Saar Poll's study on the Employment Capacity Allowance Act. We were briefed on the survey and highlighted a number of important things. It was stressed that cooperation with employers is essential in the implementation of the labour capacity reform and that attention should be paid to the provision of jobs away from the centres. It was proposed to identify the capacity of local authorities to create jobs, etc. The members of the Social Committee listened to the summary, asked questions and took note of the results of the study. The next meeting, which took place on 9 June, prepared the first reading of the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act. There were the Minister and the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs who introduced us to this draft. The Minister made a thorough review of the draft law. He pointed out that the draft would allow for the improvement of people's working environment and other important things that are important for employers as well as for people who have lost their ability to work. The Minister also stressed that the Employment Capacity Allowance Act aims to employ 15000 persons with partial working capacity over the next few years and that we have EUR 180 million of ESF money to implement the reform. According to the Minister, he supports sending the draft to first reading. At the same meeting, the Minister and the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also asked questions. The most important ones have already sounded in this hall. For example, there was one question about the recruitment of 500 officials to the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, to which the answer was that in fact officials are not recruited, but case managers, specialists, accountants, because the handling of cases, as well as the use of European Social Fund funds, is more labour intensive than the normal use of state budget resources. There were other important questions, but most of them were also submitted to the Minister in this Chamber today, so I will not go over them. The next meeting was held on 10 June. It was a public hearing held in the conference room. The purpose of this meeting was to hear the representatives of the target groups of the Employment Capacity Support Act, as well as the representatives of the institutions involved in the implementation of this reform. Representatives of the unemployment fund, Lecturer of the Social Labour Institute of TLU, representatives of the Confederation of Employers, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, participated in the meeting. The representatives of the target groups were representatives of the Deaf Association, the Development Centre Avitus, the Careers' Association, the Association of Persons with reduced mobility, the Union of the blind and the Deaf Youth Organisation, as well as, of course, representatives of the Chamber of People with Disabilities. The views of all participants on the draft and their recommendations were heard at this meeting. The House of People with Disabilities made very clear proposals for this session, which highlighted some of the weaknesses of the draft and put forward proposals that the Committee on Social Affairs can discuss in its future work. On 12 June, another meeting took place in which procedural decisions were taken. The fifth meeting was on 16 June, Monday. It was once again a public session in the conference room, where the views of the target groups, the unemployment fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the representatives of the Social Insurance Board on the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, were once again heard. An extraordinary meeting was held today, where the Committee on Social Affairs specified the deadline for tabling amendments and set out its summer work schedule. Finally, the procedural decisions adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs on the draft law on capacity benefit for work. The first proposal was to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by 17 June (it was yesterday or now the day before yesterday, the two days have passed). It was proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 11 August and that I be appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1216	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Margus Tsahkna Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1217	Thank you. Requesting more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1218	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1219	Dear Chairman, Dear coworkers and good friends on the balcony, who may not be interested in the reform of working capacity, even though the subject is very important! Work capacity reform has been prepared for a long time. This is a major and fundamental reform with a very noble aim. I think that there is no political party or organisation of people with special needs doubting this objective. The aim is to help people with special needs according to their abilities and opportunities in the labour market. This objective is noble and must be achieved. At the same time, when we look at the opposition of the organisations of people with disabilities, people with special needs, when we see that employers' organisations are also very sceptical and, six months ago, the trade unions who have recently fallen a little bit quieter spoke very sceptically about this draft, it can be said that this 360 million euros, or the reform that is going to cost nearly six billion kroons in old Estonian money, is poorly prepared. If opposition is so great, we cannot be satisfied with the explanation that everyone, except the government, has misunderstood the matter. It's all got its back bottom. The former Minister of Social Affairs, who has become Prime Minister, has publicly stated that this reform is his child and must be carried out. At the same time, there is at least one minister in the government, Helmen Kütt, Minister of Social Affairs, who is directly responsible for organising the daily lives of people with disabilities, very clearly and openly, and also said that this reform cannot be implemented in this form. What is missing in this reform? It is precisely half, or even more, what is missing that will help people with disabilities into the labour market. We are talking about social welfare services, which are largely provided by municipalities. We're talking about a rehabilitation system that's out of date. We are talking about the organization of a system of aids that does not meet today's requirements. We are also talking about an educational system for people with disabilities that is not up to date. I do not agree with the Minister's view that we cannot describe and solve all the social problems that people with special needs have to face. Unfortunately, or fortunately, it is precisely during the implementation of the labour capacity reform that we must also talk about all other problems, because it is only by implementing the labour capacity reform that those people with the same special needs will not actually be able to enter the labour market. It is therefore obvious that this reform has been prepared poorly. I would not say that this has been done in haste because it has been prepared for at least two years. It is not true that the rhetoric is that how wonderful we have democracy, the government has given the labour force reform to the Riigikogu to discuss, and it will be done in the Riigikogu. This competence, which can actually prepare a complex solution, is within the government. It is the task of the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with other ministries, to prepare this reform. Currently, the Riigikogu has come with a crude and unthinkable solution, which is actually not discussed with the organisations of people with special needs and where their proposals have not been taken into account. It is not possible to patch up this draft with a few proposals; there is just half of the work missing. The Riigikogu is not such a place as the Toots School that half the work is good. People with special needs need need a holistic solution, because they are the ones who are not sitting here today in this warm room, but their lives will be arranged in the future. There are also other issues related to long-term commitments. As I said, this reform will cost a total of EUR 360 million. Meelis Paavel, Head of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, has also stated in the Commission that the current current expenditure of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, which is EUR 34 million per year, will rise to EUR 67 million by 2020. The Minister also acknowledged that there is not yet a solution to what kind of money will be used to cover these expenditures in 2020, when Europe's support ends. These options are set out in the explanatory memorandum: state budget expenditure, unemployment fund expenditure or combined costs. But it is, in fact, a very big commitment to the state, and yet there is no answer to that question. One important group of people excluded from this employment programme is very directly involved with people with disabilities. Those are the caretakers. In fact, the government should withdraw this bill and think about how to bring into the labour market healthy people who are excluded from the labour market because they are forced to stay at home and care for their loved ones due to a lack of care services. It's the easiest way to get them there. Improving their situation could be part of the employment reform. But one thing is clear: more than 500 new jobs will be created in the unemployment fund. This is perhaps the only clear number of jobs the government can create for this EUR 360 million. Unfortunately, these jobs are not for people with special needs, but they are for officials, no matter what we call them. It is a pity that we miss the opportunity to complete a comprehensive reform with which we would also include social welfare services. We now come to political decisions. I want to turn to the Social Democrats. If you don't trust your minister, I don't know who you trust. If you don't support him, I have a question why you have such a minister in the government. Minister Helmen Kütt is perhaps the most competent person today to speak in this area. His views are even perhaps better known in the group than in the government and in our committee. I urge you very seriously, before the vote that comes today, to consider whether you trust and support your minister or not. I know that you have had very serious discussions on this subject. Finally, I would like to say that the government should actually withdraw this draft itself and come here with a peacefully thought-out and disability-coordinated proposal. That is why the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union is proposing to reject the draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act 678. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1220	Please now to the State School Chair of the Estonian Central Party... Yes, Kaia Iva, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1221	Thank you. At today's session, which began yesterday, we saw that the Minister of the Government of the Republic was able to withdraw the draft very quickly. Perhaps the Bureau has already received a proposal from the responsible minister of the Government of the Republic to withdraw this draft from the proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1222	Thank you. I was thinking about that myself, but this proposal has not yet been received by the Bureau. I would now like to ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Marika Tuus-Lauli! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1223	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Let it be said at the outset that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not support the repressive reform of the Reform Party and of the Social Democrats, while the resounding reform of the working capacity, which has been largely between the cover during the previous government, could lead to the loss of several dozens of thousands of disabled people in the future, as well as their carers, guardians, family members and close relatives. Although the reform should be won primarily by people with disabilities, the draft shows that the biggest winner here is the enormously growing state apparatus, the state itself. The Unemployment Insurance Fund employs hundreds and hundreds of new officials and irresponsibly starts to destroy the reserves accumulated in the unemployment fund. In addition, repeated expert assessments of the capacity to perform work will be commissioned for large amounts. How much money will be spent on all this, no minister or official, draft authors or anyone else has ever been able to say in public sessions. Euro money must be spent, but no one can answer what happens when it ends. The press has argued that the total reform, including indirect costs, will cost around EUR 400 million, of which EUR 180 million will come from European funds and several dozen million from unemployment funds, plus social security funds. But it's probably not enough either. We see that most of the money that should be won by people with ill health is being spent on administration and expansion of the system. After the end of the euro payments, the new system, as has already been mentioned here, would need EUR 60.70 million per year. Where it's taken from, nobody knows today. The questions remain, with the government's permission to take huge sums of money from the unemployment fund, and why money from the social security system, which has been collected for years by employers and workers and is intended for the unemployed. Identifying work ability is clearly a social task for the country. The most important questions to be asked about the draft are the ones where these jobs are still created and why the employer should hire half the person with the capacity to work if the measures so far have not worked and the order of the healthy unemployed is at the door. Why would he employ people with mental disorders, for example, who make up nearly half of the disabled who are not in employment? The head of the social and market research company Saar Poll, who appeared before the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, first pointed out in the impact analysis that the new system does not provide adequate jobs for people who have lost their ability to work. Neither does the motivation of employers to recruit people with disabilities increase. The state should set an example here and fill the jobs of officials created in the unemployment fund with disabled people. We'll see! The employer's representative also said at the Commission meeting that he does not currently see the willingness of employers to create jobs with complex conditions and that there is a clear need for public financial support, because self-regulation is not working here. However, if a disabled person finally finds a job, going to work may not pay off. The reform still does not provide a comprehensive response on how a person with reduced mobility living in a country can move from home. We should, of course, start with support services, social benefits, which have been mentioned here: transport services, personal helper, supporter, aides. There is certainly a need for support for working. The draft on social benefits was also in the Commission yesterday, but there were a lot of questions about it. You can see that there is no complete picture. Areas are kept separate, people who are able to work are separate, children and pensioners are separate. These people will be run between the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board. Once again, local authorities are looked at. But we know they have enough to do, but there's no money. The Minister also spoke here about some mysterious EUR 50 million that is being given to the municipalities, but this, I understand, is still a one-off amount. I'm afraid that's not gonna help the local authorities solve this problem. At present, active people with disabilities have acquired essential social services at their own expense, mainly through disability pensions. Now, however, this pension is replaced by a lower disability allowance, which begins to decline rapidly in normal service until it disappears altogether. We certainly do not support that. The unemployment fund will receive a grant of 180 euros per month for some of the unemployed. It's less than a disability pension. Besides, part-time wages are very low. Does it make sense to earn a salary to work? So the motivation is shrinking. After all, the capacity allowance is also gradually decreasing, starting with a salary of EUR 640. The House of Disabled people has also said that this amount is too small, it should still be the average salary in Estonia. At the same time, we know that starting with the EUR 1 500 gross wage, the allowance will disappear. There is no reliable methodology for the assessment of working capacity. We've heard some things, but we've realized that the methodology hasn't been tested enough. For example, a person with mental illness cannot use the same methods as a person with reduced mobility. There are, of course, many aspects here. The subject of education can also be mentioned here. The disabled stressed the importance of educating these people so that they did not just have to do simple work, such as getting used to. Of course rehabilitation is important. It would take social rehabilitation, rehabilitation to help people get better. Unfortunately, Saar Poll's study revealed that reform cannot improve people's livelihoods. Poverty is increasing and health problems are increasing as a result. I have never quoted Mart Laar before, but this time I recall his words that the work capacity reform will not solve any problems. However, despite the many criticisms that target groups and professional associations have made recently, the first reading is still taking place, as you can see. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes that this raw and seriously deficient draft be removed from the procedure in this form. We really want this bill to mature. This reform is needed. We cannot support an extremely expensive bill that raises officials, pushes up acute issues from the state to the unemployment fund and municipalities and makes a disabled person unemployed. On behalf of the group, I will put forward a motion for rejection of the draft. You don't need any more paper, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1224	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1225	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Waitress! My question concerns inclusion. When this draft was discussed in the government office during the previous government, the members of the government were given the impression that it had been thoroughly discussed with the organisations of the disabled. Now it's a completely different picture. On Tuesday, representatives of organisations of persons with disabilities handed a petition to Parliament that, precisely because of their non-inclusion, the draft should not be processed in this form but rejected. In the press, statements were made that disabled people's organisations were affected by the reduction of project grants so that they would not dare to express their views. What are some reasons for such claims? Can you comment on who and under what circumstances these claims have been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1226	Thank you, Reverend Asker! First of all, about the latest information, as if someone had influenced someone, I can say that, as I know, there have been no such threats. Secondly, if I remember correctly an interview with some people, there was no mention of the withdrawal of project grants. Thirdly, as Minister, I certainly deplore any influence. But frankly, I don't see any levers to intimidate any organisation by taking away possible project grants. The decisions on the allocation of grants are not made by one person, but are generally decided by working groups or decision-making bodies with more than one person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1227	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1228	Thank you. Dear Minister, When this draft Employment Allowance Act was handed over, you and the Reform Party were very optimistic about the procedure for this draft. The Social Democrats, however, were very critical and found this draft to be crude. Can you briefly describe the main differences between coalition parties that the opinion on the maturity of the procedure is so different? Or has it just been a Socialist stump? As a result of yesterday's demonstration of the disabled, the target group to whom we are making this law presented a proposal to withdraw the draft from the procedure. Today the government already took one step and withdrew the draft law on public transport. Have you started consultations with the Prime Minister on the issue of the withdrawal of this bill as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1229	Thank you, Reverend Asker! If you ask whether we have discussed the withdrawal of the bill, we certainly have not done so, I will answer you here today in the remote. We have not had any intention of withdrawing this bill either. As a minister, I still support the debate in Parliament so that the law can become ideal in all respects. I see no reason to withdraw this bill. I will stick to the fact that the honourable Riigikogu could adopt the draft as a law in the autumn after discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1230	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1231	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns page 24 of the draft, where amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act are discussed. I am thinking in particular of disability pensions for law enforcement officials, both police and prosecutors. Right now, quite a few policemen are receiving disability pensions. I have a very simple question for you. I have read the various legal provisions, and I also know the discussions that have been held in the drafting of this draft. Discussions have been tense and the Ministry of Social Affairs has had quite a number of ideas about changing the system. Are you going to give the police today the assurance that the system will continue to be the same as it is today? Or do they get better or worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1232	Thank you, Reverend Asker! In the context of this issue, possible guarantees must be looked at, given the risks associated with the profession of these people. In the event of an attack or accident which, regrettably, has also resulted in death in the course of its duties, the lump sums to be paid in this case have been increased. The maximum rate shall be up to 20 times the salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1233	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1234	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to the bill, a person can also make a choice that his or her capacity to work is paid to another person or to a local municipality, which is very reasonable. However, according to the current rules, this can only be done in such a way that a person has to go to the unemployment fund or confirm this application in a notarial way. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People has proposed that this be done with digital signature or in the e-environment. You have not supported this proposal. You justify this by identifying whether it really is the will of this person. Dear Minister! You give your own digital signatures all the time, and no one goes to see if it's your will or not. Your colleague Urve Palo will also sign the decisions with digital signature, and then we will try to figure out for hours whether it was his will or someone else's.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1235	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Implementation of the first phase of the Act will last until 2020. We have received approval from both employers and all kinds of social partners, including trade unions, through the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. It can therefore be said that approval exists. Now I will answer the second part of the question: is there any assurance that this process is sustainable and that the unemployment fund will not be part of the ministry? It has to be said that case managers are recruited on the basis of people's real needs. The proposal of disability organisations has been that those who work at the unemployment fund do not communicate with people in a fast-track manner, i.e. 3 to 5 minutes, as was the case during the worst crisis period, when the number of unemployed was nearly 100,000. On this basis, it is considered that one case manager deals with about 100 cases (80 or 120 cases in the customer portfolio). The degree of complexity of the cases also leads to the development of a client portfolio. So it's based on practical experience. The case manager must definitely start going out of the house more, interacting with networks, local authorities and non-profit institutions that are all involved in this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1236	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1237	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! You did not actually answer the first part of my previous question. This reform has been prepared for several years. As an annex to the explanatory memorandum, there is a coordination table which indicates the views of disabled people's organisations, whether they have been taken into account or partly taken into account, or whether the matter has been clarified or informed. But 24 hours ago, representatives of organisations of persons with disabilities proposed that the Riigikogu reject this draft at first reading. Why do you think these organisations proposed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1238	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1239	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1240	Thank you. Dear Minister, According to § 10 of the draft Act, the unemployment fund, at the request of the person, issues him or her with a document certifying his or her partial or absence of work capacity. The Estonian Patients' Association has proposed that it should also be determined that this document is issued in accordance with the manner requested by the person. You have not supported this proposal and you have written in response that the way in which the document is issued is shaped by practice. However, can we not meet the patients' representative society and introduce this change? Otherwise, there will be the same concern that people will be cranked, that the e-state will not work in this area, and that people will have to pick up the document themselves. My last question was about that, too. The problem is understandable. Why don't you take into account the suggestion that a person gets a document in the way he or she requested?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1241	Thank you. There are currently two institutional actors in this system: those who have partial capacity to work are generally covered by the unemployment fund, others by the Social Insurance Board. There are certainly different ways to obtain documents. But we must take into account that, for example, data on the health information system cannot be moved freely in one way or another, but that a person must give specific permission to whom and how to view it. I am convinced that if we have a five-year experience after the reform has been launched, a number of nuances may change. The system should certainly improve with regard to a potential direct beneficiary, i.e. a job seeker.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1242	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1243	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is a very serious and important draft, which concerns a very large number of people. I have listened for several hours to this debate here, but I still have not received an answer to the question that I had when I met people with disabilities. The idea and objectives of this law are very noble and great. But no one understands or, in my opinion, has been able to explain enough how to get to them and what is positive about this bill so that the lives of those who are unable to work can be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1244	Thank you, good questioner! When you read the draft carefully, you know that this bill has many noble goals. One noble goal is to increase people's incomes, improve their ability to cope on their own and thus improve their quality of life, link them to society more socially valuable and make the system more sustainable. I bring only one fact: between 2000 and today, the number of inability pensioners has increased 2.2 times. If we do nothing, it will grow even more, and I can certainly promise that the number of unhappy people will increase in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1245	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1246	Thank you. Good minister! I will read what the explanatory memorandum says about Article 11 of the draft. It ends this way: 'A person with a disabled capacity to work is guaranteed income. At the same time, activity requirements do not apply, although a person can take part in the measures on a voluntary basis. ' The previous paragraph, which was also touched by my colleague Laurson, reads: 'A learner with partial working capacity is guaranteed an income for the period of study. " If a person is part-time, maybe he's part-time? How long can a person study in different schools? Could it be that he's studying to be a lawyer, then a potter, then he's trying to be a doctor, and that's how he keeps studying? As learning is considered an active activity, it does not have to look for a job. He or she will not be placed under conditions and will continue to receive benefits for his or her ability to work. How long is that possible? Paragraph 11 of the draft law does not make this clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1247	Are you sure? Got it. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1248	Thank you. It seems to me that you and I have just agreed that maybe the Minister of the Government of the Republic also needs some time to propose the withdrawal of the draft. To give him that time and opportunity, I ask for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1249	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Heljo Pikhofi for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1250	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1251	Sure. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In a country with an ageing and declining population, the number of dependants of every employed person is inevitably increasing. However, if the taxpayers' ranks dwindle, society will not be able to guarantee a decent life from their taxes to either old age or inability to work. It is therefore in the interest of all of us to create a situation in which as many people as possible can find appropriate applications. We have almost 100,000 disability pensions, one third of them working, two thirds not. Around 40,000 of them, so say polls, would be happy to work for themselves, want to participate in society and earn a decent salary if they only had opportunities and jobs. It is not just a matter of living standards; it is also a question of human dignity. Work capacity reform has been launched to help as many people as possible to work with complex and flexible measures. The most important value of this reform can be considered to be a change in mentality. People with partial work ability have said that many would like to be applied appropriately. They do not dispute the need for a labour capacity reform. However, they have said that problems need to be identified and started again. We are talking about really big restructuring, which is endlessly linked to education, health services and jobs, including part-time jobs, as well as the accident and occupational disease insurance law. In some cases, a very legitimate criticism of the relevant stakeholders has gone to the wider arch and often to the associated areas. I dare confirm that the Social Democrats agree that no law on labour capacity reform will be adopted rashly. There is still a lot of work to be done on the drafts to ensure that the work capacity reform fulfils its central objective of helping as many people as possible to work. The reform must be made so that those for whom it has been made can benefit from it. This will require further in-depth discussions. Hopefully, the whole picture will clear up by autumn. During the discussion of this draft, a number of additional problems have been clearly drawn up, which are not directly related to the draft, but certainly need to be resolved. Close cooperation with stakeholders is needed. I consider it necessary to conclude a cooperation agreement on goodwill to solve the issues of people with health impairment. I have proposed to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Labour and Health that work be done to bring about an agreement that will identify the issues and points of pain in the field and which will set out the actions needed to achieve the objectives, together with deadlines and those responsible, so that they can continue to be guided. Social Democrats consider the availability of suitable jobs for people with special needs as a key element of the reform. The government should draw up a plan for creating new jobs, including part-time jobs, and provide employers with additional levers to be interested in hiring people with partial employment capacity. The country with the unemployment fund is precisely the one who should show the way by recruiting people with reduced capacity to act as case managers and consultants. After labour market training, occupational rehabilitation and, if necessary, the appointment of a support person, a person with less working capacity must still be able to work. That's literally what I'm saying. To this end, the issue of transport needs to be resolved so that people with special needs can get to work from a distance, the procedure for paying transport support needs to be updated. Social Democrats also see the need for differentiation of work capacity allowances so that people with greater loss of work capacity will receive more support, people with less work capacity could receive somewhat less support. Clearly too low is the limit in the current version of the draft, according to which people with a gross monthly fee of more than EUR 640 will be reduced. This ceiling should be set significantly higher, for example by the average gross wage. The aim is to help as many people as possible to work, but there must be young people at the heart of restructuring. If a young person with partial employment capacity completes a vocational school or receives other training, he or she usually does not enter the unemployment fund's interest. He must be directed there as soon as he has completed his education if he has not received a job, because if he stays home or in a nursing home for years, the skills he has learned will be forgotten and any interest in finding a job will be lost. Yet, he could be faced with a long and meaningful working life. With regard to the Social Democrats' amendments, which are largely based on the opinion of stakeholders, we certainly intend to negotiate and calculate their impact. I hope that we can discuss these and other opinions and proposals at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1253	Thank you. I ask Jüri Jaansoni, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1254	Ladies and gentlemen, Work capacity reform has been built piece by piece for a long time, since 2010. Of course, this whole system is not ready for now. We are discussing today the core part of this reform, the draft law on capacity support for work, which is going to reverse completely the entire system of incapacity for work. The main objective of the employment capacity reform is to give people who are excluded from society, who have permanent employment capacity, the opportunity to find some kind of appropriate output in society, whether it is a job or an education. The involvement of these people is also necessary for society, not just for these people themselves. In this context, I find it inappropriate to talk about any problems that may arise in 2020 and to ask questions as to whether we will have enough money or what will happen next. Is there a chance that in 2020 we will not have enough money for one part of society for taxpayers? I don't see a chance like that. We're talking about employing 500 case managers to get 15,000 people to work. I think the proportions are completely in place here. We are talking about a very long-term system, basically one that should help these people in a positive key to infinity. The work capacity reform consists of its core, which we are currently discussing, and of the many support systems that we are gradually developing and building up as a whole. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have already opened a debate on amendments to the Social Welfare Act. In the autumn, we will start reading all the draft laws on these topics. In presenting the impact study on the employment capacity reform, Saar Poll also made it clear that they do not see the possibility of the core part of the reform and the supporting elements being dealt with together at first, because these things will just get very mixed up. It is important that the core section is currently being dealt with, that the support systems then gradually come back. I would also like to stress that none of the representatives of the target group, who have been very much discussed here today, have claimed that there is no need for a reform of working capacity. On the contrary, many of them have said that the sooner the work capacity reform is implemented, the better for them. Good ambassadors! I, too, call on you all to vote in favour of the completion of the first reading of the draft Employment Allowance Act. This is for the simple reason that the Social Affairs Committee has a long summer to discuss all the amendments in a calm manner in order to be prepared in the autumn to process and process draft supporting laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1255	Thank you. There's no more calls. There can be no more because all the political groups have spoken. I'm closing the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 678. IRL has written the paper that this bill should be rejected. The Centre Party has its own idea that the draft should be rejected, forwarded without paper. I don't know, Marika Tuus-Laul, either you have to get the paper or you don't have to. The board has decided to bring it. That's right. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1256	I still need some paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1257	Do you really have to?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-06-18_U1258	Dear colleagues, the recess requested by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has ended. I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the content of which is one: to reject draft 678 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Consequently, I will set the deadline for the submission of the 678 amendments at 10 a.m. on 11 August. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
