ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, Question Time begins. Please, let's do the presence check first! 27 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 74 are missing. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, and Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture, will attend the Question Class today. The questioners registered last night in six. In order to allow all the registered questioners to ask their questions, I will give only two people in the Chamber an opportunity to ask for each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U2	Let's get started. Please, Urmas Reinsalu, question to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U3	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! The crisis in Ukraine has changed the entire security environment in Europe and requires a rapid and flexible response from all countries. The Government of the Republic approved the state's budget strategy a few days ago. What specific changes to the state's budget strategy were made by the Government of the Republic in the interests of improving Estonia's security in relation to the changed security environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U4	Thank you. The country's budgetary strategy clearly reflects the priority of the Government of the Republic to ensure that defence costs are at least 2% of GDP, but in addition, the amounts that go to internal security must be gradually increased. However, apart from the country's budgetary strategy and the fact that Estonia has consistently been one of the four NATO Member States that has kept its defence expenditures at 2% of GDP, I am very pleased about this, it is important that our allies, with whom we are immeasurably much stronger than we are alone, are prominently present here. I am pleased that the presence of allies in the territory of Estonia has increased considerably over the last month. This is an important message, I believe, for both Estonia and outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U5	Is Urmas Reinsalu willing to ask for further questions? It is. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! My specific question was what practical steps the government envisages in the light of the country's budgetary strategy in relation to the change in the security situation. I stress that maintaining 2% and not cutting it is certainly a step for which the government deserves recognition and not condemnation, but this step had already been agreed earlier. To question this would certainly mean a great deal of instability in the area of security. But I have a concrete proposal on behalf of the IRL. All parliamentary parties could enter into an agreement on national defence, where the national defence goals of Estonia would also be fixed in a changed security environment. What is the government's position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U7	Thank you. First of all, I will answer the first part of the question about what concrete steps the government is taking or is planning to take in relation to the country's budgetary strategy. In the last month, the government has already decided to acquire armored combat vehicles for the infantry. This is Estonia's biggest defence procurement ever. The questioner himself knows very well how important this is to increase Estonia's defence capabilities. These machines have a high firepower and significantly strengthen Estonia's defence capabilities. But there are also a number of other things that modernise Estonia's armaments and improve the training of the Defence Forces. Part of these results directly from the strategy, part of it cannot be spoken out in public, but we can be sure that we are constantly committed to increasing Estonia's defence capabilities. As regards your proposal to temporarily increase Estonia's defence expenditure, I think it would be appropriate to discuss it between the parties in a slightly different format, not here at the moment. I find it a little inappropriate or uncomfortable to discuss this issue so that I am here on the remote and you are on the stand, but I think this proposal is a step in the right direction. True, what is even more important than this percentage is what we should do specifically and what capabilities we can increase. The content is much more important than the percentage or slogan.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U8	I remind the members of the Riigikogu that the topic is the budgetary strategy of the state. Urmas Reinsalu, please, second additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U9	Thank you. I'm sure you'd be more comfortable if you were in the hall and I would answer your questions. But I would like to say that it is reasonable for political forces to seek consensus in order to have one area, namely national security, even in these difficult times and in the face of the parliamentary elections, on which it could be said that there is a long-term consensus. This area should not be the subject of day-to-day political passion, and its focus should be precisely this IRL proposal. Our second proposal was specifically on funding. Our goal was to find additional resources to obtain protective equipment. Personally, I think that this could be done by postponing some of the civil investments in the RKAS. I mean the administrative buildings. What is the position of the Government of the Republic on this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U10	Thank you. As far as administrative buildings are concerned, paradoxically they are mostly built in the area of security. Your party partner, Ken-Marti Vaher, stood very firm as a minister for building buildings for the Rescue Board and the police. If these constructions were to be abandoned now, this would not result in a very significant victory over the state's defence capabilities, but would worsen the situation of the police and the Rescue Board. However, we are quite seriously discussing the need to come up with an additional security package for the current financial year, which aims to increase the most important capabilities once and for all. This concerns both defence capacity and internal security. Whether an amendment to the State Budget Act needs to come before Parliament, or whether it is possible to agree on the content first and make the changes at the end of the year, is indicated by the time. But once again, much more important than the percentage of GDP is that we are still essentially looking at which places we have to contribute the most, and that is what we are going to be serious about. It is also very important for Estonia that our allies contribute 2% of GDP to their defence capabilities. I have spoken to the Prime Minister and President of Latvia, and I am very pleased that they are committed to significantly increasing defence spending. At present, however, Latvia's defence expenditure in absolute terms is almost half as low as in Estonia. I am glad that they are moving towards growth. There is also news from Lithuania that they are taking the strategic goal of reaching the same level as Estonia today. I'm sure that'll cheer us up. As we know, if the neighbours are strong and they are also betting, and if our allies are strong, then we are definitely in a better position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U11	Now two specific questions. Starts with Marika Tuus-lauul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! If we look at public finances more broadly, we can see that we are giving with one hand, but with the other we are taking double back. We are increasing child subsidies, while the excise duty on natural gas and the excise duty on light fuel oil are rising, which is causing a general price race again. In fact, the accelerated increase in alcohol duty also gives the signal that the more you consume alcohol, the more beneficial it is for the state. Inevitably, that's what it looks like. However, should we not, instead of these huge cuts and tax increases, think about how to increase people's well-being so that people stay in Estonia and people of active age do not leave here? If more people worked in Estonia, taxes would be better collected and Estonia's life would progress. Shouldn't we be thinking more about jobs? Shouldn't the state regulate more how people manage?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U13	Thank you. You're right. We give it on the one hand and we take it back on the other. No government can ever give its taxpayers, its citizens, anything that it has never collected from these citizens in taxes before. That's what we all get. But I think we're taking the right place. You yourself stressed that the increase in alcohol duty is an important source of cover. I think it is very right to tax harmful consumption habits precisely. In addition to alcohol consumption, tobacco consumption must also be taxed higher. I think this is the right place to take money to fill a taxpayer's wallet. We are, as you rightly pointed out, giving this money, for example, to significantly increase child benefits. Tomorrow, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, a draft is being discussed, which provides for child allowances to be multiplied, especially for those families that are hardest to cope with. I think it is quite right to take a higher fee on alcohol and give more support to families with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U14	The second point to be clarified. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U15	Thank you. I have, like, a bilateral question about the budgetary strategy. First of all, I am asking about the budget that we are currently using. Are the costs of the Spring Storm maneuvers included in that 2%? I mean the defense budget. Or has it been added elsewhere from the state budget? That's the first part of the question. Secondly, I am interested that, if you are planning the budget for next year and you are doing it actively now, will the costs of the new TV channel, the so-called Russian TV channel, be planned there too? How do you feel about creating a channel that Ansip is not in favour of, but others are in favour of?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U16	Thank you. The spring storm has been planned for a long time. Of course, its costs are included in this year's defence budget and fit well into these 2%. This year, the Spring Storm will be even bigger than in previous years, with nearly 6,000 Defence Forces participating, not only from Estonia, but also from our allies. This is a remarkable exercise. I'm glad it's happening again. These exercises will probably take place even more in the future, which is why we already have plans and money in the budget strategy. The other part of the question was about the new TV channel. It is currently being debated, being held in government and Parliament, but also with a certain frequency in public. I believe that the most important thing before you write out the check is to come to an understanding of how you can address the target group most effectively. It is necessary to clarify whether it would help to further strengthen the already very well-functioning Russian-language news channels, both in the ERR and why not in private channels, or whether it is essential to make a separate channel. Right now, all these options are on the table. When we come to the best solution, we will also have a financial cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U18	Next, a member of the Riigikogu will have the floor on Mailis Repsi. The question of education policy is for Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U19	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Speaking of education policy, we could pre-heat the pending pre-school law, but we could talk a little bit more about it. The decision to harmonise qualifications requirements for teachers in the absence of years meant additional training for thousands of kindergarten teachers, many re-entering higher education. That is why there is a legitimate question of what teachers have received for this. Do you support wage harmonisation and the introduction of national minimum rates of pay for kindergarten teachers as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U20	Thank you. Honourable questioner! This issue is very relevant and topical. It is clear that people who do equal work and meet the same educational requirements could at least be remunerated in a comparable way. At the moment, there are certainly problems with a minimum teacher's salary at school of 800 euros, but it is considerably lower in the pre-school institution. I can't say last year's rate by heart, but the year before that it was about 600 euros in Estonia. I think that there is also a need for a broader social debate on who is responsible for the functioning of pre-school institutions and the organisation of education there. This has been entirely within the competence of the local authorities. For this reason, I have not seen the possibility at present of a country being able to set a minimum rate that local authorities should take into account without the state paying separately for the pre-school pay fund for teachers. This can be discussed in principle, but it would also mean that pre-school institutions would become more national. The question arises to what extent this makes sense, given that pre-school institutions are primarily linked to the local level, and local authorities are certainly the most competent to assess where and how much kindergartens are needed. This government has no intention of making a decision on this issue, but I think that the concept of pre-school education needs a broader debate, and I hope that the next government will take a clearer position here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U21	Mailis Reps, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have certainly had time to familiarise yourself with this or to remind you that a few years ago, part of the national programme in the pre-school institution included an agreement with the local government. The municipality received the wage subsidy when it changed the wages to the minimum rates. The vast majority, almost 90% of local governments used it, the municipality established such salaries and received state support. This could also be the solution for this government. So I hope that the national programme mentioned in the coalition agreement could also mean minimum wage rates. I am asking a point of detail on what is certainly close to the heart of the Social Democrats. Would kindergarten teachers be able to take a holiday in the coming summer at a rate corresponding to those of the teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U23	Thank you. I need to repeat my first answer to some extent. I do not think that we can start taking decisions on this subject from one end without analysing the whole. If, in a few hours' time, we are going to discuss the draft law on pre-school children's institutions, then it is certainly up to us once again to reach an agreement on the concept of pre-school education on what parts are the responsibility of the state and which parts are the responsibility of the local government and how funding is organised at this level of education. I have been actively communicating with local authorities over the last month and a half on both pre-school and teacher salaries. Certainly, local authorities also have a desire to work more actively on these issues. In my opinion, the education provided in pre-school childcare facilities could be treated more closely with other levels of education. This need, in my view, is absolutely clear. However, it does mean that if we start making unilateral decisions, we will have a financial impact on local authorities. I do not think it would be reasonable or possible for the state to unilaterally introduce some sort of difference in working conditions or a minimum wage, but I am prepared to discuss these issues with the local authorities. But I'm afraid if we have not agreed on the concept as a whole, it is unlikely that we will make decisions this year. However, according to the coalition agreement, we are examining whether it would be wise to make the last year of kindergarten mandatory for all children. This could also mean that the money for this year comes from a state that will, to some extent, share the role of local government and state in the provision of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U24	Mailis Reps, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U25	Thank you, Mr President. When we in the past imposed a requirement for higher education on teachers, they were given a clear signal that at one point the conditions would be harmonised. Soon it will be ten years and we could talk not only about the minimum wage but also about the duration of the leave. Kindergarten teachers find it extremely unfair that their leave is much shorter than that of their colleagues, such as primary school teachers or classroom teachers. The second point to be clarified is the working time of teachers working in kindergarten. When the new Working Time Regulation was introduced by September, the division of the working time of pre-school teachers still in force was abolished: 30 hours of work in the group + 5 additional hours for development discussions and other preparatory work. Do you have a plan to redefine the workload of a kindergarten teacher in the group, how many hours out of 35 hours does he have to work there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U26	Thank you. I have to apologize for not being able to answer such a technical question right now. The issue is education policy. If I had known this subject in advance, I could answer. I'm sure I'll be more specific. However, it is agreed in the coalition agreement that, in addition to the wage negotiations under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, we could also agree in a tripartite way on the workload of school teachers, the amount of the class management fee and the motivation for upgrading qualifications and other such issues. I think it is reasonable to extend this debate to teachers in pre-school institutions. These discussions with local authorities and with the Alliance of Educational Workers are imminent, and we will certainly be analysing this issue as well. I will be happy to answer your specific question later in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U27	Now two questions on the spot. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! My question is about education policy for children with special needs. Unfortunately, in recent years or almost throughout our second period of independence, the money for training children with special needs has been constantly drawn together, both at national level and, unfortunately, in local governments. Do you think such a policy is right? Will this policy continue under your leadership, or what do you think the state and the municipalities should do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U29	Thank you. That's a good question. The subject is extremely important and in the near future important decisions will certainly be taken in this area as well. This concerns a network of children's schools with such a heavier special educational needs, or HEV-2, which we will be able to organise and update in the next European Union funding period, but also to a large extent the education of children of the HEV-1 type. The direction has been taken towards inclusive education, i.e. we do not isolate children with special educational needs into special classes, but we try to integrate them into society. That, in my opinion, is basically right. This is also reflected in the financing model: the bounty does not depend on whether the child is in a special class or in a normal class. However, it is worth examining more precisely whether schools are able to provide adequate support for children with special educational needs who are taught in the normal class. The issue of state funding for support specialists is also discussed here again, which is certainly one of the key issues in the forthcoming discussions in the government and in the Riigikogu in § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. For the next budgetary period of the European Union, resources will be provided to take greater account of specific educational needs and to address them more in the education system. It must be acknowledged that there are quite a number of problems, but the new government has taken an active approach to them. Two weeks ago, we met with the Minister of Social Affairs to determine how to work with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Committee on Culture will soon be able to hear about these thoughts and ideas on how this issue could proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U30	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U31	Good Chairman! Good minister! Certainly, education policy is an important part of upper secondary school education. In recent years, the state has put a lot of emphasis on state secondary schools. Last week, it was possible to read your words from the media that upper secondary schools with 50 children are also sustainable and strong. I hope I understand you correctly. Does this mean that in the autumn it is hoped that the current small upper secondary schools will somehow receive more money and that the municipality will be able to support this school? At the moment, it seems that teachers' salaries are already missing in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U32	Thank you. Firstly, the decisions concerning the financing of upper secondary schools this year in such a way that the financing of upper secondary schools with a small number of students has moved more into the responsibility of the local government, i.e. the state's support for them has decreased, are not my decisions, but those were the decisions of your party minister. Secondly, my words may have been interpreted a little arbitrarily. I do not agree in principle with the number of students from which the upper secondary school is sustainable. I think that there is a consensus among educators and specialists that it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to maintain upper secondary schools with fewer than 50 students and provide high-quality education there. Some educators have said that this is difficult even when there are under 100 students. I think that if there are 50-100 students (or a little more) in school, it depends very much on what the head of this school is and what the local government is, how much and how well and actively the upper secondary school stuff is done on the ground. There are very good upper secondary schools with 80 students and there are schools with 100 students, but the situation is quite problematic. So I certainly do not think that the state should set some limit below which upper secondary schools are closed. It is clear, however, that no government can ignore the demographic trends in Estonia that continue. Consequently, the State must take decisions. However, I do not think that we should forcefully forge the closure of upper secondary schools, as has been done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U34	The next question is asked by Andrus Saare Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas. The issue is the cooperation of the Government Union. Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U35	Yes, my question is about the cooperation of the government union with businesses. This is due to the genuine concern expressed by economic operators and representatives of these organisations. In fact, the government has sent a number of drafts to the Riigikogu that significantly increase the tax burden and obligations of businesses. Representative organisations have also sent a number of appeals and letters in which they express just as noble wishes as the government: the tax hole must be reduced and a fair business environment must be created. However, as they claim, these proposals are in fact not taken into account in substance, except for some technical issues. The saddest of all, they admit that there is virtually no dialogue with the government. Some meetings have been held, but the business community believes that they have been rather unilateral, that there has been no bilateral communication. In the near future, does the government intend to come up with any draft that does not impose disproportionate obligations on entrepreneurial people, but, on the contrary, does it include proposals to support entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U36	Thank you. Yes, the government is planning to come up with a proposal to cut labour taxes. Businesses have been very interested in this issue and are still interested in it. The government is planning to actively address the fact that the Estonian tax environment and the wider economic environment would not only be as attractive as it has been so far, but would become even more attractive. I have met many entrepreneurs from many countries. They have said that there are very few countries where the economic environment is as transparent and the tax environment is as favourable as it is in Estonia. But surely, the government should not take this great praise without having to do anything anymore. On the contrary, I think that this commendation should encourage us to make even more effort and contribute even more to the economic environment. As regards your claim that the tax hole is being reduced by the drafts that we have worked out with the IRL and which the government, together with the IRL Ministers, has sent to Parliament, will increase someone's tax burden, I must say that the drafts that reduce the tax hole can only increase the tax burden of those who avoided tax before they were paid. In theory, the tax burden on any honest entrepreneur cannot be increased, even more so, if all market participants act in accordance with the same rules and everyone has a level playing field. No one has to get an unfair competitive advantage at the expense of others. An honest business environment certainly wins from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U37	Andrus Island, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U38	Thank you. I quote the words of the Director-General of the Chamber of Commerce: 'In my ten-year practice, I do not remember any draft that would have such a broad impact and caused opposition from the whole target group. I do not know of any organisation representing entrepreneurs who would say that this draft is good and justified. ' He is specifically talking about Bill 493, which is evidently adopted as a law in this Chamber today. How, then, will the tax burden not increase if companies have claimed that declaring invoices of EUR 1000 will still be quite costly (the estimates of how these amounts are different) and the VAT related to passenger cars, which is being discussed in this Chamber, will increase the tax burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U39	Thank you. If all market participants declare VAT correctly, there is no change in the tax burden on companies that have so far correctly declared all their obligations. The amount of tax that they must submit following the VAT return declared on the 20th of each month cannot be increased. However, as regards the involvement of business organisations at this stage, while the draft is already in Parliament, here, the good members of the Riigikogu, you have the ball largely in your hands. The majority of the draft has been in the debate in Parliament, led by Mr Sven Sester, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. He repeatedly had opportunities to communicate with entrepreneurs and look for solutions. I would point out that this bill has been supported by two governments and three political parties. In principle, the same draft has now been slightly improved in cooperation with entrepreneurs, already submitted by the previous government in September last year. Until spring, it was dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs under the leadership of Sven Sester. Since spring, this bill has rather improved from the point of view of businesses. I am therefore somewhat amazed that you are reproaching the current government. I believe that the same decisions and positions you defended as a member of the government should also be represented in opposition. I think that an honest tax environment is a value that all four parliamentary parties could regard as right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U40	Andrus Island, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U41	Your comment was inappropriate. I am in favour of a fair tax environment. What you're saying about everyone telling you the truth is absolutely right. However, I had in mind the costs to businesses of all of this. After all, expenditure on red tape is increasing and investment is also needed. I didn't say that everyone should declare in the same way. After all, you probably acknowledge that if business organisations send us tens of dollars, there have been gaps in communication, and the new government could enhance cooperation with business organisations. That was my proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U42	Thank you. Once again, a good questioner, this bill has been in the process for over half a year, but the current government has been in office for just over a month. Most of the time this draft has been in Parliament's proceedings, your party partner, Sven Sester, was in charge of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in Parliament, which is the committee responsible for this draft. If, as his party partner, you accuse me of having held the Prime Minister's office for just over a month, that there have been not enough coordination or discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, I feel that this is a place to look in the mirror. The Finance Commission was led by your party partner. Where were these discussions supposed to take place? But now I'm talking about the administrative burden. Let it be said, as a marginal note, that at the meeting of the Cabinet, your party associates at the time suggested bringing it down to EUR 500, which the Minister of Finance did not agree to, saying that this would not have any additional effect on the tax revenue, but would create additional administrative burden. As regards the administrative burden of declaring invoices of at least EUR 1000, the most significant tax burden can arise for companies that do not use accounting programmes but do accounting by hand. In the manual or in the Excel table, the accounts are primarily made by micro-enterprises, where at least EUR 1000 of bills are certain to occur, but probably not too often. Manually entering these accounts means maybe ten, maybe twenty extra seconds for each bill. But I believe that the win that the business environment gets from the fact that all market participants, all florists, barbershops, accommodation companies, pay fair taxes is much higher than this small additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U43	Honourable questioners and respondents! We will try to deal with the issue in one minute and with the answer in two minutes, then we will follow the law exactly. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am asking about the confusion that governs the ministers and their powers. The Minister of Enterprise and Foreign Trade Sulling recently appointed the EAS Board. It has now become apparent that, in order for this decision to be legitimate or legally correct, it had to go ahead and sign off on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Palo. How can there be a minister in the government who does not have the right to sign, and how can the minister and the signature be separated?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U45	Thank you. That's a good question. The current Act of the Government of the Republic, which the current government has proposed to amend and the revised version of which is on the table of Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, indeed provides that we have ministers who run the ministry and ministers who do not run the ministries at all and who are called "non-portfolio ministers." As long as there is an institution or a role of a minister without a portfolio, there is indeed a situation in which the Minister cannot sign documents on certain matters, all the more so, he cannot always defend the draft before Parliament and cannot be directly responsible for drafting all the drafts. It is for this reason that we have decided to reform the government's organisation of work, so that all ministers are equal and have the opportunity to lead their field in substance. First of all, we want to move to a more flexible model, which is also used in Finland, for example, and to give the opportunity to manage areas, not ministries. Secondly, we want to eliminate the unequal role of ministers, that some are ministers with a portfolio and others without a portfolio. I very much hope that the Centre Party will also support these changes. The support given to these ideas by the IRL ranks has already been heard. I welcome this, because I consider it very important that the law of the government be amended on the basis of a broader sense of cooperation. I hope that if you seriously mean what you said when you asked the question, you too will find the strength to support this draft proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U46	The second point to be clarified. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U47	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! I'll come back to business. First of all, I would like to stress that I certainly support the identification of tax fraudsters and honest entrepreneurship. This was about whether the Riigikogu committees have negotiated with entrepreneurs. I would remind you that last autumn, the Law on VAT on passenger cars came to the Riigikogu, which was rejected and never came to the reading. The committees of the Riigikogu have discussed many of these issues with entrepreneurs. I must certainly stress that I have not voted on the EUR 1000 issue. But you said to my first question that only dishonest entrepreneurs do not want these laws. However, at present, all operators report that they do not support the adoption of these three laws. Are all Estonian entrepreneurs unfair?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U48	Thank you. Good questioner! Mr Saare said that this issue had not been sufficiently discussed with business, and you said that it had been discussed enough in Parliament. I believe that the Golden Midway is that this issue has been discussed and these drafts have become better. After all, as Members of Parliament, you can decide when the debates in Parliament have been sufficient and when they have not. I never said what you were trying to attribute to me. I said that patching up the tax hole and combating tax fraud will not increase the tax burden on any honest entrepreneur. Those were my words, and I'm sure I'll stay with them. If we honestly collect all taxes from all companies, then the interests of those companies who have paid taxes honestly so far, believe that is the lion's share of entrepreneurs, are certainly protected. Indeed, those companies that have so far been able to use unfair practices in the market, so-called "taxation" by not paying some taxes and by not declaring some invoices, can no longer resort to unfair practices. Honest entrepreneurs, who, as I said, are the lion's share of all entrepreneurs, will certainly win. If the environment is equal, fair and transparent, it is in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U49	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Next thing I know, I should give Yana Toom a chance to ask, but I can't do it because she's not in the hall. Then I should give you the opportunity to ask a question to Jaak Aavikole, but I can't do it either, because he's not in the Chamber either. They've both announced they're late, and they've apologized for it. How much later they come, I can't tell you. When they get here, they'll get a chance to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U50	Therefore, please, Priit Toobal! The question is about students for Prime Minister Taavi Clothes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U51	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Malevasuvi is starting again in Estonia, registration has already begun. Once again, there are fewer places than there are people who want to. In order to motivate employers to offer more jobs to the Chevrons, the Centre Party Group already launched a draft in 2011 which would have freed employers from paying social tax for the students. However, this draft is still in the Committee on Culture drawer. What is your position as Prime Minister on this draft? If you are in a supportive position, could you, as the leader of the coalition, signal the chairman of the Committee on Culture that it would be wise to take this draft out of the drawer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U52	Thank you. First of all, my attitude towards the students and, at all, for young people to be able to shape working habits in school is very positive. I think that all those who are already in primary school or upper secondary school get their first work placement will certainly be in a better position on the labour market later. This is probably one of the reasons for the practice of youth work placements, which is why there is a significantly lower rate of youth unemployment in Estonia than in most other countries of the European Union. I am of the opinion that the state, as well as local authorities, should provide financial support to students. That's what they do, but municipalities, true, do it quite differently. The state has provided financial support from year to year, for example through the Gambling Tax Council. These amounts have rather been on a growing trend, with almost EUR 120000 allocated over the last year. If I ask whether, in addition to direct financial support, tax incentives could be used, I dare be sceptical. Tax incentives are always a very expensive undertaking, which creates a great deal of administrative burden. Each tax exemption complicates the tax system. It must be very critical to assess whether, for a month or for a few weeks, the financial gain resulting from the granting of tax relief to a few thousand people outweighs the administrative burden that we are creating with it. It seems to me that we will get a much better result if municipalities and the state contribute even more financially directly to the support of students.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U53	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In 2012, the then Minister for Education and Science, who was in the same government coalition as you (the Prime Minister was then the second), announced at the meeting of the Cabinet that he would propose a social tax concession for employers to increase the number of jobs in young people. In fact, it was as if a government office had agreed that such a concession would be granted. Has the current cabinet decided otherwise? I was impressed by your answer to the previous question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U55	Thank you. In 2011, I was not a member of the Government of the Republic and was therefore not a member of the Cabinet of the Government. If I remember correctly, you weren't a member of the Government of the Republic at the time and couldn't attend these meetings. I think it would be quite useless for the two of us here to speculate on what the then Minister for Education and Science, who, in addition to everything, is not present in the Chamber, said or omitted. But it is clear that if we want to support students, there are opportunities to do so both through the state budget and through the municipal budgets. This is much more efficient and more tangible aid than the creation of a very expensive tax exemption to change the whole tax system. If we're looking at student growth, I'm gonna notice a patchy regional coverage. So there is probably potential to expand the chess activity in some counties. I call on those municipalities that have not yet contributed to student activities to consider this seriously. I believe that in all areas of Estonia, young people could get their first work experience in the summer so that they would later be more competitive on the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U56	Priit Toobal, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! This quote, which I read out, did come from 2012 and it was published in the then Minister's public announcement about the cabinet session, which was nothing that was said anywhere in office silence. However, according to the Health Insurance Act, all young people up to 19 years of age are treated as insured persons. Thus, the social tax is actually double-taxed on the Chevrons. The state provides them with health insurance, but the employer still pays for all the social tax. Why is this discrimination against young people included in the law, and do you consider it appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U58	Thank you. No, this cannot be called discrimination if everyone is subject to the same tax system. But as far as working for young people is concerned, you may even know that there are some serious discussions currently taking place in the Committee on Culture under the leadership of Lauri Luige on this subject. These discussions concern not only the student chess, but also the labour law that regulates the opportunities for young people and children to work. I very much hope that all the political parties in this Parliament will go into this matter and discuss it unanimously and seriously. I would love for all young people to have their first work experience before the day they graduate from high school. I made the first of my money selling newspapers, and before graduating from high school, I had at least five work experience. In retrospect, I can say that I won a great deal from these summer internships. I'm only happy for that. I therefore also dare to recommend this to the current generation of young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U59	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You referred to the discussions of the Committee on Culture. I would like to inform you that there are quite a number of positions that have been developed that have been supported by a number of parties. One such position has developed in the particular case of the social tax treatment of these young people. There would be no exception to making a change here. This would certainly not lead to an awful increase in the administrative burden in our e-state, nor would it be very costly for the administration system. I am therefore very sad that you did not consider this to be the right argument today. The discussions in the Committee on Culture sounded just as one of the possible ways of resolving the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U61	Thank you. If these discussions in the Committee on Culture reach such a stage that decisions can also be taken, then we will probably be able to discuss this issue. However, I would like to put it to you that, if you hold these debates there, you should still analyse which is a more effective measure, either direct financial support, which can be written as a specific amount either in the state budget or in the local government budgets or both, or a tax advantage for which the tax is not collected. Tax incentives, too, always have a price. If you do some work in the Committee on Culture and see that the effect of the tax credit is more effective, then we will probably be ready to discuss these options as well. Usually, it tends to be that direct and targeted support is more effective. But once again, discuss these issues in the Committee on Culture. I am absolutely sure that Lauri Luik will lead these discussions wisely and you will probably find sensible solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U63	Since neither Yana Toom nor Jaak Aaviksoo has reached the hall, it is necessary to ask whether any of the halls have sprung up a creative spirit. If he pushes the button quickly and says the name of the minister he wants to ask, he can do it. One question and one answer, and the name of the minister must be said. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U64	Dear Minister of Culture, Mrs. Tiidus! At the end of last week, news came out that the new integration programme was ready and drawn up on the basis of new goals. The news said that while there was an accent in the previous programme when studying Estonian, the emphasis of the new programme is on culture. I have a question with two sides: what objectives are the basis of the new programme and can you specify what cultural bathing could mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U65	Thank you very much, Mr Efendiev. First of all, the new integration plan has been made public. Anyone who wants to make suggestions and say a word can do so on the Internet page part.ee. There will be time until the end of May. This scheme is currently coordinated by other ministries. As regards the objectives of the integration plan, it is indeed the third integration plan in order in Estonia. Each scheme has had very clear sub-objectives and this time it is exactly the same. There are three of these sub-objectives. First, attitudes and values supporting integration must be fixed in Estonian society. This concerns a common information space, support for cultural diversity and awareness, as well as support for everyday contacts, communication and inclusion in society. The second sub-objective is the integration of permanent residents with different language and cultural backgrounds into society. The third objective is for new immigrants to adapt in Estonia. So the most recent issue is the sub-objective of new immigrants. I think all these objectives are important. The integration plan takes account of previous positive experiences and has also taken into account what can now be done better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U66	Thank you. Less than two minutes to the end of Question Time, we can ask, but no answer. Question Time is over. Thank you to the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 13th working week Wednesday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu, which will take place on 7 May. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? There are no drafts or requests for information. Incoming check, please! 73 members of the Riigikogu are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U68	The first item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law 545 on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I am opening negotiations, the right to speak is for the representatives of the political groups. There are no requests, so we are going to the final vote on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote of 545. Since this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu plenary to be adopted, we are conducting a verification of the presence. 70 members of the Riigikogu are present, 31 is missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 545. Please take a stand and vote. There are 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour of amending the Code of Civil Procedure and adopting the draft law amending other laws in connection with it. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U69	Let's go to the next item. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excises Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. The representatives of the political groups have a say. Nobody wants to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the draft be put to the final vote of 561. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Packaging Act and the Packaging Excises Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 561. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the adoption of the Packaging Act and the Act amending the Packaging Excise Duty Act, and there are no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U70	Let's go to the next item. The third reading of Bill 649 of the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I'm opening negotiations. Nobody wants to negotiate. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to put the draft to the final vote of 649. I am voting on the draft law amending the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this respect 649. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of amending the Public Information Act and the Electronic Communications Act and adopting the draft law amending other laws in this respect. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U71	Let's go to the next item. The third reading of the Act amending the VAT Act, which was not announced by the President of the Republic, begins. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U72	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are once again facing a fact that we do not really want to be in front of. We are once again processing the law in this Chamber, the nature of which may not be bad, but the procedure, the substantive debate and the signal it sends to society have been very damaging to Parliament. In some ways, the cherry on the cake was when this morning the press stated that this draft would require coordination from the European Commission, because, in the case of VAT exemptions, it would have to be asked. Estonia has not done so, and the press predicted that we could have considerable problems in implementing this law. According to them, even the implementation of the state budget could be under threat. For a moment, we put ourselves in the situation of a simple media consumer, an Estonian who has a normal job or has a retirement age and is more socially inclusive of Estonians, or a company that has to comply with this law. It must be said that this law cannot bring about positive emotions for citizens. All the more so since it has always been questionable how much this law actually helps to fill the Treasury and improve tax receipts. Now I want to speak as a citizen for a moment, not as a group speaker. In those days, I was in contact with the employees of the tax authorities who claimed that, unfortunately, they could not refund the VAT on exports to me because my partner, and the one they checked, has not submitted such an invoice in the tax return. So in fact, all the processes that we want to regulate with this law are functioning in normal business, anyway. How many times have there been claims in this Chamber that this law actually means putting an administrative burden on normal business. Unfortunately, we must agree that this is indeed the case. If anyone wants to cheat, dear people, it's going to be done in a completely different way. We're all pretty much sure of that. One of the biggest problems in Europe is the zero VAT directive between countries. This is one of the places where it would certainly be possible to detect tax fraud better through transnational cooperation, etc. The list could be continued. I've asked this board before, why is the limit 1,000 euros, but not 5,000 or 10,000? The question is not, in fact, the amount, the question is that if the Prime Minister comes and claims that we have an excellent tax environment that is getting better and better, and we are enthusiastically constantly improving the tax system, it is not true. Long time ago, that's not true. We hear a declaratory statement that labour taxes will be reduced and our system will be nice, transparent, nice and beautiful. It's not like that! Laws are adopted without any dialogue. All we have left is to blame each other. Still in the spirit that Sester was in favour last week, but this week it's against how it can be! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U73	We'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U74	If the whole content debate in this hall is such that we point fingers at each other and say, 'You did this last month! " To which they answer: " But I have done nothing at all. ', then forgive me, this is not a normal parliamentary signal. We've kind of run away from it. Today we also have a second draft on the agenda, which does not bring happiness or joy to anyone. It does not bring happiness or joy to the state budget or to the culture of dealing with drafts, nor, in fact, to the respected members of society who will be directly affected by this law. I therefore want to confirm with certainty that the Estonian Central Party, which is by its very nature a party that favours and supports Estonian small business, cannot support such a law in any way. Perhaps in this protest we also have a little bit of the fact that we are throwing the child out the window with the washing water, but in any case such legislation and cynicism is not acceptable to a small, well-inspiring small country of the 21st century, mostly one-to-one, or within three minutes to a community that is familiar with one another. I sincerely hope that the liberal Reform Party, which has been the hegemon of our existence for the last 15 years, will also be able to correct its behaviour. I only like one thing: Taavi Kõivas has changed his name and behaves just like Andrus Ansip. I'm happy for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U75	Remo Holsmer, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U76	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'll tell the Remargina Aivar Riisalu that this bill doesn't concern... Aivar, do you copy? Aivar, this draft does not need the coordination of the European Commission; these drafts will come to the debate later today. We have before us, at third reading, the Act amending the VAT Act, which was not announced by the President of the Republic at the end of the year. Discussions on the implementation of the electronic annex to the VAT return have been before the government, the Riigikogu and the public since October last year, i.e. more than seven months in total. When the President sent the law back to us at the end of the year, he stated in his decision that the aim of reducing the amount of money missing from the state budget due to VAT fraud and ensuring fair competition between economic operators is undisputedly constitutional and the size of the so-called "VAT hole" confirms the need to take action to prevent VAT fraud. The president also said that a detailed analysis and a detailed explanation of how the implementation of the annex to the VAT return would contribute to reducing the VAT hole should be provided when the draft was discussed again. The president also proposed to clarify the regulation relating to the liberal professions and suggested that consideration be given to the period within which large retail companies can adapt their customer bases and accounting software to possible changes. He pointed out that it was necessary to clarify the compatibility of the proposed regulation with the EU VAT Directive. These comments have been taken into account and the explanatory memorandum to the draft before you contains a detailed explanation of the options for combating tax fraud and the effects of the proposed changes. In addition to the VAT return, professionals (advocates, notaries, bailiffs) do not need to record the details of invoices issued and received for transactions and operations covered by the obligation of professional or professional secrecy under law. The Tax and Customs Board is granted the right to apply temporary derogations to companies that need additional time to carry out IT developments. Therefore, companies will be given the right not to submit a declaration until 20 June 2015, which is why we are talking in certain cases about a transitional period longer than a year. As a result of the proposal by retail companies, until 20 January 2016 the right to submit invoice data in aggregated form on the VAT return supplement will be granted. This will give companies additional time to make more complex developments, if necessary, in order to be able to submit billing information on a transaction-to-transaction basis. The section on the amendment of the Accounting Act, in which the President saw a possible contradiction with the VAT Directive of the European Union, is deleted from the Act. These are the amendments voted into the law by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and supported by the Riigikogu plenary at second reading. They have made this law considerably better and clearer compared to the law adopted by the Riigikogu at the end of last year and sent back to us by the President. The purpose of the law before you is to create an honest tax environment and equal rules of the game. This law is in the interests of businesses. The transition to a new declaration system will take time and may entail additional costs, but I hope businesses will understand why the state is asking for such a return. Let us put it even in the context that the government coalition supports a reduction in labour taxes next year, in particular a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions of 0.6%. The impact of the reduction in labour taxes on the state budget is 32 million euros. I call on all political parties represented in the Riigikogu to support this law, including the Centre Party and good colleagues from the IRL Group... Can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U77	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U78	... who, at the end of the year, supported this change, but for some reason in the past month has made a 180-degree turn in their positions. You are talking about the need to fight the tax hole, but you have criticised this law without offering an alternative in the course of the procedure and have not proposed any amendments. This is not a constructive approach. The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the Act amending the VAT Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U79	Since Aivar Riisalu was named in the speech, he has the right to reply. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U80	Thank you. I wanted to draw the attention of a good colleague to the fact that I made it clear in my speech that we have two drafts in the proceedings today, in which the correctness of the procedure has left to be desired, one of which is contrary to the VAT Directive of the European Union. I therefore assure you that I understand very clearly that the draft currently on the agenda is not against it, but the second draft I mentioned is. So my knowledge is fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U81	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the speaker will be Tõnis Palts. Please! Tõnis Palts asked for more time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U82	Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves! I have some depressing news for you. You're being deceived. You did not declare a law amending the VAT Act because it was disproportionate. Now the details have been changed, but experts believe that not a single piece of paper has been reduced by the main 'opportunity'. In particular, all business organisations claim that the direct burden on the general government and the private sector resulting from the implementation of this law is greater than the expected revenue in the form of a better tax collection. The authors of the Act expect the so-called tax hole to fall by 30 million euros a year. Business organisations complain that the additional burden may amount to up to EUR 80 million per year on the basis of a pessimistic estimate, while on the basis of an optimistic estimate only EUR 30 million. In accounting terms, this means that the costs go far beyond the revenues. There is another unimportant nuance: this pointless work will create a new super-data base. We can say that it is well protected, but it is not a question of protection. This is at risk to a democratic society that values individual freedoms and values of society. It is also disproportionate to optimism that our databases are reliable and that all people who use them are loyal. Snowden cracked the FBI data. Aivar Sõerdi was released in 2003 because his subordinates systematically leaked data and went through tax databases. By the way, the Court of Justice did s. a Decision of 8 April repealing the Data Retention Directive. According to the Court, this directive is an intensive violation of the fundamental right to respect for private life and the protection of personal data and is not necessarily necessary. In the context of the law under discussion, the Court's conclusion is as follows. This directive runs counter to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union because it requires that everyone's data be retained, regardless of whether a person is a potentially criminal, although the Court does not consider it necessary to trace all the citizens of the European Union to combat crimes. In this context, the collection of data on all transactions by honest entrepreneurs in order to localise a small number of criminals may also be disproportionate. Mr President, So, what does the government want to do, to sum it up? According to specialists, Estonian entrepreneurs are put into work, resulting in only a dangerous database in the balance sheet of society. Mr President, I can comfort you a little. Perhaps the idea of this law is not so bad, maybe entrepreneurs are wrong, maybe they are really in most of the crooks, as basically the Reform Party has expressed in the identity of the Minister of Finance. Maybe they're stupid and they don't understand what happiness they want to bring to their yard in the form of a better competitive environment. But the problem is, despite your recommendation, the Minister of Finance did not bother to carry out a proper impact analysis. That would have been possible, and I can prove how easily that would have been possible. This demonstrates the arrogance of the Minister of Finance against you and against all of us, and especially against entrepreneurs. Mr President, Today we are also going to deal with the tax laws on cars. As a result of these laws, the tax burden on businesses will increase by EUR 47 million per year. Yeah, you heard right, the Reform Party just wants to burden business overnight with that amount. The coalition of the Reform Party and Social Democrats will cause additional losses to Estonian entrepreneurship of nearly 100 million euros per year. To compensate, they offer to set up a business day. You know, Mr President, even during the Soviet era, fishermen saw an eel at other times than on the day of fishermen, but during the interim government, I think the business day is the only day that reformists do not bully. Mr President, Don't let the crooks run you over! Nothing other than fraud can be called when a four-page explanatory memorandum was replaced by an 80-page explanatory memorandum simply to hide that the actual impact analysis has not been carried out. Please let this work be done! Nothing's gonna happen if the law doesn't come out this time. True, there is a risk that EUR 30 million will not be collected, but there are also disputes about whether this amount is still EUR 30 million. This is less than the error in drawing up the state budget. At best, however, we will prevent the bomb hanged on the neck of business for tens of years, as well as the creation of a landmine, or superdatabase, which threatens personal freedoms. Finally, I appeal to the business community. The Prime Minister and previous speakers on behalf of the Reform Party have accused the IRL as if our views had changed. Ladies and gentlemen, reformers! You know very well that most of the IRL Group was actually against this law. We agreed that this law would be renegotiated in the new year. In order to prevent the coalition from falling apart and to avoid a socialist turnaround, we were really in favour of this law. There is now a single party in Estonia that is doing the business of Estonia for the benefit of entrepreneurs. It's an IRL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U83	Since Aivar Sõerd was named in the speech, he has the right to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U84	Thank you. A good colleague, Tõnis Palts, recalled the time when he was the Minister of Finance for five and a half months and I was the Director General of the Tax Administration at the time. It is true that it took him five and a half months to fight against me and the IRS. But let me remind you of the good practice of not waving your fists after a fight. As regards the allegations and accusations raised here again, I would remind you that they have been completely refuted by the judgment. The order of Tõnis Palts, then Minister of Finance, on the dismissal of the Director General of the Tax Administration, has also been declared illegal by a judgment. Once again, you don't wrestle your fists after a fight. That's good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U85	Dear Tõnis Palts! When someone's name is called a speaker, they have the right to reply. If you're gonna tell me the line, you're gonna have to wait. Maybe you're lucky and someone's calling your name. But for now, take yourself off the list. [[Laughter.]] On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Rannar Vassilyev will be speaking on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U86	Thank you. I promise that I will not offer the opportunity to start this dialogue. But now I'm gonna brief you on this bill. It has been dealt with here for a long time, and these topics have been unraveled one way or the other. Many of the topics have received sufficient attention and insight, but I am going over them briefly. In the autumn, when this bill was being dealt with in this Chamber, there were four main problems that were raised, in my opinion. Firstly, a possible contradiction with the VAT Directive of the European Union. Secondly, the rights granted to the so-called liberal professions by other laws and their possible interference. Thirdly, the question was raised as to whether the undertakings would be able to submit VAT returns in new form within the time limit prescribed by the law. Fourthly, there was the problem of whether all this burden on businesses, undoubtedly requiring time and financial resources, is proportionate to the benefits of the bill for society. As far as the first three issues are concerned, the Social Democrats, among others, drew attention to them in this Chamber, some of whom were against this law and most of them did not vote. These issues were also referred to by the President in his decision, the content of which was that the law should not be declared. It can be said that the first three issues have now been answered, and the law is certainly much better. Possible contradictions with EU legislation, as well as concerns about the liberal professions, have been lost. Companies will also have the opportunity to request an extension to the new system if they see that it takes them a lot of time and money. One question remains. It is also likely to depend on who makes his point, because this issue is somewhat subjective. The explanatory memorandum is now much more comprehensive and contains analysis, with its annexes over 100 pages. I think it can also be said that he is much more meaningful than the previous explanatory statement. But is it enough to say that this is the most sensible and optimal way to combat potential VAT fraud in the European Union's judicial area where we are located? Secondly, will the expected return if the tax environment and tax receipts improve and the expected improvement in the competitive conditions of companies outweigh the additional burden on businesses? I think that's the main thing that needs to be decided in this Chamber. It is likely to be analysed by the publisher of the law. The Social Democratic Party Group considers that rather yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U87	Thank you. The Centre Party Group has already exercised its right to participate in the negotiations, but Mikhail Stalnukhin has a procedural question. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U88	Thank you. I would remind you that there is no such thing as a procedural question. But under Article 74 (2) of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I want an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of the hearing. In particular, § 70 of the same Act, 'Admission', paragraph 1, says: 'If the person of a member of the Riigikogu or the views contained in his speech are concerned in another speech, the President of the sitting may authorise this member of the Riigikogu to speak in response. ' I'm not a fan of my colleague Palts, but it would be interesting to know what he wanted to answer Mr Sõerdi. Secondly, this paragraph does not mention the name, it does not say that the name must have sounded. It reads 'The identity of a member of the Riigikogu or the positions contained in his statement'. We're talking about positions. I would ask for an explanation why Mr Palts did not get the floor to speak in response.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U89	Because his name was not mentioned in the speech or in the speech, but was mentioned in the address. The Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu have been interpreted in this way. Otherwise, the two men, the one who worked, and the other one who fired him would have to argue with each other until 10:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu have been interpreted in such a way that when someone mentions someone's name in a speech, that person has the right to speak back. This address must be considered as a reception, which will no longer be followed by another address. That's why it's written in the law. Helir-Valdor Seeder, I understand you also have a procedural question. Very nice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U90	Thank you. I have a wish to have a clarification on your interpretation. Let me get this straight. If you're calling a colleague from the remote, they're gonna give the floor to a colleague, but on the spot, you can say whatever you want without a 'no' address? Is that interpretation accurate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U91	We'll read together if we have to. I'm gonna take my glasses off so the lines don't get messy. Paragraph 70, Statement of Objection: 'If the person of a member of the Riigikogu or the views contained in his or her speech are concerned in another speech, the President of the sitting may authorise this member of the Riigikogu to speak in response. During the discussion of the agenda question, the President of the sitting may authorise a member of the Riigikogu to speak only once. There are two minutes to receive. " It's a reception. [[Question about the floor.]] But that's how it's gonna work when someone else's name comes in. Okay. Mikhail Stalnukhin, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U92	Thank you very much. I wanted to clarify what you just read. How can Sõerd and Palts talk to each other until 10:00 in the morning when you read yourself that there is only one answer possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U93	If my good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, does not mind, I will answer this question later in order to prevent the following avalanche of questions. I can imagine how this can be done, but it does not concern the procedure for this draft. The speeches of the political groups have been made. Despite everything, the commission has proposed to put the law to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Act amending the VAT Act, which has not been proclaimed by the President of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 45 votes to 30, with no abstentions. The Act amending the VAT Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U94	The next item is the second reading of Draft 638 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please report to Peep Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U95	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 5 May. One amendment had been received by the deadline. According to this, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposes to appoint Aivar Rosenberg as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control in place of Andre Sepa as a member of the Riigikogu. Some technical and linguistic clarifications were also made to the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided that today this draft decision could be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U96	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I will open a round of speeches and speeches. There's no call. Let us examine the table of amendments. One amendment to the draft 638 has been tabled. This has been presented by the Reform Party Group and fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The commission has proposed the adoption of a draft of 638 decisions. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' by the Social Democratic Party Group, draft 638. Please take a stand and vote. There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision as a decision, and there are no votes against or abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U97	Agenda item 6 is the second reading of draft 639 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Peep Aru, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U98	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of this draft also took place on 5 May. No amendments to the draft had been tabled. The Commission mainly addressed minor linguistic and technical improvements and agreed with them. The Commission is also consensually of the view that today draft 639 can be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U99	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 639. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' by the Social Democratic Party Group' draft 639. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision as 639 decisions, no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision of the Riigikogu amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U100	Agenda item 7 is the second reading of draft 640 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend 'Constitution of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The Commission's waitress is Peep Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The second reading debate on this draft decision was also on our Committee on Constitutional Affairs' very close agenda on 5 May. No amendments to the draft were received. We reviewed a linguistic specification and approved it. We are consensually of the view that today this draft decision could be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U102	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There are no negotiating requests. The Commission's proposal is that the draft should be put to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' of the Riigikogu, presented by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union', draft 640. Please take a stand and vote. There are 48 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft decision as a decision, no respondents or abstentions. Amending the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions' 640 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U103	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending and implementing the law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy and the law on law enforcement initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that the purpose of the draft law 628 is to bring national law into line with the new European Union law. One important change is that when applying for direct payments, the current requirement that this land should be in good agricultural condition in 2003 will be abolished and direct payments can be applied for from this year onwards for all agricultural land actually used. The remaining changes are rather tidy and technical in the legal area. I will give you a brief overview of the current procedure of draft law 628. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 April and on 16 April the draft was in the Riigikogu's plenary session at first reading. The first reading was completed. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft again at its meeting on 21 April. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, took part in this meeting as the representative of the initiator. The Commission examined two amendments prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. As there was a need to amend the law on the amendment and implementation of the Law on Law Enforcement in the interests of legal regularity, the first amendment was supplemented by an amendment to the law which amends it and gives effect to the amendment. In this context, the title of the law also had to be changed. This is now the 'Law amending and implementing the Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy and the Law on Law Enforcement' of the European Union. The second amendment clarifies the fixing of aid rates for school fruit and vegetables. Both amendments were supported by consensus by the Commission. Once again, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft law at its meeting on 5 May. At this meeting, it was noted that the deadline for submitting amendments, 23 April, members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not submit proposals. The Commission's procedural decisions are as follows: We propose to conclude the second reading of draft 628. When the second reading of the draft is completed today, we have a proposal to put the draft to the final vote tomorrow, 8 May, and to adopt it as a law. The Commission made its decisions in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U105	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments to draft 628 have been tabled; we need to revise them. The author of the first amendment is the Committee on Rural Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Rural Affairs Committee and the Steering Committee has taken this amendment fully into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading should be completed. The second reading of Bill 628 is complete. I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U106	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur is Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'll start with the most important thing. According to § 10 (1) of the current Pre-school Children's Institution Act, local governments are obliged to create the possibility for all children of 1.5 to 7 years of age living in their territory to visit the child institution of the service area. Due to the rapid growth in the population of cities and suburban areas, this requirement, as we all know, has not been met in quite a number of municipalities, namely 21 municipalities as a whole. If we have a participation rate of more than 90% in pre-school institutions for children aged 4 to 7 years, which is very positive, then for children aged 1.5 to 3 years the picture is much sadder. According to official statistics, 10 to 55% of all children between 1.5 and 3 years of age expect a day-care position. According to surveys conducted in local governments, nearly 90% of all children of this age actually need this place. As of September 2013, 5338 children aged 1.5 to 3 were in the order of the kindergarten place. This is not even an educational concern, rather a socio-economic problem. The fact that parents do not have a safe deposit of their children while they are at work hampers the return of parents, especially mothers, to the labour market, makes it difficult to reconcile working life and family life and, ultimately, will certainly have a negative impact on the development of our economy. The aim of the most important point of the draft is to resolve the completely abnormal situation that has arisen as a result of the shortage of childcare facilities. We do this in such a way that we give the local government an additional opportunity to fulfil this obligation. We allow children aged between 1.5 and 3 to be replaced by childcare facilities. This will give local authorities greater flexibility so that they can ensure that they have a kindergarten place. This practice is also common in Nordic countries, Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark, where childcare is replaced by childcare at a younger age. According to the draft, the municipality can replace the kindergarten place with a childcare place only with the consent of the parent. So the obligation of the municipality to offer a kindergarten place to those who wish to do so remains. In any case, from the age of four onwards at the latest, the child must be given a place in the pre-school institution, i.e. the kindergarten, at the request of the parent. The draft does not impose additional financial obligations on local authorities, as they are in fact also currently obliged to provide a kindergarten place for all children. Local authorities will continue to be able to consider whether to create new places by building new kindergartens or to support the private sector to a slightly greater extent in order to ensure that childcare facilities are available. I note that the creation of childcare facilities is more affordable for local authorities. While setting up and maintaining one kindergarten place costs an average of EUR 3000 per year, this amount is EUR 1000 per year for childcare. Therefore, we allow local governments to have an obligation to provide a kindergarten or childcare place also to cope better financially. As this is an option for local authorities in this draft, the parent's financial participation in childcare services, which is currently completely unregulated, certainly needs to be regulated. According to the draft, as in the case of kindergartens, in the case of municipal care services, the parent's own participation rate would be up to 20% of the minimum wage. Thus, when the law enters into force, a situation could not arise where the local government supports childcare, but the parent's own contribution to it is several hundred euros, as it is in many places today. The draft leaves a wide range of opportunities for local authorities to take advantage of this possibility. For example, after the entry into force of the Act, Tartu has planned to start offering municipal childcare facilities in order to solve the problem of lack of kindergarten places. In some other places, it is reasonable to agree with existing private childcare facilities on a higher level of support in order to ensure that the childcare facility is available to the parent and that its participation is limited. A number of questions were raised during the preliminary procedure for this draft. In addition to how local authorities will take advantage of this opportunity and provide childcare facilities, the question arose of what specific requirements and conditions are in place for childcare and childcare facilities to ensure the well-being and safety of children. It should be noted that childcare is not an arbitrary service; this service is regulated by the Social Welfare Act. Childcare can only be provided by qualified babysitters with a professional certificate. The development of the professional standard has taken into account all aspects supporting the development of the child in order to ensure the well-being, safety and age-appropriate development of the child in the provision of childcare services. It is certainly appropriate to discuss more widely the extent to which it could be considered in the future to harmonise the conditions and requirements of the first age group of pre-school institutions with those of childcare. This has been discussed together in a working group that has developed a broader concept of early childhood education. I think these discussions should continue. This should include discussing whether children aged 1.5 to 3 should be taught on the basis of a curriculum or whether it is possible to do so according to the professional standard of the babysitter. These discussions should go on. In conclusion, I believe that we could achieve harmonisation of levels. At the same time, we have considered it reasonable to come up with the first part of this draft or concept now, before the whole concept of early childhood education has been put together, discussed or adopted, in order to really more actively offer opportunities to solve the problem of the shortage of kindergarten places. This is an abnormal situation that has existed over the years, which, as has been said, hinders the return of a very large number of people to the labour market. With regard to the funding of local authorities, it can be noted that during the new EU budget period, a significant amount of the European Social Fund has been planned for the creation of childcare and kindergarten places in local governments, with a total of around EUR 6.5 million being planned for the creation of 1200 childcare places. In addition to other measures, we hope to create around 3000 kindergartens or childcare places from the next budget period of the European Union, which will allow the queues to be completely completed. But as a first measure, we give local authorities a little more flexibility so that they can better cope with their task. There are two other points in the draft that deserve to be mentioned. First of all, according to the draft, children in one family who share their residence address would be entitled to a place in the same childcare facility. It's a known problem for everyone. Secondly, we have laid down the organisation of the work of the staff of the child institution, which is to say, at the level of the law, we want to lay down how many adults should be present for one child at the child institution at all times. This does not lead to an increase in the number of kindergarten teachers, but to a review of staff working arrangements in certain places. Not only is it necessary to ensure that the necessary number of workers are employed in a specific childcare facility, but there must be an appropriate number of adults working with children at all times. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 September 2014. It is designed to enable local authorities to plan as soon as possible how to provide childcare facilities for the new system. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U108	There are questions for the initiator of the bill. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Pre-school Children's Act is amended by three paragraphs. I'll start with the third paragraph. Please explain to the members of the Riigikogu and to those who may later read the verbatim report what this third paragraph means in reality! For example, the working hours of a group. Suppose only four children are present at 6:00 p.m. Does that mean I put four groups of kids together, there's 16 of them, and there's two teachers or teachers for them? Or does this mean that it is in this group's quarters that, despite the presence of four children, one adult must remain? What does this cut mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U110	I do not think that this draft law should limit the flexibility of groups for any period of time. The main objective, however, is for the number of adults to be present for a specific number of children. The problem has been that, in some cases, there have been too few adults present for children, but no one has been able to complain because the law has so far not clearly laid down it. I think it's what kindergartens' internal organisation is, a little bit different. I guess it doesn't always have to be fixed to the end of the law level. However, it is important that when children from different groups are put together, the number of adults is such that their safety and well-being are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U111	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This bill contains a very positive provision according to which children of the same family who share their residence address are entitled to a kindergarten place in the same childcare facility. I think it's very natural. How different, the children of one family to one kindergarten! But I read in the explanatory memorandum that there are still problems in the larger cities, mentioned in Tallinn, and children from the same family must be placed in different childcare facilities. Can you tell us what local authorities have this problem and how extensive it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U113	After all, the essence of the problem is that we have a shortage of kindergarten places at all. If it weren't for the shortage, the problem would have been solved in itself. When creating the order of kindergarten places, it is also a kind of fair principle that if the children of one family are placed in the queue at different times, they are there in different places. That is fair to those who have been put in line before. I do not think it is possible to blame those municipalities who have not always been able to implement the principle that children of one family in one kindergarten. But I think it's definitely in the public interest that children in one family can go to one kindergarten. This is beneficial both for the family and for traffic management, for example, because parents should not take children to two kindergartens in the morning and bring them back from there again in the evening. But I would stress that, in principle, our aim should not be to regulate how the queues are structured, but to ensure that there is no shortage of nursery places at all. I hope that, with the support of this draft and of the European Union's instruments, which will be launched at the same time, we will be able to resolve this problem so that we no longer have a shortage of nursery places in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U114	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U115	I hope that all local authorities will be happy to accept this, because it will help to fulfil one very important obligation, namely that we have all children kept and educated. I don't think the local authorities are interested in this. With the draft, we are giving municipalities a more flexible and cheaper way of doing this. There are certainly some technical questions here on how to organise it exactly. Municipalities have made some more critical comments at the final stage, as we have not yet agreed on all the details. It is up to the local government to decide exactly how it is organised. A certain nervousness here is understandable to me, but together, let's try to solve these problems and discuss how all these things are going to happen in practice. I do not know any local authorities who would say that they do not support this approach in principle. As you know, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have agreed to this draft. Both have also been very actively involved in drafting the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U116	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the rooms where the children will be kept. Children can be kept, for example, in my home as a parent or in a babysitter's apartment. But whose means do these rooms apply to the conditions that children can be held there in the first place? Who's gonna fix these rooms, who's gonna build the ventilation and lighting? Whose money is that made of?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U118	Let us start again with the fact that the local government has always been obliged to provide a kindergarten place for the child. We are now enabling the local government to find ways to replace the kindergarten place for children between 1.5 and 1.3 years of age with a childcare place that is more favourable to the municipality than the creation of a kindergarten place. How will it be financed? As I said, parents can participate in financing these places, up to 20% of the minimum wage. The remaining part should be financed by the local authority. As I was referring to, there are several ways in which this is done. One is that you can rent rooms and clean them up from local government funds. This is what has been done in Tartu. Another option is to conclude an agreement with existing private childcare. In fact, there have been agreements with private childcare to some extent. The question now arises as to how to conclude them in such a way as to guarantee all legal requirements, for example, regarding parental ownership. On the other hand, we do not, as you know, exclude the provision of childcare services in someone's quarters. It's still possible. In addition to local authorities or legal entities, this service may be provided by self-employed persons, these facilities are available.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U119	Question two, Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Do you consider it possible to extend this commendable principle that children in one family have the right to a place in the same childcare facility to basic schools as well? In the opinion of parents and for society as a whole, it is extremely irrational when parents have to take the parent child to a school in another grade and the younger child to a different edge of the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U121	That is an appropriate question. I think it's worth considering. There's a big first-class competition in these schools where there's a problem like this. Here we come to another and very difficult issue. I have always believed that we should rather ensure a very strong level in all Estonian primary schools so that this type of curved mirrors is less competitive in primary schools. Then, I think, everyone's got a place to go. Perhaps, as in the case of pre-school institutions, we want there to be no kindergarten queues, and then there would be no problem guaranteeing the children of one family a place in the same kindergarten institution, so in the case of schools, I think the system might become a little more egalitarian in this sense, so that all parents would no longer want to put their children in schools in the centre of Tallinn. I think that this is certainly an appropriate question, but in a slightly different context.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U122	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, We made compulsory education in Estonian for children in Russian kindergartens a few years ago from the age of three. This draft refers to childcare for children aged 1 to 4 years. What about learning the Estonian language of children who are in childcare rather than in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U124	That's a good question. I think that this should certainly be clarified and discussed separately in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U125	Question two, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U126	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I still don't understand why a childcare facility is cheaper than a kindergarten place. If the rooms in which these children are held have to meet the same conditions, what makes it cheaper? Wouldn't it be wise to build kindergartens? Why are we dealing with these pseudo-problems? That doesn't make any sense. This is some sort of temporary solution, on which we spend a lot of resources, but the objective is not actually achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U127	'Temporary solution' is the correct expression because the lack of kindergarten places is also a temporary problem. I may not be able to find this place right now, but I think it should be on page 11 of the explanatory statement that in about six years' time, since 2017, the demographic curve is going to slow down. So when we think about economic viability, if we were to build whole kindergartens that have been underutilised in six, seven or eight years, we certainly cannot be considered a very reasonable investment. In childcare, things can be organised more flexibly. I have already mentioned Tartu, who has come the most farthest from this plan. It is planned to temporarily rent rooms, these rooms will be cleaned up, and when the need for them decreases, they will be returned to the owner. It is also understandable that the flexibility that we are creating with it for the budgets. But maybe I didn't quite make it clear at first. I have not said that these conditions are equal. I said that these conditions are different and therefore the price is different. However, different circumstances do not mean that children are poorly cared for. On the contrary, they are kept very well there. But I was referring to the fact that, in the long term, we could come to an understanding that it would be necessary to harmonise the conditions for lower-level kindergarten or, more specifically, lower-level pre-school childcare facilities and childcare facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U128	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U129	Thank you. I'll be more specific. The draft law gives local governments the opportunity to replace the kindergarten place of a 1.5 to 3 year old child with childcare service. If in the future, with the consent of the parent, it will be possible to replace the kindergarten with childcare, please explain what should motivate local authorities to create more kindergarten places!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U130	Thank you. As I said, we could, in the long run, reach this concept, which would harmonise the lower stages of kindergarten and childcare. However, a parent may still require a kindergarten place and the local government is still obliged to ensure it. However, as we have seen in practice, simply imposing an obligation in the law will not solve any problems unless there is a sanction. It has always been a duty for local authorities to ensure that kindergarten places are provided, but they have not done so. I certainly do not think that we should start imposing sanctions, on the contrary, we better find ways in which we can help the local governments that have been most affected by migration and demographic change within Estonia at national level. Like I said, we can help them in two ways. We are helping with the European Union's instruments to create new kindergarten and childcare facilities and giving a more flexible opportunity for municipalities to fulfil their obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U131	Thank you very much. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, A few years ago, we had a plan like "Children's Place for Every Child." Is this bill that we're dealing with here today really about creating a kindergarten place for every child, or is it some kind of stepping stone? What happened to the plan anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U133	This plan turned out to be an economic crisis. But we shouldn't go this far in time. I think that more important than what is called a specific plan is that we can solve the problem. The problem is quite clearly there. This problem is the shortage of kindergarten places in 21 municipalities in particular and among children aged 1.5 to 3. As I said, over 90% of older children attend pre-school facilities. So you can call it whatever you want, but in principle, the state has provided for European Union funds to help local authorities build childcare and kindergarten places. On the other hand, with this draft, we give local authorities more flexibility so that they can better fulfil their obligations themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U134	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U135	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let me get this straight. The provisional government has a temporary problem and a temporary solution. You stressed that the birth rate would start to decrease in 2017. You can probably plan how many children are born in Estonia. It'll be a shame if the birth rate goes down. Haven't you, on the contrary, thought that all of this could be non-temporary?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U136	I haven't made those predictions. I am certainly a much worse forecaster than the people who have prepared these forecasts. Unfortunately, despite the fact that I certainly do not approve of these demographic processes, no one has ever had the power to make them any more positive. We can discuss family policy more broadly. As everyone knows, the government also plans to deal vigorously with family matters. Children's benefits will rise from next year, and child poverty will be actively addressed. If we think about what, in addition to a low income, is the important reason why few children are born in Estonia, it is certainly the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. This has been highlighted as a reason by a large number of parents. Hopefully, we will also have a positive impact on demographic trends if we can provide a childcare or kindergarten place for everyone. For God's sake, if the opportunities that will be created in childcare and kindergartens in the coming years are also in maximum use in 2020 and 2022, and if there is even a need to create more, I am not sad about it, rather the opposite. We'll create more opportunities if there's any need for it. It is clear, however, that the government must be guided in its activities by the knowledge and forecasts of specialists. It would be irresponsible to question them. This does not mean that these projections will not be more positive in the coming years. I see no contradiction between this draft and more positive demographic indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U137	Thank you very much. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U138	Thank you. Since this problem is urgent and has been up for a long time, I find that the sooner we can bring relief to this kindergarten order problem, the better. In my opinion, it makes sense to move forward with this draft within the current framework, to try to make it better and to see what can be pointed out more specifically in the draft text. In parallel, as the Minister emphasised, the whole concept of early childhood education should also be dealt with further. Since this is such a long-term and time-consuming process, I believe that we should move forward quickly with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U139	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. I was out of the hall for a few minutes, and I'm sorry if this has already been discussed. Did you discuss in the Commission that childcare does not apply to the rules that apply to kindergartens? This means that the child care group can be on the 9th or 16th floor, for example, and all area standards are quite free. This service can actually become quite derisive. In any case, my hometown specialists have claimed that they have looked at this bill. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U141	Thank you. I'll come back to the contents of my report. Indeed, we in the Commission touched on the similarities and differences between childcare and kindergarten. We have recognised that kindergarten activities are based on a national curriculum and that childcare requirements are regulated in the Social Welfare Act. It cannot be said that these requirements are very loose and that there is no guarantee of quality or safety or development of children in childcare. Both kindergarten and childcare ensure the development of children, from the social, physical, and cognitive, or cognitive, side, as I mentioned earlier. Many childcare facilities, such as municipal childcare, work with kindergartens to provide children with both music and exercise activities. In the Commission, young parents also pointed out that sometimes a child care provider has the opportunity to pay even more attention to children, as the number of children is lower there. So at times, the situation may be in the interest of babysitting. However, we generally acknowledged in the Commission that childcare and childcare in the age group we are talking about could, in terms of pedagogical and other activities, be aligned, and so that quality does not deteriorate, but rather improve.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U142	Thank you. Please, Etti Kagarov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U143	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'll be more specific. You mentioned that the requirements for childcare are set out in the Social Welfare Act, and you pointed out that the local government can also impose requirements. Is there a duplication of requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U144	Thank you. I was thinking, in particular, that when a local authority organises a procurement in order to provide childcare, it can set out its requirements in the terms of the procurement, which it considers necessary. Among those who participate and meet these requirements, the local government can find out exactly what is right for it. Of course, all the requirements laid down in the Social Welfare Act will always apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U145	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Lauri Swan! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mailis Reps, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are processing the draft law on pre-school children's institution in the Riigikogu for a while today. I must admit, to my great sadness, that this procedure does not go in the direction that kindergarten teachers expect. It is clear that today, kindergarten teachers and perhaps slightly more informed parents expect confidence that, based on their higher education, kindergarten teachers will receive better pay conditions and will be interested in continuing training, and that kindergartens will continue to be very strongly involved in the provision of education. That's what the percentages are for. More than 96% of children are currently in kindergarten. So almost all of our children are getting very well prepared for school. I'm sure kindergarten teachers are interested in the length of leave, as they still have much shorter leave than school teachers. They are certainly interested in clarifying what has made their lives more difficult since September last year, and they are looking forward to clarifying how many hours out of 35 hours the teacher has to work in the group to use the rest of the time to prepare for, for example, development discussions. We're coming to the bill. What are we regulating? We should not really regulate anything on the basis of Bill 641. At the moment, if the local government is unable to guarantee a place to eat or to provide a day-care centre, it is possible to offer the parent, as an alternative, compensation for childcare services at the rate set by the council decision. The range varies. There are municipalities in Harju County where this is done on a very large scale, and there are towns where it is done a little more modestly, with a rate of just over 100 euros in Tallinn. But that doesn't mean that a parent wouldn't take advantage of the opportunity to put his child in kindergarten. I communicate with a lot of parents. I can assure you that, despite all the positive sentences you have heard from your colleagues, I personally do not know any parents in Tallinn who would not have taken their child away from private day care or private day care if the municipal day care centre had been freed. So the parent's attitude towards baby-sitting is very positive until he gets a place for the child in municipal day care. Our first objective must be to create more kindergarten places and, after that, maybe to increase childcare allowance. But if someone is excluded from the order of kindergarten, the worst is that it will happen until the age of four, and it is said that the situation has been resolved because the child is enrolled somewhere in child care, it is certainly not acceptable for parents. Now the second thing we see in Bill 641. Pre-school education begins from the age of four. This is unacceptable in terms of education. European statistics count as the start of the third year of education. Under no circumstances can we accept that a child should not be required to carry out systematic education before he or she is four years old. I believe that the current Minister for Education and Science will also make adjustments quite quickly in his statements today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U147	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U148	Today he said that he felt that children aged 1.5 to 3 did not have to do systematic education. Go more to kindergartens, see what preparation our kindergarten teachers are and what they actually do there. Through the game and systemic activities, the specific characteristics of children, as well as their special needs, are identified, and their very different talents are supported. If a child is discovered at a very early stage and the child is supported on an appropriate level, he or she may be able to study with normal children in a normal class. These are things that we have been able to hold and supplement for 20 years. Let's not break this system just so we can say that the kindergarten queues are gone. One more thing I want to talk about. It is very nice to use politically well-sounding sentences. The second and third paragraphs are essentially completely pointless if we do not try to explain what they mean legally or technically. It is very nice to tell all parents that children in one family have the right to attend the same kindergarten. But what does that really mean? This means that we must somehow resolve a situation where the first children of the family have fewer rights than third or fourth children. This situation has been discussed, for example, in the case of Tallinn, but I believe it is also more widely. The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that children must have equal rights regardless of the order of birth. Of course, ideally, we want no kindergarten queues. But in the centre of Tallinn, right here near the Olympic Hotel or Riigikogu, kindergartens are very popular. If this paragraph is to be interpreted in favour of siblings, then it can be said that the first children of families in the city centre will probably not have a thing for the next five years. Is that what we really want? We need to discuss this before we get to the next readings. Staff also raises questions. Who are these adults, and how many have been taken into account? What does the third cut mean in reality? These are the questions that will be asked to us tomorrow. But, in summary, I can say that the Centre Party Group discussed the draft law amending the pre-school child institution law in a very thorough manner 641 and found that, if this draft is in this form and such proposals have been made, there is no way we can continue the procedure. We propose to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U149	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I looked at the coordination between the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Union of Estonian Cities and I had a question. If there are more responsibilities, more resources will be needed, whether or not. You said you'd see your parents' wallet as a resource. In addition, municipalities are in very different situations. Can you tell me which municipalities need more resources? Maybe some of them don't. That's one side of the question. The other side is about specialists. You said you had to be trained specialists. Can you tell me how many we have under this law as a cover, one hundred percent, or are they missing? If there is a shortage, how many more of them do we need and how much resources do we need for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U151	Thank you. As far as the parents' wallet is concerned, as I said, we are actually making this legislation more accessible to parents, on the contrary, precisely because 20% of the minimum wage is charged and, in general, childcare is more accessible to parents. You also talked about local government money and that there would be additional responsibilities. I must stress once again that, according to § 10 (1) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, all local governments still have the obligation to provide a kindergarten place for all children aged 1.5 to 7 years. The commitments will not be increased, on the contrary, local authorities will be given more flexibility in the organisation of the system. In addition, with the support of European Union funds, the state will contribute to solving the problem of the shortage of kindergarten places in the municipalities where this problem is greatest. I think that the 21 municipalities, where this problem is the most acute, are known to everyone. These are primarily rural municipalities located near Tallinn and Tallinn, but also, to some extent, rural municipalities around Tartu and Tallinn. This problem mostly affects them. You asked about the specialists. That is a very good question, and I am happy to clarify it. I hope I understand the question correctly. How many, for example, are there now babysitters who have been trained according to professional standards? I don't have the statistics here, but we can definitely find out. I must emphasise once again that, from 1 September 2014, municipal authorities will be given the legal opportunity to start providing childcare instead of kindergarten for 1.5 to 3 years in the age group. This does not mean that all local governments are about to do so from 1 September. It will happen in time. For example, Tartu has already made great plans to establish municipal childcare. They must also be looking for and training specialists. So this process will take place over a long period of time. It is certainly not the case that on 1 September everyone has an obligation to provide childcare, although there are not enough specialists. I do not think there is a risk, because this new model is slowly starting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U152	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have a purely technical question. In the current Pre-school Childhood Act, the youngest group in kindergarten begins at the age of three. The draft, however, gives local authorities the opportunity to provide childcare services for children aged 1.5 to 3 years. Where exactly are those three-year-old kids going? Or is it possible that both the old and the new standards will continue to apply to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U154	I didn't specify one thing at first. Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act contains two important words: with the consent of the parent. In the case of a child aged between 1.5 and 3 years, the day-care position can only be replaced with the parent's consent. This means that a parent may also require a day-care position for two or three-year-olds. I do not know if I understood the substance of the question correctly, but we have thought that three-year-olds could start going to kindergarten. But given that in the coming years we still have problems with kindergarten places, the last limit since when all children should be in kindergarten is the fourth year of life. This does not mean that children aged three years or younger should not go to kindergarten, precisely there in the youngest group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U155	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that providing childcare for children aged 1.5 to 3 is easier to organise and cheaper than administering pre-school facilities. However, against a background of money savings, the quality of primary education cannot be overlooked. How does the current childcare service support primary education objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U157	Thank you. Quality is extremely important. However, I would point out that although there are different requirements in pre-school childcare and childcare, this does not mean that childcare is in any way less regulated. Undo § 128 of the Social Welfare Act, "Requirements for Child Welfare Services'. There are six paragraphs that state what must be guaranteed when providing childcare. Paragraph 3 mentions the health protection requirements for childcare provided by Decree No 28 of the Minister of Social Affairs of 2007 entitled "Health protection requirements for childcare'. So, in fact, these conditions are very clearly regulated. This concerns both health protection and the qualifications of those who have to provide childcare. As I said, there is a specific professional standard for nannying, which is quite comprehensive. So the fear of children being held any worse in the future is certainly not. There is a broader debate ahead of us on whether we should talk more about looking after them, about their social and age-appropriate development, or about whether this should be an educational process based on a curriculum. In my report, I indicated that we could try to harmonise the educational content of the younger group of childcare and kindergarten in the future. In my opinion, it is a little redundant to talk about the very extensive educational process for children aged 1.5 or 2 years, no matter what, it is about kindergarten or childcare. I believe that babysitters that meet professional standards will ensure that the child's age is properly developed and will do so without any national curriculum.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U158	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U159	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You talked about the possibilities of Tartu. I can state that there were never any problems in the budget of the city of Tartu. But you also talked about some other local government. Can you tell us which local authorities are happy to adopt this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I was looking at this demographic trend, too, and I realized that your initiative was conjunctural. You are trying to find a solution to this situation for two or three years. You do not want to use much of the money of the municipalities and perhaps of the state, because there will be a time when these kindergarten places will no longer be needed. But have you considered migration, which changes the demographic trend, for example, in attraction centres? Has the Ministry also taken into account those municipalities that have centres of attraction and therefore need help?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U161	Of course. This will take into account, for example, the planning of the same European Union funds for the creation of kindergarten and childcare facilities. These are investments that have an impact on the future, and they take internal migration into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U162	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U163	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There's a lot of numbers in the explanatory memorandum, and it's really nice that we're getting information from there. But there was one thing you couldn't find out about. How many new places have been created in Estonia in recent years? I would point out that just new places.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U164	Jobs or childcare facilities? Oh, how many kindergarten places? That's a good question. I don't have those bills on hand, but I'm sure I'll specify it and give you this information in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U165	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U166	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to my last question. If you say that all of this is not temporary, and we hope that more children will be born, maybe you should think about not using temporary solutions, but building up a kindergarten? Then it could be done properly, not as it seems today with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U167	I don't know where to think that baby-sitting isn't a good thing. Maybe you've been exposed to child care that hasn't met the conditions. This is probably the case in Estonia. It is also a question of supervision. For example, it has been asked that if the local government provides childcare services in the private sector, how to ensure that this service is of high quality and meets all the conditions. The answer is that it should be checked more by the local authority, together with health protection, county elders and other institutions. In general, I do not agree with the fact that the service that childcare is able to provide is somehow less high-quality. The basic question, once again, is whether we are moving towards the lowest level of pre-school childcare being harmonised with regard to both the curriculum and other issues. I think it is worth discussing further.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U168	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There have been many good questions today that, unfortunately, you have not been able to answer. I'm excluding the first paragraph right now. But let's look at the second and third paragraphs, about which you have answered quite a lot today. The second paragraph states that a person has the right to put all his or her children in the same childcare facility. Does this also mean that the rights of the first children of the family will be reduced? The Chancellor of Justice has said about schools that it is not allowed to give advantages depending on whether they are the first, second or third children of the family. As regards paragraph 3, you said that it is permissible to put groups together, for example, if on average 50% of children are present. So, what's the situation that's gonna change? On average, the number of adults in kindergartens already exceeds what is required.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U170	I didn't quite understand the last question, probably because of my incompetence. But I'll answer the first question. Basically, as I said, the aim of the draft is ultimately to eliminate waiting lists. If there are no more queues at all, the question will be resolved by itself. The way in which the order of kindergarten or childcare is specifically organised is a technical issue that has been the subject of this issue. We discussed this in the Committee on Culture. Local authorities want to know the legal side of how to actually implement it. I think it is worth trying to find out in Parliament's proceedings what the scope of the constitutional principle of equality is here. In principle, local governments have the opportunity to ensure that children from the same family are placed in the same childcare facility. Not only in the context of queues, but also later, when there are movements between kindergartens, it is still possible to see that children from the same family can go to one childcare facility. As far as the legal side is concerned, I think that this is an appropriate issue that could be discussed with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U171	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister of Education and Science. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Lauri Luige, Chair of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U172	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 641 at its meeting on Monday, 21 April. Ms Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Education and Science, and Ms Tiina Peterson, Head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, took part in the meeting. As the Minister gave a fairly comprehensive overview of the content of the draft law, all I can summarise is that this draft is trying to solve the problem of long day-care queues due to the lack of kindergarten places. This is particularly true for children aged 1.5 to 3 years. As a solution, the draft provides that local authorities may provide childcare instead of giving these children a day-care position, with the consent of the parent. I will now give you an overview of the issues raised in the Commission, marking the most important areas. First of all, I will talk about the issue of child care fees. The Commission stressed that the draft set out a rate that ensures that childcare is no more expensive for parents than the kindergarten service, i.e. up to 20% of the minimum wage set by the Government of the Republic. It was also noted that the parent has the right to choose another child care, according to the draft, if he or she is not fit for what is offered by the local government. In that case, however, the parent has to settle for it himself. It was issued that this service was also financed by the local government. It is important that while a child is in child care, he or she may also be in kindergarten order. So if he gets a chance to go to kindergarten, he can do it. Another important topic concerned the differences and similarities between childcare and kindergarten. It was recognised that kindergartens operate on the basis of a national curriculum, while childcare and its requirements are regulated by the Social Welfare Act, these requirements also apply to baby-sitters in the case of childcare. The curriculum is not compulsory for childcare, just as it is mandatory for kindergarten, but at the same time both institutions guarantee the development of children, both social, physical and cognitive. It is important to know that municipal childcare currently operating cooperates closely with kindergartens. They also include music and mobility activities, which are an important part of children's development activities. It was acknowledged that the harmonisation of the pedagogical role in childcare and kindergarten could certainly be a topic worth discussing in the future. We could move in such a way that childcare and kindergarten are approached in terms of their principles. The question of the debate is how to do it more precisely and when to do it. The Commission was left with the impression that the current quality should be maintained; it should not get worse. The next important issue was the possibility for children from one family to attend the same childcare facility. This, too, is a long-standing question discussed here. It was acknowledged that if there are no vacancies for children in a single family in kindergarten, the local government must review the service areas and also the principles of setting up the reception arrangements for the kindergarten. Whether it is necessary to provide for a separate application for the changeover, we will have to discuss this in the future within the Commission. The ratio of adults to children in kindergarten was also under discussion in the Commission. The text of the bill mentions an adult, while the explanatory memorandum states that an adult means a teacher or a teacher. The members of the Commission considered that the teacher and the teacher could be specifically mentioned in the text of the Act. In the course of our work, we will see what more can be brought from the explanatory memorandum into the text of the law in order to make the situation clearer and more precise. We will be able to discuss this in the work of the Commission. Speaking of parental satisfaction with childcare and quality of service, it was stressed that the provision of childcare services requires a licence. This activity will be monitored, which should also ensure good quality. If the parent is not satisfied with the service, he or she must contact the local government with his or her concerns. The local government must certainly establish a standard of service before entering into a contract with child care, which is elementary. If there is a procurement of childcare, the municipality can lay down conditions, quality requirements, etc., which are extremely important. Once again, however, I say that there should be a debate within the Commission on whether there is anything that we can clarify in this text of the law. We'll see about that in the work. On the impact of the draft, we discussed in the Commission whether there might be a real risk that the local authority would start providing kindergarten services from the age of four and that only savings opportunities would be offered to the 1.5 to 3 year olds. Surely, the emphasis is that all of this will be done only with the consent of the parent. Of course, if a parent wants his child under four to be able to attend kindergarten, he or she has the right to demand this place. After all, this is what the pre-school institution law still provides; the local government must provide a kindergarten place for all children between 1.5 and 7 years of age. The question also arose as to whether the draft text should specify that the parent has the right to keep the child who has received his or her childcare position in the order of the kindergarten. It was discussed whether it should be mentioned separately in the law, even though it was mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. This is the place of discussion, and we will certainly do so at the next Commission meetings. There are other issues that, for the sake of clarity, could be more precisely regulated in the text of the law, we will look at it in the course of the work. Broadly speaking, this is all about the debate. The Committee on Culture decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 7 May, i.e. today (by 5 against 4, with no abstentions). The Commission proposes that the first reading be closed (in the same way as 5 against 4, with no abstentions). The Commission also proposes to set 10 working days (as well as 5 in favour, 4 against, no abstentions) for the submission of amendments and to appoint a rapporteur (the decision was adopted by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U173	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U174	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! The purpose of the draft is certainly noble. But we asked the Minister a lot of questions, and you also highlighted the issues we discussed in the Commission. We shared in the Commission that very many of the questions remain unanswered in the draft; rather, a few points raise questions. As chairman of the committee, how do you feel about whether you would be prepared if we took this draft as a clean slate again and discussed it more broadly and in more substance? Or is the coalition planning to knock it out quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U175	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. We Social Democrats support the completion of the first reading of the draft. The need for childcare, as well as for kindergarten places, is very high. Demographic trends indicate that this need will only increase in the coming years. The aim of the draft is to offer some relief to this social problem, in particular by making childcare more flexible, so that it is affordable for both the local government and the parent who has expressed his wish to use this service. This draft has indeed been drawn up by the previous government. It is quite possible that the task at the time could have been broader and more comprehensive, covering pre-school and early childhood education issues in a more holistic way. However, this draft sets out very important principles. Indeed, there are a number of technical issues related to the draft, not only to technical issues, but also to substantive issues, which also emerged in today's debate in this large Chamber. All of these can be clarified and resolved in the course of further proceedings. The main thing is the political will to address this issue, to seek solutions, to introduce these solutions and not to postpone them. We Social Democrats have this political will. I wish the Minister of Education and the Committee on Culture both strength in further processing of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U176	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group supports the completion of the first reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act. This draft deals with a very important subject; it seeks to find solutions to the problems of thousands of people. It would be irresponsible and light-handed not to deal with these problems and not to stop reading the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U178	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have received a proposal from the Centre Party Group and we must vote through it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to reject the draft law amending the pre-school Children's Institution Act 641 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 25), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 45 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 641 amendments. 21 May 2010 at 5.15 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U179	Let's go to the next item. The first reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please. Honourable Riigikogu, please be a little quieter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity aims to establish an internal electronic system for the management of excise documents. Where the change enters into force, the consignment note for excise goods at the time of dispatch from the excise warehouse shall be drawn up electronically. The electronic system also provides the tax authorities with a delivery note for excise goods dispatched from Estonia to another Member State, subject to excise duty. The implementation of the electronic system shall not entail obligations for a person of another Member State. In addition to the submission of an electronic delivery note, the system makes it possible to submit an application for the refund of excise duty and a pre-filled excise warehouse report and a declaration on the basis of the delivery notes. The electronic system reduces the cost of paper and allows better monitoring of the movement of excise goods, as well as checks on the correctness of the payment of excise duty. The draft specifies the rules for measuring excise goods. Excise goods must be measured in the future not only in the case of storage in a stationary container, but also in the case of storage in a non-fixed container. The entry into force of the Act will be postponed by one month from 1 June 2014 as the duration of the procedure for the draft has to be taken into account. A transitional period for the implementation of the system is foreseen and the electronic transmission of the consignment notes will start from 1 October 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U181	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In the debate on one of the previous items, a good colleague, Tõnis Palts, scared us all by saying that our computer networks are not secure. At the same time, I know that paper documents have also been burned or destroyed by drowning. Which one of you thinks you're safer, computers or papers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U183	When it comes to Tõnis Palts, I feel completely unsafe. My last encounter with him has ended with threats that I will be held accountable because I have not implemented these VAT changes in the past and the state has lost money. I really don't want to go through this anymore. True, I think he said something else today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U184	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Vasiliyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 15 April. The members of the Commission had questions that were answered by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance as far as possible. I will briefly introduce these topics. One issue concerned what led to the creation of this national electronic system for the management of delivery notes for excise goods (SADHES). The reply pointed out that such an electronic system of delivery notes was used to monitor excise goods subject to a temporary exemption between the Member States of the European Union. The issue of the impact of the introduction of SADHES on excise warehousekeepers was also raised. According to the Ministry, the impact should be positive. Use of the system is free of charge, but if the company wishes to continue using the electronic system it has set up, the costs of merging it may be incurred through the data exchange layer of the information systems. They also asked what SADHES could be used to track and identify. It turned out that fraud should come out and that it would be possible to monitor the movement of goods in real time. The date of entry into force of the law proposed in the draft was also under discussion, which is 1 June. There is probably no way to enforce the law by then. This must be dealt with by the Commission in the future. The Commission unanimously decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U186	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 637 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 15 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U187	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm sorry, I have to make sure I don't introduce the wrong bill! Okay. With the same draft Act amending the VAT Act, I was before the Riigikogu on 23 October 2013. The purpose of the amendment is to limit the deduction of input VAT on the purchase or rental of a passenger car and on the purchase of goods and services for a passenger car. The draft proposes a general limitation of the deduction of input tax on passenger cars of 50%. The aim of the draft is to tax passenger cars more fairly and to increase revenue from the state budget. The 50% tax relief for companies will continue to apply after the draft Act enters into force. In 21 countries of the European Union, the deduction of input VAT on the acquisition of passenger cars is already limited and 15 of these have imposed a stricter, 100% restriction on our proposal. In addition, cars everywhere are subject to a number of other taxes that we do not have. The draft provides for exceptions when the restriction is not applied. This does not apply if the company demonstrates that the car is used exclusively for business purposes, and the company must do everything in its power to prevent private use of the passenger car. The restriction does not apply to passenger cars purchased for sale or hire, nor to taxis or study cars. The experience of statistics and tax authorities suggests that the majority of passenger cars owned by companies are in double use, are used for business purposes, but are also used by employees in private use. The current favourable system is being used because buying and maintaining passenger cars is considerably cheaper for the company than for a private person. This leads to the motivation of individuals to take advantage of the opportunity to formalise their private consumption in the name of the company. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U189	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U190	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I am asking about the authorisation of the European Commission. How far is this thing? When do you think this decision will come, and how far will you go by processing this bill before that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U191	Thank you. I do not think it is necessary to delay the procedure because of this, but we have received the following signals from the Commission. First of all, when the country-specific policy recommendations were discussed, Estonia was commended for having made such a decision. True, now we are stuck in our own decision-making process and once again have been by for months. In the Directorate General for Economic and Financial Affairs, we have already been accused of not doing so, and it has been said that it would be more reasonable to set a limit of 100%. I myself met with the Tax Commissioner a few months ago and spoke up. It didn't take much time. I was assured by the Commissioner and his chief specialist (or whatever the person was in office) that there was no doubt that this authorisation would come, they did not. That kind of thing applies everywhere, it's a perfectly natural and reasonable thing. Indeed, we have had correspondence, we may have asked too many questions, whether it could be done differently or whether other rates could be applied, and that is why a certain stretch has arisen. Yesterday, for example, I asked Commissioner Šemeta about this and I reminded him that we are in a hurry to do so, because today the Riigikogu is already reading the draft. He kindly and sympatheticly promised to take care of it. But we must work hard, we can never be sure of these bureaucratic procedures. The sooner it comes, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U192	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! If I register the company at my home address and keep the car in my home yard, then at least driving from home to work and home from work doesn't have to pay any tax. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U194	Basically, yeah. The IRS interprets these things in essence. But in this case, you must prove that it is ensured that you really use this car only for business and do not take private trips. Payers pay taxes on cars, so there's not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U195	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Today, Parliament adopted a law that increased the tax burden or administrative burden on businesses. Now we're dealing with the next one. How much exactly is this bill expected to generate additional revenue, and what is the reason that we are now working on it? I understand, of course, that there is an awful need for more money in the state budget, but the current situation in Estonia has been going on for a relatively long time. Why do we need to change that order now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U197	Thank you. First of all, I don't think the manor's rope, let it slide, and if we find something like that, then we have to leave it the way it is. Neither did the previous government; you can hear the experiences of your ministers from their own mouth. There were no complaints during the debate on the adoption of this law, both there and the IRL Group were encouraged to enforce it in the past. In my opinion, there was still a general view that this tax credit was unfair and anachronistic, because cars with their harmful side effects have been added to the tax rate throughout Europe, not to the tax credit, and it needs to be changed. As far as the second draft is concerned, I would argue that, in conclusion, the VAT return supplement will reduce the administrative burden on businesses. The transition period has to be survived, the changes in the programme still create a burden on businesses. If we change any law, businesses will face reorientation and IT problems, but in the end, the transactions will be much smoother and the number of errors will decrease. Savings in accounting are also likely to be achieved. Let's not dramatize this thing! Rather, I agree with Mr Palts, who has accused me of spending so much money where I was with the VAT return before. I do not agree at all with this when it is said that the tax burden on business is increasing. After all, with the VAT return, fraudsters are actually taxed, after all, in the case of cars, private consumption is taxed, not entrepreneurship. The burden on the undertaking, yes, will increase if it starts to pay more tax, but the tax burden on the enterprise will not be increased in the middle. This is a private consumption that is taxed. Unfortunately, the administrative burden goes hand in hand with all kinds of taxation. The entire calculation is based on the taxable person's record of his income, turnover, expenses and deductions. If he wants to pay less tax, he also has more trouble than he accepts a higher tax, then he can get rid of the trouble, for example, in the case of cars, just pay the tax so that he doesn't worry every day, or he doesn't do private travel now. That's the reality. I think, in the end, it is cheaper for society if cars are in double use, as they are now, but it is also cheaper if everything is taxed fairly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U198	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Why is this limit of 50%? There's supposed to be some calculations behind this. Try to open which calculations or studies led to this 50% choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U200	The church is not in the middle of the village, but it is located in such a way that it will benefit businesses a little. This way, it can be appreciated in a cognitive way. It is not possible to obtain a very precise number in such cases. The basic rule of statistics is that if you are going to ask for some data, in order for the answer to be adequate, the question must be as neutral as possible. The survey does not reveal how many private trips are made because the natural self-defense reaction distorts the end result. That is why tax and statistical reporting issues are strictly separated, and this is also the case in the European directive. Studies that could be mentioned separately have been carried out in Great Britain, Belgium and the Netherlands. I am not personally familiar with the methodology, but these studies show that the proportion of private consumption of professional cars is certainly above 60% and up to 80%. We should not consider this to be incorrect. I'm sure that applies to us, too. If we think about it a little bit and assess it empirically, we will see that this is the case, after all, the company's car is considered to be the norm for private driving. Our situation is a little worse (if I may say so, for cars everything is legal) is that there is a point in the VAT law that I consider to be contrary to the directive. It provides that VAT on cars may be refunded regardless of the purpose of the use. The principle is generally that only business-related consumption can be deducted. This separate passage has been written in the law once by foolishness. We thought there were some proportions in conflict with the directive. At that time, the proportions were one third and two thirds, which were replaced by a blunt paragraph that we can't get rid of now. A slightly blacker figure for Estonia has emerged from one consumption survey of Eesti Pank, which says that 62% of entrepreneurs do not declare business income in real terms. How do you interpret it exactly? It can be assumed that in families of which some members are entrepreneurs, either such a large proportion of the income is hidden and/or private consumption is credited to the company. We know, empirically, that this is common practice. Unfortunately, at the meeting with business organisations, there was also such a confession that why cars are at issue, when meat is also fried for its own use, but no one goes against VAT. You see, you can't assume that if you can't control the use of meat, you don't have to check the cars. We need to treat wage earners and entrepreneurs more equally. The result is that we do not stimulate the withdrawal of money from business through car purchases. Public incentives to buy cars in the name of a company means that companies have less money to invest and spend on business development.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U201	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still have a different idea. In my opinion, both the law that we have already adopted today and the draft that we are currently dealing with are the main problem because we are trying to hit all businesses in the same way. We beat those we consider to be frauds, and we treat reasonable entrepreneurs in the same way. You said that the procedure for this draft has been in place for a long time. At the end of last year, if I remember correctly, you said, I do not know whether your officials or representatives of the tax authorities have registered more than 5000 companies in Estonia, the only property of which is the car, then the tax is refunded. You indicated that the tax can only be deducted from the cost of business. How is this possible or why the existing draft cannot solve this problem? What to do with companies that only have a car but have no substantial activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U203	Thank you. I think you actually understand what I'm talking about. We are not talking about 5 000 companies, but we are still talking about some 50,000 cars, which are in double use, are receiving a tax credit and have been bought on behalf of the company precisely because we have this tax credit. In moments of openness, you have also said this to each other (I am talking about this because you claim that you do not understand and we have different perceptions) that this is not a right-wing approach. I say the right is always rational. Irrationality, the accumulation of money in the wrong place, is not interpreted as right-wing or left-wing. It's a principle. We must not make extra tax incentives for goods such as cars which are costly for society. We are very much opposed to consumers in European terms by not imposing a separate tax on cars. Businesses themselves have now started to offer a car tax instead. I do not think that wage earners have to pay to keep businesses in a VAT advantage. That would be illogical, it would not be in line with the VAT logic that is currently enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U204	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U205	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! This bill, though under another number, was also under discussion in autumn of last year. I know how the debate took place in the autumn with those organisations that will be most directly affected by this change. Yesterday, a business round table was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There I asked how much the initiator of the bill has taken in half a year to communicate with those who will be affected by this change. Turns out, I think in January, it's a relatively formal one, an hour or two, met. I hope I didn't hurt you by saying that. You made it clear there that, since views are different, there is not much to say. This was argued by the undertakings. Do you not sense that if the matter not only needs to be fair, but it should also seem fair, then a little more work should be done and a real discussion should be held with those affected by this change and listen to their arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U206	Thank you. I can honestly say that in private conversations everyone recognises that there is no point in this talk, because it is essentially impossible to argue about it, but it is an unpleasant subject and that is why it is not publicly recognised. That's the reality. Perhaps some smaller organisations have just made statements and made headlines, but larger organisations admit that this is a very logical change of law. It's understandable, but it's a very unpleasant change. Yeah, that's what's unpleasant. If we are used to this advantage, it is very difficult to assess in a self-critical way that this should not really be the case and that we should make tax concessions elsewhere. They should be made in labour taxes as a priority, and car consumption should not be encouraged. Car consumption is not what adds to the economy. On the contrary, it takes money out of the economy and the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U207	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You said that this 50% limit is like a church in the middle of a village. The companies keep their driving journals. Has there been any analysis of how many cars are used for private travel and how many for professional travel by companies keeping a driving log? This proportion should not be close to 50%.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U209	Thank you. First of all, the journey log is not a comprehensive proof, especially as regards the VAT law. The evidence must be examined in the collection. Everyone knows that a driving log is only one method by which the use of a car can be checked and one comma can be written. It is a supporting proof in one direction or another, but it is not decisive. It's not very difficult to write anything in the logbook. I, by the way, did not say that this church was in the middle of the village, but that the situation tends to favour entrepreneurs. In view of consumer surveys, including those from other countries, it is clear that this is still an advantage. But from a purely administrative point of view, tax must always look for as simple procedures as possible, cannot put a guard on every taxpayer or demand, for example, that every step be photographed or filmed. There's always some sort of optimal solution. 50%: 50% is one option. Most European countries have chosen to see that a passenger car is not usually an essential manufacturing input and VAT is not recovered at all. We offer to get 50% back, thereby favouring double-use of cars and favouring entrepreneurs compared to ordinary recipients.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U210	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Through Delfi, today we have read the proposal by the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Estonian Taxpayers' Association to introduce a general car tax instead of reducing the tax credit for corporate cars. I do not think such a proposal is appropriate. But how do you feel about imposing a universal car tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U212	I do not think that the debate on car tax is at all out of the question, if the entrepreneurs insist. The entrepreneurs must be heard, as I have heard many times here, I think this has been said today. I'm against car tax myself. I think the car is already relatively expensive. But I am also opposed to market distortion. This VAT change has to be done anyway and long before we even start going together to discuss the subject of car tax. Of course, different tax changes can be made, car taxes can be introduced and social taxes reduced, for example, so that these amounts match. It would be good for the tax structure. But just to replace one thing with another, it's a little embarrassing. To be honest, I've had embarrassing moments at these meetings before. It was mentioned here that I have only met entrepreneurs once. In fact, there have been many times when businesses have been met, and there have still been many and different levels. After all, the state is at such a level of development that the minister does not personally meet interest groups, but has routine coordination. Experts often meet, but correspondence has long been received. It cannot be argued that this is a very gross negligence when the Minister personally has only accepted the representatives of the organisations in his office once. No, we have seen these meetings at different levels, including the Riigikogu, before, and we have experienced that there is no rational justification for this opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U213	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U214	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. But why are you focusing on cars? After all, people use computers, they're charged with electricity, they use the Internet, some workers go home with work clothes, they're already in full use. Why is this change so car-centred?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U215	Thank you. If the members of the Riigikogu make such a proposal, I will be forced to respond formally. The current informal response is that it would go beyond what is right. We do not want to burden one side or the other, either the country or businesses. But in my opinion, however, this business organisation was ridiculous, who, arguing against the change in the value added tax (VAT) of cars, asked why only cars, when we put meat on the pan and take it home, and nobody says that VAT cannot be refunded. That's the difference of perspective. Indeed, from a fair point of view, there should always be a distinction between private consumption and business consumption, but in practice it is hopelessly cumbersome. That is why we have chosen goods that are the most expensive and larger of their kind, which are recorded in the register and the consumption of which can be monitored to some extent. We're never gonna watch a piece of meat, no work clothes. That's not a problem either. When a person goes home in work clothes, it's his choice. If he's expected to be like this at home, congratulations to him!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U216	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U217	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yesterday the Riigikogu held a meeting of the Monetary Committee where this draft was discussed. Business organisations also participated there. The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that most of the special tax on cars, which should be collected in the state budget, would not be collected. I would point out that according to the Ministry of Finance, most of what is actually due to be collected in the state budget will not be collected. Would it not be more reasonable, however, to pursue the collection of existing taxes before going down the path of introducing new taxes? Otherwise, we will create a situation where honest taxpayers are paying more and more, but those who are bypassing taxes will continue to do so, and we will thus increase inequalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U218	Thank you. I was just saying that we are dealing with the elimination of inequalities in car taxation. Read the calculation in the explanatory memorandum. After all, wage earners pay essentially the price of another car for all kinds of car goods and taxes over a period of five years. The companies get their VAT back, they get to write private consumption into the company's expenses, and it's all legal. It's written in the law. We are currently dealing with the correction of an error in the VAT law. This point, which we are working on at the moment, is not in line with the idea of VAT law. As regards the fact that part of the tax is not collected, this is indeed the case. The next draft will also address the issue of this special advantage. How is it that we have the same tax-free minimum for family members such as children and cars? If you have a car, you will receive a thousand kroons or 63 euros in tax-free wages. That doesn't make any sense. The tax-free minimum should help the poor, not the wealthy. This too must be dealt with and one does not exclude the other. There is always a need to increase the percentage of how much it will be possible to tax in the form of fair taxation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U219	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U220	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Businesses should be aware of tax changes at least one year before they enter into force. I read in the bill that this law will enter into force on 1 July. a. Is it business-friendly and business-friendly? It's about a month and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U221	Thank you. You're a state-paid man yourself. Do you think your salary is paid out of money printed in the Ministry of Finance or from money collected from entrepreneurs? These perceptions of the need to be business-friendly, but also pay-out, are not consistent. The Constitution also says something about taxation. It is not in the spirit of the Constitution that the taxpayer is asked whether he wants to pay the tax, and if he says he does not want to, he is simply told: 'Ah, we are asking the following. 'That's not how it works. I have also heard such suggestions when I meet the political groups, by the way, that this car thing should still be done right away, because it is so basic. I've been told that all right, the supplement to the VAT return requires technical preparation, but we'd try to get this done sooner. It is not that everything that is stupid is business-friendly. That's a stupid point in the law right now. We are responding to businesses by making taxation more logical and by doing so we can also tackle the reduction of labour taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U222	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U223	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. I have a simple question. Would it not have been easier to fix a certain car price that should not be paid for VAT, and should it be paid for a more expensive car? For example, cars costing up to EUR 20000 could be exempt from VAT, but for luxury cars costing more than EUR 20000, which cost 30000, EUR 40000, EUR 50000 or more, the tax could be 100%. Did they do that kind of analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U224	Thank you. This cannot be discussed at all, because we cannot use any minimum value added tax (VAT) on goods. After all, we could also say that the first kilo is tax-free, the next one should be paid tax, we could say something similar about clothes or whatever. We could also say that the first lace is excise-free. This cannot be the case, the taxation of goods must be logical. No one should have to track this first batch and monitor the price of the car. It would be insane, it would not be survived by any tax system or budget. Are we going to share the price of the car between family members, so that the minimum VAT-free is taken into account for everyone? I do not understand this proposal, to be honest. The logic of VAT is that you get VAT back from business inputs, but you don't get it from private consumption. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U225	Thank you. Please, Andrus Ansip, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I remember that about half of the Member States of the European Union cannot refund VAT on cars at all. Can you remember what these proportions are in the European Union? In many countries, how much VAT can not be refunded at all, how many can return some percentage, such as 50, and where is the current procedure in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U227	Thank you. I have not had the tax system of all countries analysed, but I can safely say that even after the adoption of this law, the taxation of company cars in Estonia remains the most favourable in Europe. These proportions are that in the 27 Member States (I can't tell you about Croatia), in 15 countries, not a cent of VAT on cars is refunded and there are six countries where they can get back. This means that the vast majority of countries are not going to get involved at all; they consider it entirely natural that it is not a production input, it is a consumer product, which is good and convenient, but a tax must be levied on it. Other taxes are also levied on it, such as car tax, environmental tax, and tax is automatically included in Finland, as far as I know, 20%. It just makes so much sense. We're actually going to be messing with this little VAT law for too long. Everyone else has solved this issue of car taxation in one form or another and more expensive. In the case of the six Member States where there is no such restriction, it would probably also be possible to find the details that would provide an answer as to why they do not have it. When I looked at the country list, I saw, of course, that there was a scream against the lobby of the car companies. The brightest example is Germany, which is generally a very green country. I'm sure it's company policy to buy a local car. On the streets and in company courtyards, you can see how car patriotism is expressed. But I guess there's some car and environmental taxes that take back that money and even more. In the case of VAT simply, it is therefore possible to meet it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U228	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U229	Thank you. I understand that today is quite depressing for entrepreneurs, and you're gonna have a lot of new ideas. What else are you up to in the near future? If there's a lot of stuff going on today, maybe you can say a few words about what's waiting for the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U230	How about somebody: some of them are waiting for wealth, some of the prison cells and some normal economic activity. It's very complicated in taxation. I'm reading the news about how many men were put in jail for VAT fraud at the same time. This is perhaps the Estonian record at all. If there's some crap going on over this extra VAT return, then, frankly, it makes me angry. Do we really have to let the sin record grow to an endless extent because we can control only 3% of companies? Is the solution a drill? Or are we still setting up a reporting system where tax evasion is detected in time, a note is made, and friendly communication is possible? If more taxes are collected, we can say to businesses that we are reducing income tax and unemployment contributions, because we have collected VAT fairly. I think it is a business-friendly behaviour, not a temptation for them to constantly strain a company by buying cars. A lot of people are just buying because of this incentive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U231	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U232	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I don't even know if I dare ask anymore, because the dungeon is waiting. But I like a good debate. In that sense, the hat off when you start your answer by actually coming to meet the entrepreneurs. I just quoted you. That's a pretty good start to make that change. You have also made it clear that the purpose of this draft is to increase the resources of the state budget. This is your vision, which is also stated in point 10 of the Coalition Agreement. However, you said.. and it is true in itself that the business input should be able to be refunded VAT; in the case of private consumption, however, there should be some kind of detention. You have pointed out that it is difficult with computers and phones because there is no register. Do you want to make these cuts for aircraft and ships in the future, because they are in the register? What's your understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U233	Thank you. If I could get that high and on the water, I'd just keep cutting. In fact, there is no provision in the VAT Act for them to be refunded regardless of their use. There's just no provision for you to have an incentive to buy a yacht on behalf of a company because it's more expensive to buy for yourself. That's the logic of the law right now. I thank you for recognising the need to distinguish between private and business consumption. There is also a special advantage for when the company gives employees the use of planes and yachts. I don't know how common practice this is. But you're from a wealthy circuit, so I guess you know better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U234	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U235	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is about the date of entry into force of the law, which is set at 1 July 2014. In order for this law to enter into force in its proposed form, we must obtain the agreement of the European Commission on the application of the VAT exemption. There isn't one today. Parliament is in a strange state: what the law provides for does not exist and cannot be realised at the moment. The situation is contrary to European law. Suppose that consent is obtained. But maybe you won't? We will then approve of a law that we cannot implement. Would it still not be more reasonable for the law to enter into force after it is clear that the European Commission has given its consent?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U236	Thank you. This entry into force clause can still be discussed and assessed at this rate as soon as this authorisation comes. We are also going to accelerate this pace. I guess it still bothers us when one Directorate General complains about why this has not already been done and why it is so late and so little, but the other one lets the correspondence flow and does not give this permission, which has been said to come in any case. The question is relevant, the answer is not that smart. I don't know exactly what the optimal date is, but it would be fair to adopt the law as soon as possible. This will not lead to an administrative burden for businesses either. A transitional period is necessary, but it should not be too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U237	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U238	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The content of this draft is a matter of deduction of input tax on passenger cars and motor fuel. The explanatory memorandum contains this sentence: 'The fact that there were 5600 companies in Estonia at the beginning of 2013 with an annual turnover of less than 1000 euros in 2012, but with an average of 1.3 passenger cars, also indicates the existence of a problem. ' Under the VAT Act, an operator can be liable for VAT, i.e. he can be entitled to deduct input tax from the annual turnover of an enterprise of EUR 16000. If he is unable to prove that he is engaged in business, even though the company has a turnover of EUR 1000, the tax authority has the right to exclude him from the list of taxable persons. How can a company with EUR 1000 turnover deduct input VAT, or what does this have to do with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U239	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U240	Thank you. It would probably require a comment from a specialist, but the reality is that such negative answers are very easily disputed and it is extremely costly to argue. If the country does not have clear facts, then our very large freedom of business applies. You're just gonna get your VAT status, and you're gonna get your VAT back if you buy a car. There are, of course, nuances. For example, the car market has also been used in a second direction, why not say that it is in the same direction, but in the sense of the emotions of car operators, that it is in the opposite direction for fair taxation of the car business. That's where we've been using this section of refusal. Personally, of course, I don't. The Minister must not interfere with this process, but the Tax Administration and the Traffic Register have made use of this administrative option. However, instead of dealing with the whole weight, clear rules should still be laid down so that these decision-making decisions are not to be taken one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U241	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U242	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In answer to Mr Ansip's question, you said that there are 15 countries in Europe where the company does not get VAT back at all when buying a car, and six countries do, but there are certainly other taxes there. You have shown European countries as a very positive example. At the same time, it can be said that in most European countries, certainly at least 15, there is progressive income tax. But somehow you don't like it. It seems that this positive example was somehow hypocritical. Do you think that it should or should not be aligned with the positive examples of the Member States of the European Union? Which option do you prefer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U243	I think that today we do not have any progressive income tax, annexation of Crimea or agreement with the United Russia on the agenda. Your favorite subjects are off the table for now. When it comes to the tax structure, the best tax system for the economy and business is a tax system where income is not taxed progressively, capital and labour are not burdened and investment opportunities are good, but consumption and property are taxed. It's a good, business-friendly tax system. That is where we are going with this decision. At the same time, it has been agreed that labour taxes will fall next year. So we're getting more business friendly. Of course, that's a story you could talk to at a meeting with business organisations. Getting support from business organisations for step-by-step income tax could be one of your initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U244	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U245	Thanks again! I'll continue with my last question. Mr. Minister! Do you think it is likely that 5600 companies with an annual turnover of less than EUR 1000 have more than 7000 cars in Estonia, on which they charge input VAT back?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U246	I'm sorry, but you're gonna produce the statistics that are in the explanatory memorandum and ask if I think it's likely. Yeah, I think it's likely. If it's in the explanatory memorandum, I think it's a fact. But first of all, it is not a question of 5000 companies, but rather a question of 50,000 companies where cars are in double use, but where tax relief is obtained from private consumption. Secondly, we can't argue that if the company doesn't start working, it's automatically just a scheme. There are also some examples among these 5,000. No, the car may have been acquired in the purely sincere belief that the turnover will come, but it has not succeeded in generating it. True, the incentive is that when there is a tax incentive, they go mad (at least men go crazy) and find that they can buy a more expensive car. The core of entrepreneurship, then, is the car that we are maintaining at the expense of the Treasury, and it is hoped that perhaps other activities will succeed over time. The tax credit is unfortunately, yes, in very many cases, the primary incentive why the car is purchased on behalf of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U247	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You started by answering my previous question with cynical clues that were not relevant, but you have come back to approving our good tax system. That's my question. Why is our growth forecast being adjusted downwards? It is likely to start approaching zero at the end of the year. Why is economic growth much better in countries where the tax system is not so good?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U249	Oh, my God, what were you talking about again? I couldn't even follow, I looked at what was written to me in the meantime. It's that graduate income tax thing again! You want to prove that with progressive income tax, the economy is growing faster. Well, it doesn't. Empirical studies say that has been said by the OECD, the European Commission and the IMF, and I am their contact person in the Republic of Estonia, that higher taxation of capital and labour is hostile to economic growth and that it is certainly hostile to the improvement of the economic structure if we pay higher taxes on qualified work. It's as simple as that. I think that this issue is not relevant at the moment, just as is the subject of Crimea and the Single Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U250	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U251	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I admit honestly and directly that I've been to a friend with a tractor several times. The air conditioning cooled the air and the music played, it was great, and the VAT got back. However, that is not the question. The question is that Jürgen Ligi and the Ministry of Finance, led by him, have hijacked the central-party worldview. The taxation of businesses and wealth has always been one of the main components of the Central Party's battle platform. That's why you could say it's a pretty good bill, because it's the money you need to take away from the rich. I have very much liked the statements made by Jürgen Ligi from this very remote area. He has said that when we look at the employee's consumption structure, we often see television, the car and other consumer items that he is forced to buy in order to live decently. In Estonia, however, there are widespread cases where presentation equipment, cars and other items are on the company's balance sheet, although they are actually located at home with the company. This is an intolerable situation. This situation cannot be accepted. We have fought this situation and that is what our Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, is doing, unfortunately being part of the Reform Party, which I regret. After some time, Jürgen Ligi will probably understand that there is no place for him in the ranks of a party promoting such a world view and an entrepreneurial environment. But it's probably just gonna come in the future. I read the explanatory memorandum to the bill and noticed a strange sentence: '... as there exist incentives to buy more fuel and larger/more powerful cars... " It seems to me that the officials of the Ministry of Finance do not know how much fuel costs these days. I believe that in Estonia no one has an incentive to buy more fuel; in Estonia there is a very strong incentive to buy less fuel. In this sense, it is characteristic that the analyses contained in the explanatory memorandum to this draft certainly rely on something. Once again, looking at the Centre Party, the tables show that the company's car is paying much less taxes to the state. Consequently, this is a good draft. Consequently, in any case, this bill should be done and more brutally so that it does not return 100%. But unfortunately, we are of the opinion that all the good that is here is lost because of one thing. It's called a legislative culture. My modest years here in the Riigikogu, which can soon be measured by seven, have been very refreshing. In the opposition, I and the Centre Party have had a great deal to contribute to improving the legislation of the Estonian state. I can only remember these anxious moments when we increased the VAT rate by one and a half weeks in advance. Now we're struggling here with these $1,000 bills and the VAT on cars. But we are not struggling, for example, to freeze for a while a party commitment to reduce another 1% of personal income tax. We can't do that. We can't touch it because it's a sacred cow. But since wages have also risen in the meantime, it could be worth the country, I think, about 80 million euros. All the troubles we've got at the moment trying to cover up with all kinds of drafts, it's like they're gone by witchcraft. By the way, this would not mean that we could not come back to this issue of income tax. Look, like I'm saying the second time today... I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U252	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U253	Thank you. I agree that this is the right thing. I think the country does not have to twitch, and I think we have been acting consistently and logically. As far as the Centre Party is concerned, you can tell your children that someone else will decide there but one person.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U254	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U255	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I am personally insulted when the subject of a single agreement with Russia is brought into this Chamber. This agreement has been signed by Reform Party Ain Seppik and apparently this agreement is now in your office. But that's not what I wanted to ask you about. The problem, I think, is that what you're saying is actually right. In fact, this bill is completely reasonable in nature. But doesn't it seem to you that once again the child goes out the window with the washing water because we need to make such bad-ass drafts because the state budget is scraping? Do you not think that it is time to look at the whole system as a whole and to tax wealth and entrepreneurship sensibly, so that the state does not have to twitch all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U256	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation, I will close the negotiations. The Committee on Finance, as the lead committee, has proposed that the first reading of draft 644 be completed. At the same time, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to reject the draft at first reading 644. The Group of the Estonian Central Party has also proposed the same thing. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we have to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party to reject the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 644. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal and against 42. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 644 is complete. I recall the deadline for submitting amendments, which is s. 5.15 p.m. on May 21st. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U257	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at two meetings, one on 21 April and the other on 6 May. First of all, I will give an overview of what took place on 21 April and then of what took place on 6 May, when representatives of business organisations who have referred this draft to the Committee on Monetary Affairs were also involved, in addition to representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board. There are relatively many such organisations. On 21 April, the following topics were under discussion: First, a limit of 50%. They wondered if there had been other rates in question. According to the representatives of the Ministry, there hasn't been one. Reference was made to international studies which suggest that a limit of 50% is optimal. It was also discussed whether the purpose of the use of passenger cars could be demonstrated and whether a one-off infringement would lead to sanctions. According to the draft, 100% of input VAT can be deducted if the car is used exclusively for business purposes. The question arose: if, for example, there was a one-off infringement, would this also mean sanctions. Basically, the answer was yes. The law obliges an undertaking to prove that trips are carried out solely for business purposes. In the event that the verification is not successful or if it appears that private journeys have also been carried out, a limit of 50% should apply. In the case of a purchase, it's in two years, but I'll get to the subject of the purchase. The impact of the law on the budget and its analysis were discussed. At the end of last year, the revenue was expected to be EUR 40 million, and now the expected amount has increased to EUR 47 million. What's the reason? According to the Ministry's reply, last year data for 2012 were taken into account, but now it is based on the fact that car sales have increased according to statistics. One of the topics was possible rental companies and their associated layouts, which were also put on the table in the Commission and asked for comments from the Ministry of Finance on how real this risk could be. It was asked to clarify the definition of a passenger car. Traffic law defines a passenger car as follows: 'A passenger car is a car designed to carry passengers with up to eight seats in addition to the driver's seat. 'The decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications states that it is a category M1 vehicle. The taxation of private consumption of vehicles other than M1 will not change, i.e. it will continue as it is today. It was also a time of enforcement, which has also been mentioned in the Chamber. 1 July, which is in the current draft, is not all expected to be realistic. Problems may arise as regards the procedure of the Riigikogu, the announcement by the President and the publication in the Official Journal of the State, but above all, the European Commission's response to the introduction of an exception raises questions. It was also asked that when the 2014 budget was adopted, which at that time was taken into account in the light of this draft. The cover was found here in the Riigikogu, but this cover is not sustainable. In the longer term, these revenue measures certainly cannot be taken into account. In addition, it was argued on the basis of the words of the stakeholders that no consultation of the stakeholders had been carried out. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that meetings had taken place. The main problem is that the interests are very different, which makes it almost impossible to reach consensus, while the interest groups have been met and, for example, the EUR 2000 limit has been abandoned. On 6 May, a round table was held yesterday. The Committee on Monetary Affairs had been requested by those undertakings which had expressed their views on the draft by letter to the Commission. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board, as well as the Economic Advisor of the Representation of the European Commission, were also invited, who had just been invited because of the request for an exemption and the processing of this request. Representatives of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Enterprises, EVEA, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Association of Security Companies, the Estonian Association of Shipowners, the Estonian Association of Accountants, the Estonian Association of Liising Associations and the Estonian Turbany Association were invited from the interest groups. There is much more of them in Estonia who are affected by this bill, but it would not have been possible to invite them all. That is why we chose from who has shown direct interest. The economic advisor of the European Commission's Representation was first heard about the process of processing the Estonian application. Estonia's request was sent to the Commission in October 2013 and the Commission has asked Estonia to complete the request. The European Commission was particularly interested in why a 50% limit has been chosen. The additional request was submitted on 25 March 2014. It may take up to eight months for the Commission to submit a revised application. It is worth pointing out that it may just take a certain time for this response to come, the representative of the Commission could not say, but stated that there might not be such a response on 1 July. It was mentioned that if national legislation were to enter into force before authorisation, it would be an act that would not comply with the requirements of the VAT Directive. So it makes sense to enforce the law after authorisation has been obtained from the European Commission. Authorisation may be granted by the Commission for two purposes. One is the simplification of the tax system and the other is the avoidance of tax fraud. Estonia's main argument for the application is simplification of the system. According to the new directive, which, according to my memory, is likely to be in force since 2006, a similar exception has been granted to Latvia, Italy and Great Britain, or rather, Britain's authorisation has been extended. The Tax and Customs Board and their preparedness were also a serious issue. Interested that if the new law were to apply, they would have the capacity to act accordingly. A representative of the Tax and Customs Board said that any tax change would require certain changes in their working arrangements and that the control tactics would have to be adjusted accordingly. Basically, according to the new regulation, there is more evidence on the basis of which the purpose of the journeys can be verified. Stakeholders argued that the amendment would not simplify the system and that the existing tax collection options should be reviewed. For example, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has recently worked effectively and successfully to clean up the market for under-utilised cars. The amendment does not abolish the exception, but introduces a new exception in terms of VAT, which was also a claim by the representatives of interest groups. This is also confirmed by the fact that we are applying for a European derogation. The so-called 'two-year rule' was also discussed. They said this approach was too harsh. In particular, if the acquisition of a car is assumed to be used exclusively for business purposes, but within two years it becomes apparent that it also carried out private trips, 50% of the input VAT should be refunded. The question is whether or not interest should also be paid. A representative of the Tax and Customs Board claimed that this should not be done if it has been demonstrated that there was no direct intention to use the car for private use. It was stated that the explanatory memorandum should specify what the idea that interest should also be paid, in fact, means. A representative of the Taxpayers' Association identified issues related to the implementation of the draft, which were quite comprehensive and in many respects technical. Due to these issues, but also to other issues of a more technical nature, it was considered reasonable to convene a smaller group to discuss these issues. The convening of this working group was the responsibility of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In addition, representatives of the Ministry and the Tax and Customs Board will be involved in the working group in order to examine the various issues that may be of interest to this law. Finally, I will talk about procedural decisions. At its meeting on 21 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs (by 6 votes against and 2 against) decided to propose that the first reading of draft 644 be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 days, i.e. amendments should be tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 21 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U258	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. I'm opening negotiations. Sven Sester has a wish to speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate that took place today in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, and it raised certain questions. I will pass on to you the ideas that have arisen in the IRL Group during the procedure for this draft and the questions that have arisen already in the autumn, but which have not been answered now, half a year later. First of all, a few words about history. I would remind you that this bill was more or less in the same terms on our table in the autumn. So it was 493 and it was the same bill that we adopted again today as a law. This draft at the time had two parts: the so-called EUR 1000 issue and the subject of VAT on cars. When this draft came to the Riigikogu, the coalition, based on democratic logic, always had a majority vote, it came to the view that with the 1000 euro issue we could move forward because this change had not been discussed with economic operators, but it could improve the tax system. However, it was found that the change in the VAT treatment of cars was purely a matter of tax increases. At that moment, all the parties who had gathered at the table were well over ten companies' organisations that had not been negotiated with those who would be affected by this change. We made a decision and sent that part of the bill back to the government. Now six months have passed and something similar was held yesterday, i.e. a new meeting of the Monetary Commission, where representatives from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, AMTEL, the Auditor Assembly and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations sat at the table again. I asked businesses there that they criticise this bill, but how much they have talked about this draft in six months. Believe me, I am now quoting the words of entrepreneurs, they said that they had had a formal meeting with the Ministry of Finance for an hour or two, where the minister clearly stated today that there was not much to talk about, because the styles of thinking are completely different. A representative of a business organisation said that they have also met with the IRL Group. That was it, there's been no more meetings. If you look at the list at the end of the draft proposal, what do you note? Almost all the proposals are said: not to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, After all, entrepreneurs are the ones who provide us with added value, by which we can raise child benefits and teachers' wages and build the highways of Tallinn to four lines. It must not only be fair, but it must also seem fair. If we don't talk to them, it's just not right. I've also said before from this speaker, there's nothing weird about the fact that there's a difference of opinion. It is clear that businesses do not like all the burdens that are imposed on them. But if there is no discussion with the party affected by the change, I do not think that is right. Now I'm talking questions and answers. I'm looking at the last two weeks. Dozens of questions have been sent to the Committee on Monetary Affairs by business organisations. Saying 'tens', I was actually wrong. Business organisations have sent over a hundred questions to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, signed by eight or nine business organisations. This shows how many topics were actually up there that could have been discussed and should have been discussed before this bill reached the Riigikogu. I am also talking about the European Commission. Yesterday it turned out that the European Commission has twice asked the Estonian state for further information on why one thing or another is being done. Why did he do it twice? Consequently, the first information given by the Estonian state was not competent or at such a level that no further additional questions were needed. From the beginning of April, the European Commission has eight months to take decisions. This is for those who brought this bill to the Riigikogu today to know. Therefore, to talk about 1 July and the fact that the draft has been discussed with all parties, including the European Commission, is, to put it mildly, bizarre. I'm surprised by the Minister of Finance. He's a politician and he can put things in a light that's better or more characteristic of him. It was surprising when Mr Ligi said that this bill would meet entrepreneurs. Businesses will be countered if EUR 47 million is the impact of this draft and comes from their pockets! I agree that we must monitor very clearly what private consumption is and what entrepreneurship consumption is. I also agree that we have to hold this discussion in this Chamber. I agree with that and I would say that the initiator of the draft should first organise this debate. I wasn't just asking tonight if we'd be discussing beach boat in this hall next. These boats are on the register somewhere. The beach fisherman in his public limited company is fishing, but at some point he drives this fishing boat to visit his friend across the bay. By this logic, he should also be subject to tax. Does this mean that next, we will see an exemption from VAT on beach fishermen's boats? These things should first be clarified by the initiator of the bill, the Minister of Finance, but not come here to label others, saying: 'Listen, friends, don't ask me about planes or boats if you have too rich friends! " That is not the question now. I do have a feeling, a good Reform Party, that this is not just a business day, although on that day it could be said that then we will not harm entrepreneurs. We are rather creating a situation where entrepreneurs can understand all days the policy we are pursuing here in the Riigikogu Hall and also in the ministries. Therefore, the IRL Group proposes to reject the draft 644 so that the Ministry can work with it and then come back to the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U260	... we would not want to oppose the content of this draft, because the content is sometimes very correct. But the question is, we're working on a struggle, we're taking a piece of a sector, we're doing, as they say, tax changes, and we think that's what's great. Why do we not want to look at the tax system as a whole? We are going to make major changes once, but perhaps even in a sense, we are going to make changes to the tax structure, and we are going to put an end to the constant extinction with which we are going to irritate society against ourselves. I do not mean that this place should be very sweet to anyone, but the institution, the body of legislators, should not look so strange. I admit honestly and directly that for the first time I have received a prize in opposition seven years ago, because I don't have to kill a little bit of my eyes like the IRL when I've completely changed my mind in a month. I've been so lucky with that, because if I'd fallen into the government for a moment, you'd be ashamed of yourself today. How can a man change his mind so quickly? It's not like it's good. I'm worried. Actually, I'm not worried about the Centre Party, although we have our own problems, but I'm worried about the Reform Party, because I like the Reform Party. I say honestly and frankly that what they are now doing to themselves by acting like this makes me and the Centre Party sad because perhaps at some point the Reform Party will lose its face. But we would like them to remain strong and powerful in the political landscape. I understand that arithmetically, it is now the order of the Centre Party to go to the coalition, because everyone else has already visited the groom and it is customary in Estonia to get married several times. The Centre Party is of the opinion that this kind of legislative logic and culture, in which very good initiatives are lost, is not acceptable to us. quite a number of leading entrepreneurs have also said that entrepreneurs are doing too well, that they should be whipped a little bit, taxed in a good way. That's why I say, Jürgen Ligi, join the Centre Party, we may choose you as chairman someday, and then you can carry out all those thoughts that are actually reasonable. A small society cannot live in contrasts where some are doing infinitely well, but let everyone else see for themselves how they can. The position of the Centre Party is that this draft should be rejected at first reading. And that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U261	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U262	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The previous speaker, Aivar Riisalu, feared that we would upset society against ourselves, or at least Jürgen Ligi would upset society against the Reform Party. I don't know about this society, but Aivar Riisalu could upset me. Aivar Riisalu says he's a liberal, but he forgets that liberal worldview values justice. The draft to be dealt with also seeks fairness. Jürgen Near's confrontation with society or people is inappropriate. To claim that entrepreneurs create added value is only half the truth, with employers who create added value together with employees. The Ministry of Finance did not put forward this proposal to collect money in the state budget, which the Minister could stick in his cheeks like a hamster. This money is collected for the benefit of society. This money is collected to increase, for example, child benefits. I think it is fair to cut somebody's unjustified tax incentives so that they can increase child benefits. It would be a mistake to interrupt the draft procedure, it would be irresponsible. I support the further processing of this draft, just as the Reform Party Group supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U263	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu has the right to be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U264	Good President! Mr Andrus Ansip! I stress that your criticism of me is only partly correct. I would like to point out once again that there is a great deal of substance in this draft, as is the case with many measures to supplement the state budget resources that I have read. That is why I wholeheartedly congratulate Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi, who has stood behind such initiatives. It is only a question of the style in which we are going to carry out this procedure, up to the point that today we do not know very clearly whether the European Commission will grant us this permission at the right time, on the appropriate date or not, etc. I do not dispute the fact that wealth must be taxed. This has always been one of the basics from the perspective of the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U265	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Jürgen Ligi! I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Vasiliyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U266	Agenda item 12 is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U267	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll try again. This bill is essentially related to the previous one. As a result, I can make a pessimistic estimate that neither the arguments nor the fact that the opponents themselves have been the initiators of this draft and also the greedy spenders of the money they receive from it are important. If the seat has changed, the position may also change. But then let's talk about the Income Tax Act and see if it's going the same way. The amendments to the Income Tax Act concern the rules on the exemption of compensation to employees for the use of their personal passenger car for work. Two amendments are made to the Income Tax Act. First, the possibility to pay compensation to an employee, official or member of the management or control body of a legal person for the use of a private passenger car for business trips is terminated without keeping records of the journeys. The reason for this change is very common practice of using uncalculable compensation not to compensate for work travel, but to optimise labour taxes, thus tax-free wages. However, the basic rule of taxation and reporting is that tax-reducing costs must be documented. Secondly, the threshold for compensation and exemption is increased, i.e. the amount exceeding the part of the compensation is taxed as a special advantage. The threshold has remained unchanged since 2009 and the draft aims to raise it from EUR 256 to EUR 335 per month. Where's that coming from? This is, in fact, a proposal from business organisations that has been taken into account. In essence, this is indeed a legitimate increase in the border. Changes have a revenue-increasing effect on the state budget. It is expected that part of the compensation will be replaced by wages if the law is amended, resulting in an additional income tax, social tax and unemployment insurance contribution of around EUR 4 million per year. The Act enters into force on 1 July 2014. The additional receipts in 2014 are estimated at EUR 1.35 million. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U268	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? It is. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U269	Thank you. Dear Minister, Why, at the beginning of your speech, did you end up with a coalition partner in such a way, accusing him of changing his position and using money greedyly? Have you had any serious disagreements about this bill with the Ministry of Social Affairs yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U270	Well, that was meant for the previous coalition partner, perhaps you. You have approved this draft; you have asked for faster implementation than we have. You were also a very greedy extra money spender. You are the only one who disagreed with the budget in the previous government, because your additional personal requests were not fully taken into account. In terms of spending, I'm sure you were the best minister in the previous government. Take good care of fair taxation, then.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U271	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U272	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a question about the part of the draft that raises this threshold to EUR 335. Why don't you give me a few words of enlightenment, which means it's 335? It could be bigger. On the one hand, we are taking away 64 euros, which you referred to as the wage supplement, and I think that to some extent is true, because some companies used it as a wage supplement. But on the other hand, you could increase that amount. If a couple of times you drive from Tallinn to work in Tartu with your own passenger car, keep a driving diary about it, and receive compensation, you may find that you will not be able to travel to Tartu for the third time without paying a special discount tax. Where does that come from, 335 euros, and don't you think there could be a larger amount of money here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U273	Thank you. I introduced it in a few words. I said it was a proposal from business organisations that we took into account. Each step in the border has a price, statistically it works both ways and the other way, some of it goes in the way, some of it doesn't. The advantage is something which, in any case, reduces the revenue of the state budget. Of course, what comes out of your argument is what always comes out when these drafts are being discussed, that there is really a need for a tax reduction in a way that does not provide for a tax reduction. Working is not an object of the exemption either for employees or for undertakings. But it just refers to the logic of dragging a rope, that's how you're used to it. No, there is no tax refund or tax exemption for going to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U274	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U275	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll keep asking about the same subject. Your argument is that you do not trust the business logbooks. You think that if an entrepreneur keeps a driving log, he still uses the car for private travel. Let me get this straight. If this is not the case, why is a company that makes work trips worth more than EUR 335 penalised by a special preferential tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U276	There's a rule in taxation: if you trust me, check it out. Sometimes you have to check. Is the liver a punishment? No, tax is not a punishment, tax is a source of budget revenue. If you want to reduce budget revenue, you have to reduce expenditure. I have not heard any good proposals from you on austerity, but I have heard many requests for spending from your party. Such limits shall be established in order to reduce budget losses, while leaving freedom of choice to economic operators. In the company there are always different ways to go somewhere, who owns a car, which car to choose from. These choices are certainly rational. The state must also be rational in laying down its rules; it must take into account the existing situation and temptations. If you're suggesting that a driving diary is in any case a solid proof, and the entrepreneurs have always kept it very accurately and all written down nicely, it's about as good a story as it is that people other than Edgar Savisaare decide in the Centre Party. Don't tell me that kind of talk. I have heard on several occasions in your group, as well as in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, such comments that there is a programme for driving journals, and these journals are printed. It should be taken into account that there is a reason to keep a driving logbook if less tax is to be paid. The easiest way to pay the tax is simply to avoid burdening yourself. But if the tax burden is to be reduced, the diary is one of the evidence that can be shown to the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U277	Question two, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I listen to you, and sometimes I wonder. I have been very much in agreement with you on quite a number of matters over the years, and I have supported many of your ideas on tax policy changes with two hands. But I do not understand anything at all, for example, the constant talk that entrepreneurs are, by their very nature, easily cheaters. In one way or another, during these years, you have claimed that they will find opportunities, and they will. Don't take such a dogmatic view that they're probably cheating. I don't think that's right. Do you feel and see that this bill increases the administrative burden on businesses, or do you think that will not happen? Everyone says that this burden is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U279	Thank you. Don't come to me with such an insincere tirate! You know very well the temptations and practices of entrepreneurship. The aim is to optimise taxes, but they are also simply trying to deceive them. The state must make such rules so that taxation is fair and also a statistical result in the case of tax receipts is guaranteed. It is clear that there is no situation in any country where the amount of unpaid taxes would be zero. It is up to us to ensure that as much tax is collected as possible. Do not pretend that entrepreneurs are not trying to pay less taxes. Luckily, there are those who say he doesn't need this shit, he pays the tax. I've dealt with business accounting in a way or in a different way. My husband's a financial manager too, and he says a lot of things so he won't mess with it, he'll pay the tax. It's possible to think that way, but not everyone thinks that way. The tax administration knows this situation, but as your practitioner, you also know that. So don't bluff!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U280	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U281	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This debate in this Chamber gives the impression that everyone is opposed to the draft under way. Do entrepreneurs, or our former good partners from the IRL, also object to increasing compensation from EUR 256 to EUR 335 for the performance of their duties in the use of a private car? I mean, of course, an increase in the tax-free compensation rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U282	Thank you. I haven't heard against it yet. This will also have a mitigating effect on the tax burden. But in this debate, we have heard more than arguments of genuine hypocrisy. Mr Sester, too, has just come to claim that man is by nature honest, as if I were subjugating honest people who are trying to pay taxes by submitting drafts of the law. No, it is in every person's nature to try to save, among other things, from paying taxes. Some do it honestly, some do it dishonestly. That's it. However, the statistical result could be feasible for the country to cover its expenses and to cover even, for example, the budgetary requests of the Ministers of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which were always the highest in the last few governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U283	Question two, Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I still don't quite understand why this bill punishes a salesman who travels over 1,200 miles a month. This means that the salesman works for more than one week without paying the special preferential tax. However, this work, carried out in two or three weeks' time, should be subject to a special preferential tax. In the future, does the Ministry of Finance want to start taxing the work done on equipment, which is much faster than manual work? Such a comparison is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U285	Now, I don't know if the next question comes about why the state is punishing a poor member of the Riigikogu and collecting taxes from him. The tax is not a penalty, the tax is a collection of revenue for the benefit of the state budget. Optimal decisions must be made here, because the tax burden must not be too high and the subject of the tax must be fair. It is certainly very fair to tax car use rather than revenue. If you're talking about the scale of the penalty, this salesman will definitely charge a little more if he gets new tax claims. However, as I have already said, tax rulings are always considered and business choices are also considered. Does a salesman really drive only a personal car during intensive sales? I doubt it. He must be quite a wealthy man if he spends his own car on such a thing. But the rules laid down by law must offer him these choices, and he must again be optimal in making his expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U286	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U287	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that revenue and expenditure must be balanced in the state budget. It seems to me that a lot of promises have been made lately about spending. In this year's state budget, revenue from VAT on company cars is 21 million euros. Why are you planning revenue in the budget that you are not sure about? How do you cover the missing part?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U288	Thank you. All budgets shall be made in such a way as to comply with the laws on which they are based. This budget was based, among others, on this draft law. If this law is not passed, the Riigikogu has made the right decision by replacing revenue with other revenue on the basis of this bill. But this substitution was not sustainable, which is why it would be very responsible if you also adopted this law, which guarantees a fair tax base over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U289	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I certainly do not agree with you as if people were dishonest. This is the demagoguery you did here with the abolition of the benefit of sports clubs. It's a demagogue pattern. But I'm asking to be more precise. You have gone to several political groups to talk about this. In our group, too, you once mentioned that when the Mercedesman, the head of the company, travels home after the end of the working day, it is not a work trip. I now have a very specific question: if the minister finishes his job and the driver drives him home, what kind of ride is it, a work trip or a private drive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U291	First of all, Mr Arrow, I do not know if I want to answer you at all, because you do not accept information in the normal way, but you accept it with distortion. I didn't say people were dishonest. I say that there are those among the entrepreneurs who are very honest and pay the taxes because it is easier, and they say that it is also fairer, but there are those who are evading the taxes. Usually, a person tries to save when he or she has money to pay, and he or she can do so in an honest or dishonest way. I said it. As far as the Minister is concerned, unfortunately, the Minister's report includes a car with a special status. For example, the Ministry of Finance is paying special preferential tax for this, just as I am now using the wrong word of social and income tax. I pay for parking at home myself, I have not submitted this bill to the taxpayer. You guys be so good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U292	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U293	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm gonna have to disprove your misinformation for the verbatim. During the long years when I was able to participate in the government, the ministers' budget for the Reform Party usually increased more, only the Ministry of Finance took account of this base, and these ministers did not need to submit any additional applications to this extent. One of the most vivid examples was the Ministry of Finance, whose staff costs continued to increase exceptionally during the years of the cut. Remember that! But I also have a question. Are you aware of any honest people other than yourself in the Republic of Estonia, or are there none of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U294	Well, I'm sure one person isn't honest, that's you. The Ministry of Finance has always set an example in terms of both staff and other expenditure cuts. We haven't had any constant extra costs. The government has agreed once or twice to increase the number of tax inspectors. However, as a result, tax receipts increased several times more, with a difference of about 1 to 10. It was a government decision that you approved. As far as the comparison between the two parties is concerned, this should not, of course, be the main subject of the debate on this draft, but the basis is still being recorded for the costs prescribed by law, and nothing else. One bright example. In general, the budget of the Minister for Social Affairs generally increases the most, but the reason is that these expenditures are provided for by law. For example, pension increases are included in the budget of the Minister for Social Affairs, which often provoked the disapproval of the coalition partner IRL a few years ago. It was said that something had to be done to put an end to this increase in costs. Fortunately, the IRL found a solution to simply create money, saying that we are now parents. There are no restrictions, you can pay unlimited. Your logic was that. I remember these disputes when you never had any proposals to change the law in order, for example, to reduce social benefits. But the crap that social costs are growing the fastest was, yeah. They increased most rapidly, not in percentage terms, but in aggregate terms, because they represent the largest part of the budget. When you start to calculate additional requests for the budget, it is undoubtedly clear that your party was not the one who would have restrained itself. It was still the political party of the principal and finance minister who acted disciplinedly on additional requests. This is also natural because the responsibility of a larger and smaller coalition partner is different. I don't blame you. I blame you for rejecting the cost coverage that you have just announced. You claim that this is something unheard of, even though you yourself have approved the draft in the government without any argument against it, both the draft, the previous draft and what was adopted at third reading and which applies to the annex to the VAT return. All these drafts were necessary, in particular, to meet your additional requests. I wouldn't have wanted to have this debate here right now, but if you've changed your position so much according to your seat, it's fair to say it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U295	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U296	Thank you. Good minister! I'm sure your budget requests for years were bigger than Minister Kiisler, for example. So that's what you just gave the Riigikogu false information about. But can you conclude that next year budget expenditure will increase proportionally and in percentage, since the IRL is no longer in government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U297	I'm sorry for once! Honourable Riigikogu! We are discussing draft 643, initiated by the Government of the Republic and entitled 'Law amending the Tax Act'. It amends Paragraph 13 (3) (2) of the Income Tax Act. Such historical references to the nature of reminders are certainly emotionally interesting, but a different item on the agenda might be suitable for discussing them somewhere else in the Chamber. Nor have I noticed in the draft explanatory memorandum anything that would give rise to this debate here. But thank you, Minister, and please answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U298	Thank you, Mr President. This remark was undoubtedly appropriate, I would have liked this to have been the case. But without doubt, the draft is budgetaryly linked and if someone has radically changed their positions, it is very difficult to avoid mentioning this fact. I repeat that the Ministry of Finance has not submitted any additional requests for purposes other than IT development, which were carried out for the benefit of the entire government and government apparatus, and for the recruitment of tax officials by common accord, in order to ensure better collection of taxes and to cover rising costs. Now I'm addressing you personally because you were personal too. True, you were harmed by your peers, your wishes were great, but they didn't find support in your own party either. That's right. The Minister of Regional Affairs was in a weak position in the government, that is true. Maybe this is the fate of a briefcaseless minister, but I often felt sorry for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U299	Helir-Valdor Seeder has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have made a remark to the members of the Riigikogu that it is necessary to stay on the agenda. The draft came out of the agenda by a waitress. I have a comment to the President that we should also follow the draft waitress, not just the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U301	I made a remark about the whole debate, as far as I know. I would say that a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask whatever he or she wishes, and the respondent has the duty to answer that question. It was my business to draw attention to the item and its content. Any other questions for the initiator of the bill? It is. Siim Kiisler, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U302	Thank you, good manager. You said that the respondent had an obligation to answer the question, but I did not get an answer to my question. My question was this: now that the IRL is no longer in government, will budget expenditure increase proportionally and at a slower pace?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U303	Thank you. This should certainly be discussed in the context of another item on the agenda. After all, we do not have the budget for next year, that is what we can discuss in the autumn. The question has been somewhere else. The question is that the reason for today's discussions is not an increase in expenditure, but an increase in expenditure and additional requests. You've been hitting highs with these extra requests. It seems to me, based on the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy, that this year this record will not be set and that there will be no additional applications to compete, as unfortunately we often did during our cooperation. We had very good cooperation in many ways, but not in the sense that you would have taken into account the possibility of this game theory that maybe not bluffing or offering too much, because maybe half the question will be asked. Mutual trust in submitting applications would certainly have helped us in the budget discussions. I hope that the new government will be more in solidarity with one another in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U304	Thank you. There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. For the presentation of the committee, I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U305	There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 643 be completed. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has proposed to reject draft 643 at first reading. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to reject the draft law amending the Income Tax Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 8 members in favour of this proposal and 35 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 643 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 5.15 p.m. on 21 May. At the same time, the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 7 May, has ended. Closure of the sitting at 6.29 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U306	Ladies and gentlemen, What is there to deny, I probably cannot create such an interesting and nostalgic debate, but I will still give an overview of what was believed in the Commission on this draft. Like the previous draft, which in some respects relates to this draft, it was also discussed on 21 April and offered the possibility of an additional debate on 6 May, then in a wider society. I will give a brief overview of what was being asked and answered by the Commission. The Commission was interested in whether, if all journeys were to be accounted for, this ceiling could not be abolished at all. It was questioned whether its introduction was really necessary because it was said to be possible to walk three times in Tartu and to have the upper limit, and it was said to be limited. In this hall, again, I heard that only twice can Tartu be visited. The representative of the Ministry replied that the company was able to make choices on how to organise its activities. If the nature of the work is more related to the movement of the car, for example, it is probably more reasonable if the company itself has a car in order not to compensate the employee for the use of a private car. It was also mentioned that, in the case of a posting, it is possible to reimburse the actual cost of the mission on the basis of a regulation of the Government of the Republic. The actual impact of the draft, in particular on the budget, was also examined. In response, it was found that if the law entered into force on 1 July, this could represent an additional revenue of EUR 1,35 million. It was announced that there had been no substantive work on the draft, no substantive discussions with the stakeholders. According to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the stakeholders have been able to comment on the draft. Compared to the draft discussed earlier, the exemption threshold has been raised and this has been the result of negotiations with economic operators. Partly inspired by this argument, the Commission decided, as in the case of draft 644 previously on the agenda, to offer organisations representing companies that have approached the Committee on Monetary Affairs the opportunity to express their views on the round table. This took place at the meeting on 6 May, although it focused on the draft amending the VAT Act. Now I'm talking about procedural decisions. At its meeting on 21 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided (6 votes to 3) to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 days, i.e. 21 May, at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U307	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Mr Sester will have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll talk in a few words about this bill. A true story, as the Minister for Finance, who is the principal rapporteur for the draft, or representative of the actual preparer, said, is a longer process that can be seen as a process of the so-called three laws, as Mr Ligi mentioned. These three laws are the so-called 'thousand euro' law and the Motor Vehicle Tax Act and the Car Tax Act, i.e. the laws on possible special preferential taxes. Two issues we have been talking about today, and now at last there is a third issue. The true story, the round table that the Committee on Monetary Affairs organised, was about the same problems. The rate has not changed for any of these legislative changes. Businesses are asking whether we should take one or the other step, why we are doing it and with what effect it is. The draft at issue now has an annual impact of around EUR 3 million. It is stated here, if I am not mistaken, that EUR 1,35 or 1.4 million per half-year if the law were to apply on 1 July, which means EUR 3 million per year. The question is that it comes at the expense of someone, in this example, at the expense of entrepreneurs. Got it. After all, there is nothing wrong with this change if it is understandable and justified. The representatives of business organisations at the table were first concerned about the possible increase in administrative burdens. Their concern was well - founded. Another concern is the increase in administrative burdens, which is in contradiction with the principles of proportionality. This was also made very clear by the operators. Let us look at this debate on VAT. What has been pointed out in the case of VAT? Firstly, questions have been raised as to why it is desirable to eliminate the possibility of deducting 50% of input VAT. It is said that it is difficult to use a car for their own use and to check it later. In this respect, the aim is to create a situation of a priori removing the possibility to deduct 50% of VAT from businesses. The reason is that it is very difficult to control captive use, i.e. private travel. Should we not, at the moment when we justify it in this way, think about abolishing the preferential tax as such at all? After all, we are taking this money from the real entrepreneurs, in the case of the present example, in the form of additional withholding of VAT. If we say that there should be a special discount for the personal use of a professional car (that is not what we are talking about today) or for the use of a personal car for business travel, should this limit not be higher? If, on the one hand, we are talking about EUR 64, which is a wage supplement within the meaning of Jürgen Ligi, being abolished, being replaced by accounts, driving logbooks, is the threshold proposed for EUR 335 sufficient or not? I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U309	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U310	Up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U311	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U312	Is that enough or not? It is noted that shifting the threshold by one, five or ten euros reduces the potential revenue of the state budget. Yeah, that's right. If there is no special preferential tax or limit, there will be no revenue at all. That's right. Where does it make sense to draw the line? I think that this should definitely be discussed with entrepreneurs. Once again, I come to the point that the same handwriting has been observed in all these drafts: there has been no real debate. That's what makes me sad. We are doing round tables in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and we are creating working groups, of course, we have to do this. But this job could have been done sooner. That is what the IRL has said about almost all of these drafts. Ladies and gentlemen of coalition parties, good Reform Party and good accountant Ligi! View those affected by this law a little more seriously, engage in dialogue and do not say that opinions are different anyway. This isn't going anywhere. We look at this whole block together, just as the government has watched, bringing these drafts to the Riigikogu under different, but successive numbers. We recommend that these issues be dealt with together: VAT, income tax, special preferential taxes. Therefore, the IRL Group proposes to reject the draft 643 and send it to the Government of the Republic so that after more in-depth discussions it can come back to the Riigikogu and continue to process all drafts together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U313	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Mr Ansip will have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-07_U314	Good President! Honourable Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group supports the completion of the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. This is a bill originally drawn up by the government, which included both the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. At present, this same draft has been presented in a slightly more lenient form by the new government. I can't avoid going into a nostalgic debate either. I remember seven years in government with the Fatherland and Res Publica Union as very busy years. I have a request to my former government partners that they respect all the good and beautiful things we did together for seven years. There is no reason to create the impression now that the IRL has been a smaller partner, humiliated or pushed in the government for all seven years. In my opinion, it was a good government and we were equal partners there. But when I come back to the bill, I say that we support the completion of this first reading and further processing in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
