ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! There's no call. So I'm asking, good colleagues, that we do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U2	Let's start with today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of Aare Heinvee, Aivar Riisalu, Arto Aasa, Barbi Pilvre, Eiki Nestori, Enn Eesmaa, Heljo Pikhofi, Imre Sooääre, Indrek Saare, Jaak Allik, Jüri Jaansoni, Jüri Morozov, Kadri Simson, Kalle Jents, Kalle Pallingu, Karel Rüütli, Kristen Michali, Laine Randjärve, Lauri Laas, Lauri Luige, Mailis Repsi, Maimi Bergi, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Mati Raidma, Meelis Mälberg, Neeme Suur, Olga Sõtniku, Rainer Vakra, Rait Maruste, Rait Vassijevi, Rein Aidma, Remo Holsmer, Tarmo Leinamme, Tatana Jaansoni, Tiina Lokk-Trambergi and Valdo Randpere. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kristen Michali, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! It is customary in the Riigikogu to ask for more time for my speech, I asked for more time, just in case, although much has been said today. The law of cohabitation broke the myth that the Estonian was closed. We, including me directly, have received a lot of letters in which the writer says that he is an ordinary person with a story and recommends either to accept or not to accept the law of cohabitation. These are very personal stories, nothing ordinary. Someone already said that the stories they sent were actually book material. To begin with, I would like to thank all those who have taken the trouble to write from the heart and to express their support or opposition. It gave you something to think about. But the thing. The Cohabitation Act is necessary to solve everyday problems in real life. This is the first feature of a good law, this is the law that is needed. In everyday life, most children are born to couples who live together and are not married. Some are no longer married, most maybe not yet. Most of whom I speak are, by the way, special-sex couples, probably like Varro But maybe I'm wrong, he may have made an oferd about the marriage, and the bride gave the acceptance at the first meeting. Sorry about the joke, but life without black humor would be pretty gray. But back to the subject. Kids just keep being born, but sometimes parents break up. In general, it is not a festive event such as graduating from school, rather it involves mixed emotions and incomprehension. At other times, it is discovered that in real life, the weaker side is left unprotected because the property has not been identified at the right time. Yet it was a step away from two smiles and perhaps a 15-minute drive. A weaker party, often one who has supported a partner's career and raised children together, is left unprotected. Sometimes it's a man, I think, more often a woman. If we assume that this means doing worse and having poorer opportunities for children's development, then it is something that we have to deal with. Who would resist it? There are still reasons for this law. It is also a question of other everyday activities. Who are you legally if you want to go somewhere with the kids and you're not their biological parent? Real life again. Further: housing loan and benefits issues, hospital visit etc. The purpose of this law is to give people a better chance to organise their daily affairs without having legal education or having to hire a lawyer and to act on the principle of stronger protection for the weaker. The law of cohabitation was born as a result of years of debate. The Ministry of Justice carried out an analysis of non-marital relations already in 2009. In 2011, we started a fundamental debate with political parties, stakeholders and the public in order to find a solution. In 2011, the Chancellor of Justice also found that the current legal framework does not provide sufficient protection of rights for parties living together in fact. Discussions have been long and constructive, in which we considered different options, starting from the fact that nothing needs to be changed until the model contract package to facilitate people's lives, as well as the opening up of the institution of marriage. We finally made the choice in favour of the Cohabitation Act. In the second half of 2011, three of the four parliamentary parties considered it necessary to deal with the topic of cohabitation and it took a little while for it to become an opportunity to discuss it in the Riigikogu. Of course, as politicians, they could not have dealt with the issue or taken some time off, as one of the two IRL leaders offered helpfully. This really is not a thing that cuts voices like a story and is the dream of every politician, as is always a success, for example, in the fight against the increase in the price of alcohol-related vices and heating and in the reduction of our wages. Yet, we decided to move on with it. I think this was the right thing for a lot of reasons, even if it is because Estonia is really very small. There are too few people here to build tall gardens between them, peek over them and judge ironically the actions of our neighbor, which we like to do. Where we are today is the result of earlier work. Many people who never shine in the spotlight have contributed to finding a solution and preparing a draft. Sincere gratitude for the work they've done! The Cohabitation Act gives you the possibility to register your cohabitation. It doesn't replace or change a marriage. The law allows matters of everyday life, which are mostly issues of different sexes, sometimes also issues of same-sex couples. Was it scary? We can try to close our eyes and say that there are no such people or just mock them. As happens at school sometimes when no one is well dressed, skilled, wise, beautiful, or strong enough. We all grow up and realize how wrong it was or how difficult it must have been to be bullied. Let's not look away, let's solve the issues! Saying that people who want to live their family life differently, while respecting and loving one another, can do so. It doesn't make anyone's life worse and it doesn't take an ounce away from anyone, but it adds a lot, a lot. I often hear and sometimes I talk about lawyers of anecdotes, men, Estonians, politicians, sometimes children and fathers, sometimes also glasses. None of these roles are the only ones who determine who I am. The same should apply to the choices of a person's life; we do not have to tell others how to live their lives. That's freedom. It is good if we can give it opportunities, good if Estonia is a slightly more tolerant and friendly place to live. Since there is a lot of misunderstanding and misinformation involved in the Cohabitation Act, I will quickly go over a few more things. The law of cohabitation doesn't force anyone to change their preferences. It's not like they're already reading from school for a couple! ', and to your surprise, you'll find a couple of gym-familiar Mats, now with mustaches. The law does not force anyone to go to a notary or to live together against his will. For example, it is not the case that you go to work in the morning, and the night you return home, someone else is waiting for you instead of your dear wife, looking at you and saying, "Hello, the new law of partnership!" If that happens, please let me know! Igor Gräzini and I have an agreement that he will leave immediately and settle. There's been a lot of shit going on. There have been people who have gone beyond the borders of a constructive debate by tagging labels so that their credibility has been damaged. However, the process as a whole has been quite balanced and constructive. The press, which we usually judge as politicians, also deserves a sincere compliment for not making a bomb with a high explosive force. The treatment of the subject has been quite balanced and avoids extremeity. Today's decision expresses political will and choice. If the choice is to adopt the law on partnership, then from here on, lawyers have a lot of work to do. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2016. October 9th is the day in the history of the world when slavery was abolished in Costa Rica. In New Zealand, the authorization to sell alcohol to the inn on 9 October was revoked only until 6:00 p.m. The reason was that the ban that he had originally thought of restricting drinking taught an entire generation of men to reject the glass very quickly. The death penalty was abolished in France on 9 October, and John Lennon was born on 9 October, who in his song Imagine wanted to dream of a world where people have fewer borders. I think that is exactly what we are deciding on today. As a Liberal, I am always happy when the world gains a piece of freedom. There are many in the Reform Party Group who think that the law is ready, as well as those who do not. And after this vote, we will proceed with respect for each other's different opinions and experiences. I wish the same to all those who are in favour and who are opposed. It's not the end of anything. It's a more free world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U4	Thank you. A rejoinder. Very good response, Igor Gräzin! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U5	Kristen, please don't leave! At the end, you touched on a subject I wanted to ask you about. I mean, liberalism and siege, etc. Tell me if you think it's right for a liberal world view that alcohol is sold from 10:00 to 10:00. I am in favour of the sale 24/7.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U6	Thank you. I now ask the Riigikogu to speak as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U7	Good friends! I will start with two remarks on what has been bothering me with this draft, and then I will get to the point. The first remark is that this bill has been submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings by 40 members of the Riigikogu. This 40 members are a minority of the Riigikogu. And the initiators of this draft have, on several occasions, been sought to add other names up to the coalition. I have to protect the members of the Riigikogu because of my position. By naming this name, good people, you are hurting the people who have initiated this draft, but are not part of the current union of power, as are the people who support this government, but did not initiate it. So, please, let's be precise, this is part of the MPs' bill! Secondly, there has been a great deal of debate on the content of the draft, as it is gender-neutral. I congratulate the working group that prepared the draft for the fact that it is gender neutral. This isn't the introduction of false goods under any other sign. Think the other way around: if we say clearly that we have a legitimate marriage and now we have the possibility of registering a partnership, but this right only for couples of the same sex, then we should explain why couples of different sexes do not have the right to register their partnership. I can't explain it. There is no justification for this. It must be based on the same equal opportunities that people have. In this sense, the subject of the Cohabitation Act has been conceptually correctly taken up. Today must have been a long time since we talked about the sections of the law. It's all attitude. I was thinking yesterday morning before that fiery day that was coming, what our people could think about all of this in their homes. I believe that a couple of children in their 30s who registered their marriage in church about ten years ago took them to kindergarten thought about that too, and they don't really understand why this is so important. But surely some part for those who are more active in politics and who may have friends, who they think about, is the law that will be passed, and that doesn't bother them. Yesterday, Mr Kaljuvee gave a very warm talk about people my age. I tell you, sincerely and honestly, that children and grandchildren are growing in my family, but I cannot explain in my family, as a 60-year-old person, why I do not initiate such a law and why I do not support it. I just wouldn't be understood. I wouldn't be able to explain it to myself either, because I believe that people must have equal rights. At the same time, I understand those of my age who have had some strange feeling about this incomprehensible bill for them, some fear that if this law is passed, maybe someone will come and kiss under their window. I think that when the law is passed and the law has come into force, they will see that no one walks under their window, and they will be calmer. I also believe that some of the couples of different sexes living together received the thought of whether or not to register their cohabitation if this law was adopted, as a result of this serious discussion. Whether they do or not, it is not so important, it is important that they have this opportunity. It is just as important for people of the same sex and living together. For them, too, it is important that this is an opportunity. And I believe that even more important to them is that something has been said in society during this debate. And the place where society says something is also the Riigikogu. They don't have to be ashamed of who they are. This flood of opinions that you have seen in your e-mails and other writings or debates over the last six months is remarkable. These people, however, have been under pressure from such opinions since they realized who they were. Let us understand them! I am terribly sorry that one of the weakest communities in our society, consisting of a mother and a child, was once again insulted. I don't know if these insulters did it on purpose or not, but when these mothers watched TV on Sunday night, they felt lonely again. That's a shame. I want to end with a clear call. I didn't like it in the whole debate, and I don't understand it if someone's either going to come to this talking room or do it somewhere else and pat on the person's shoulder and say, you know, I don't really have anything against you, but... I don't think it's here, though. And if someone tries to hide behind some "but," it's pure Phariseeism. I don't know, Lembit, did I help you? Really, this bill contains the spirit of the '90s. Then, good friends, there were such hot laws in front of us three pieces a month, now there's one in four years. Of course, it is good that we have also had a heated political debate, but let us remain human in all this. Let us support this law. Believe me, we're gonna do the big thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U8	Thank you. There's no more calls. Still, it wasn't ten seconds ago, it is now. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start today's speech, recalling the first reading of this bill on 18 June. Then, on behalf of the initiators of the draft, the rapporteur said from this very speaker: 'This draft has become a real test of tolerance, liberality, as well as honesty for politicians and everyone interested in it. I call on all the debaters on this draft to be, above all, honest today and in the future. ' I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that it's the protagonists themselves who haven't been able to be honest about this. I quote once again at the meeting on 18 June: 'Let everyone who has not understood it or has not wanted to understand it be told at the outset: the Cohabitation Act does not legalise the marriage of same-sex couples in Estonia and does not give the same-sex couples the right to adopt. Once again, I say very slowly and with a loud and clear voice: the law of cohabitation does not legalise the marriage of same-sex couples in Estonia and does not give the same-sex couples the right to adopt. ' Unfortunately, that statement was not already true. This bill allows adoption. True, with some limitations. These restrictions are left to the judgement of the case law. I am not discussing here whether it could be good or not, whether it is necessary or not. I'm referring to the public being misled. One of the places of wrestling is also how the draft, which called for 51 people to vote in favour, received the draft, for which only a simple majority of votes is sufficient. In particular, procedural rules have been removed from the draft text, how action can be brought, how litigation takes place, etc. In the public interview, the lead judge of the draft has stressed that the fact that these provisions were originally in the draft is a mistake for the author of the draft, an accident at work. Such provisions are not allowed to exist in this law; they are said to be all together in the law on legal proceedings. I would point out that similar provisions have been very nicely incorporated into the current family law, which was only recently adopted in this Chamber. Strangely enough, they fit into family law. The truth is that the withdrawal of these standards was the solution to getting away from 51 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, what honesty can we talk about in such proceedings? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but that honesty is not allowed, because they tried to mislead people at the beginning of the procedure. It was stressed that this law was needed, in particular, for couples currently in common-law relationships, that this law would provide them with protection by protecting the weaker party at the end of the factual partnership. It should be recalled that the actual protection of the weaker party at the end of the factual partnership would have given the IRL the amendments to the Family Act presented at the beginning of the summer. Unfortunately, the government coalition threw them aside without further ado. In the case of the Cohabitation Act, however, the truth is that it does not provide automatic protection, but creates an additional form of contract which, if notarised, gives rise to some protection. In order to conclude this agreement, too, we need to say a clear yes at the notary. However, the real reason why the draft law on cohabitation was proposed is to create a special contractual institution for couples of the same sex. It would have been fair to say this right away; the debate would have been much more constructive, more honest, more respectful. This could have led to a debate that would join the various opinions rather than separate them. People aren't stupid, they've seen through these false reasonings. We are now in a situation where such a way-led procedure has raised more questions in people than has provided answers. At every moment, people have been forced to observe what is still being used to deceive them, at which point the wrong is being sworn. Unfortunately, this bill, which has spoken of tolerance and tolerance, has divided society, created more fear and doubts. Unfortunately, it is not true that this bill does not take anything away from anyone, but it adds much to some couples. A number of important things have already been taken away from people by the way they deal with the draft. It has deprived people of the hope that they will be spoken to honestly and has taken away the hope that their own elected Riigikogu will take into account their express opinion. It has led us to doubt whether we have the right enshrined in the Constitution for everyone to our personal convictions, without fear of discrimination and labelling for their possession and expression. It has also taken away the belief that children's interests will be put at the forefront in the preparation of such laws. It is the lack of protection of children's interests that is a real weakness of this bill. Similarly, the so-called basic package of the law also lacks, for example, the obligation to maintain a cohabitant after the end of the partnership. There is also no obligation to maintain a common ex-wife waiting for a child or raising a baby, as well as the obligation to communicate with a child who grows in the family, and, for example, when concluding a cohabitation agreement, the partner's child may not be contacted until after the judgment has been given. The current procedure of this bill is an example of bad legislation. This is an example of how society is being divided, not looking for a common part or consensus, but labelling people of different opinion. It would have been better if we had interrupted the second reading yesterday in this Chamber, had not said 'yes' or 'no', but would have taken some time off to speak honestly and respectfully of all the real problems without hiding them. However, there is still a moment where there is an opportunity to correct errors, to take time off, to talk to people, to discuss honestly and openly, and to find the necessary and appropriate solutions to the problems raised together. This is the only way to achieve greater social cohesion, increase tolerance and faith in your country. That is why, on behalf of the IRL Group, I call for this bill not to be voted into law. Let's take some time off and try to rebuild lost trust! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U10	Thank you. I would like to ask Kadri Simson, the representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Like you, in the last few weeks and days, I have read many moving appeals both for and against this law. I think both positions can and must be accepted. In the Centre Party Group, each of our members has consulted themselves, as well as their family and loved ones, as well as their voters. We have decided that this bill, which concerns people's private lives, will be assessed by us, which each of us will make after consulting ourselves, our loved ones and our voters. I am pleased that this draft is a law in which people from all four political parties represented in the Riigikogu are among the initiators. I know there are people in every party who see the pros of this bill, and there are people who see the cons. Among my loved ones are people who see half the arguments and those who see the arguments against them. But most of all, among the people that matter to me, there are those who say that this law doesn't change anything in their lives. For them, different decisions are needed from this Riigikogu to improve their lives. And this is the principle that the Centre Party Group is pursuing today. The Riigikogu needs to make decisions that change Estonia's course of action. This law, however, provides an opportunity for two adults to register their cohabitation. Our group will vote as everyone's own gut says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U12	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 650. Dear colleagues, I will put 650 draft laws on partnership initiated by members of the Riigikogu to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. The draft law on partnership initiated by members of the Riigikogu 650 has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]] The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U13	We will move on to the second item, which is the second reading of the Act amending the Government Act and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings in preparation for second reading: 15 and 23 September. In the committee, it was quite unanimous that it was very welcome to have the Riigikogu involved in the procedure for the nomination of a Member of the European Commission. At its meeting on 15 September, the Commission examined the amendment tabled by the Central Party Group. The Centre Party was of the opinion that the Riigikogu should adopt a binding voting decision on the candidate, which requires even two thirds of the votes of the members. Parliament will either approve or reject the candidate. Most of the members of the committee were of the opinion that it would not be reasonable to create the possibility of a conflict between our own Parliament and the European Parliament by a binding decision to be adopted by the Riigikogu. The European Parliament may not approve the proposed candidates and we are back on track. It was therefore considered that, in the interests of a more public debate of the Commissioner-designate, he could make a presentation before the Riigikogu's plenary, present his views and ask him questions in order to determine his suitability for this office. However, the Riigikogu should not make a binding decision. It also discussed the procedural arrangements for the identification and hearing of a member of the Commission. Is it necessary to amend the existing regulation or can we move forward within the existing regulation? The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu currently allows this House to discuss the Commissioner-designate as an important national issue, just as we did here only recently. This disadvantage was highlighted by the fact that the debate on a crucial national issue can be initiated by the Riigikogu Commission and a political group, where a political group can initiate a debate on a very important national issue a year. There would also be no direct obligation to discuss the Commissioner-designate in plenary. It would therefore be reasonable to provide for a specific regulation to that effect, which is what this bill is trying to do. The third substantive question that was discussed in the Commission was that, if we foresee a procedure for dealing with a candidate for a Member of the Commission, it must be taken into account that a judge of the Court of Justice has the same status at European level. However, the nomination of a judge of the Court of Justice is the responsibility of the executive and Parliament has no opportunity to make a substantial contribution in this regard. Perhaps the candidacy will only be coordinated with the European Union Affairs Commission. Therefore, the proposal is such that a candidate for a judge of the Court of Justice can also be more legitimized by bringing this person before, for example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his report and to be interviewed by the members of the Commission. The members of the Commission agreed with this proposal and so it received a letter in the draft. The Commission also took procedural decisions. It was found that this draft should be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting by 9 October, which was a unanimous decision That decision was unanimous, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-09_U15	Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will begin the examination of the draft amendments. The first amendment is from the lead committee. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, this proposal will not be voted on. The third proposal is from the lead committee. The fourth proposal is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. We have examined the amendments. Thank you! The position of the commission was that the second reading should be completed. Second reading is over. We wish the draft power between second and third readings! Dear colleagues, there are no more items on the agenda today. The sitting is adjourned. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.36 a.m.
