ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U1	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 26 February, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: 1) the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft Act amending § 6 of the Estonian Flag Act, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; 2) The Social Democratic Party Group. a § 121 of the Political Party Act was initiated on 19 February; the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; 3) The Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending § 127 of the Political Party Act, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; (4) the Social Democratic Party Group. The draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, (5) in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The draft law amending the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and the Act on the Organisation of Local Government, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; (6) the Social Democratic Party Group. 7) The Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu and Supplementing the State Assets Act, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; 8) Social Democratic Party Group. The draft law amending the Government Act and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; 9) The Social Democratic Party Group. The draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated on 19 February, is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Good luck handling these drafts! Let's move on. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following to the Government of the Republic. Drafts submitted on 20 February to the Committee on European Union Affairs. Firstly, the European Union's 2030 climate and energy policy framework. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 27, 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the draft decision of the Council of the European Union on the conclusion of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the draft regulation on the technical implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 13 March 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the European Union's air pollution reduction package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 13 March 2010 at 4 p.m. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Dear colleagues, before we go to today's agenda, we must first endorse the agenda to which we are going, i.e. the agenda for the sixth working week. We shall begin the preparation of the vote on the adoption of the agenda. Dear colleagues, I will vote on the agenda for the sixth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu are neither opposed nor impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U2	We can now go to the first item on the Tuesday agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Defence Union Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 458. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put draft 458 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 72 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and one is impartial. The draft law amending the Defence Union Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 458 has been adopted as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U3	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Appointing the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank" submitted by Mart Laari, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which bears the number 593. This is a draft concerning the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and follows from Article 8 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act. According to this section, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank submits a draft decision to the Riigikogu with the proposal to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board. According to this draft, Kalev Kallo, Kaie Kerem, Enn Listra, Rein Minka, Jaanus Tamkivi, Liina Tõnisson and Urmas Varblane are appointed to the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. All the above candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank meet the requirements laid down in § 8 of the Eesti Pank Act. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U5	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Quiet, please! We respect the waitress and those who want to listen. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U6	Thank you. The draft was discussed by the Commission. At the meeting on 17 February, Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, presented the draft. All candidates have agreed to apply and have successfully passed a security check on the basis of § 112 of the Eesti Pank Act or already have the right of access to state secrets mentioned in § 112 of the Eesti Pank Act. Pursuant to § 117 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this draft decision of the Riigikogu is discussed at a single reading. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to place the first reading of the draft on the agenda on Tuesday 25 February and to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U7	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that a final vote must also be taken at first reading of draft 593. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 593 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against and one is impartial. Draft 593 of the Riigikogu decision " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank" submitted by Mart Laari, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has been adopted as a decision. The second item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U8	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission. We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. [[In the diner.]] I also ask for silence, there is still too much noise in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U9	Hi! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at quite a number of meetings, most recently on 18 February 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U10	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, the manager can't do his job, I'm asking you to help the manager! I ask you to keep it down a little bit, otherwise this bill 499 can't really be discussed in this hall! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U11	This draft mainly concerns two issues, accessibility of bus stations for disabled people and the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation. These were the issues the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs focused on. There is also a point in the draft concerning the authorisation of direct rail transport contracts, but this is not related to the directive. The content of the questions and the debate was that the European Commission has opened infringement proceedings because the directive on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and accessibility for persons with disabilities has not been transposed in time. The officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that they had had meetings with the European Commission's Consumer Protection Directorate and that they had promised that this draft would be adopted during the first quarter. The question was whether, if we adopt this draft, the grounds for initiating infringement proceedings would be lost. The answer was that it depends on the Commission's will. The Commission itself has the right to apply for a fine for days overdue by the deadline for transposition of the Directive. This means that even if the draft is adopted, every day, which goes beyond the deadline, poses a penalty risk. We also discussed the state of the dispute about direct contracts in the Supreme Court. That is why we have constantly postponed the debate on the draft law on public transport. We were told that the Supreme Court was known to make a decision on 5 March. The opinions of the members of the Commission were divided here. Some felt that the law subsequently adopted could not affect the judgment in the current case. The second opinion was that the dispute is about what was the legislator's will to introduce regulation, and that, in the meantime, when the legislator states his will, it is definitely a signal to the court. There was also a question of whether it would be possible to postpone the discussion of this draft in order to wait for the Supreme Court's decision. On this point, the officials replied that the possible fine for the infringement would increase every day by which we would postpone the adoption of the draft. The question was raised in the wording of § 59, additional paragraph 24 of the Public Transport Act. We are talking about regular services with an important part, including at least one scheduled stop, outside the European Union. In the previous debate, what is meant by the term 'essential part' was left open, because it has not been defined in any way in European legislation either. The answer was that, as an important part, it is planned to deal with regular services where at least one stop is outside Estonia, and the only substantive problem actually concerns the connection with Russia. Access to bus stations for disabled people was discussed, as the draft annex contains a list of bus stations. The officials of the Ministry said that the European Commission acknowledged that the requirement to designate a bus station is not unambiguously clear, but it is certainly not the intention of the regulation that a Member State does not designate any bus station that meets the requirements of the Regulation. The second extreme, where all bus stations have been designated by some Member States, is not acceptable, even though they do not actually meet the requirements of the Regulation. The representatives of the European Commission visited Estonia, including Tallinn Bus Station, and the question arose as to why it is not planned to list other Estonian bus stations except Tallinn. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that the Narva bus station is basically a warm place, Pärnu and Tartu bus station are going to be rebuilt. The Tallinn bus station is in private hands, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a prior agreement that owners will take the necessary steps to comply quickly. There are also two amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Juku-Kalle Raid and it concerns the conclusion of direct contracts in railway traffic. The Commission decided to take full account of this proposal (5 votes to 4, with 1 abstention). The second amendment is the direct award of contracts for the provision of passenger transport services in road traffic. The Commission's proposal has been rejected (two members in favour of the amendment, 7 against and 7 abstentions). It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 25 February, that the second reading be closed (this was a consensual decision), and that when the second reading is closed, the draft be sent to the third reading by 27 February 2014 and that the final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U12	Thank you. You have questions too. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your report, you said that, in the case of a judgment that has not yet been served, the legislator's signal may be either the opposite or the opposite, i.e. to speak of supporting the point of direct contracts. With support for the Juku-Kalle Raid amendment, we gave a signal, now to support South Western Railway. How do you view this signal? Do you think that South Western Railway might have had any influence on the supporters of this proposal if we now gave such a signal?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U14	No, I didn't. The minutes of the Commission's sitting and the explanatory memorandum reflect the debate we had in the Commission. We did not take a position on whether or not to authorise direct contracts, because we also have in the process the full text of the Public Transport Act where this amendment has been tabled and it would be more appropriate to discuss it with it. Ministry officials also provided such an explanation in the Commission. After all, the judgment states that direct contracts are permitted for two years. During this period, we will be able to deal with the matter nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U15	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U16	Thank you. I have a very specific question. Resolving or ending relations with South Western Railways became ugly by the state, just as the Estonian state has tended to behave uglyly towards private companies in very many respects over the last year. However, as I understand it, the amendment tabled by Mr Raidi can have a very clear influence on the trial. Would it not have been reasonable not to address this issue at the level of the legislator at all before clarity came to light? What expertise did you base on when you supported the Juku-Kalle amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U17	This amendment was made on a draft concerning the transposition of the directive and not on direct contracts. The draft relates to two things: access to bus stations for disabled people and the rights of passengers. The provision on the authorisation or non-authorisation of direct contracts did not fit into this context. Why couldn't it have been discussed later? We also asked the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications if we could wait for the verdict. It came to the point that every day you've been delayed comes with a penalty risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U18	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U19	I think that there is a much more serious dispute here, which is whether all the sections of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council should be reflected in our laws. When the laws were adjusted, they found that they didn't. Has the Committee on Economic Affairs reached any other conclusion on this draft or on this subject? And if so, the entire law on public transport should be rewritten.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U20	Thank you, very good question! Indeed, this provision, which the Ministry wishes to include in the law, is actually set out in a regulation directly applicable in Europe. However, since there has been a dispute and in the dispute the court has taken the view that, if this provision is not in the law, it means that direct contracts are prohibited. Therefore, a certain degree of clarity in this law would certainly be necessary. The question is simply whether clarity should come when the dispute is still ongoing or whether it is reasonable to clarify the matter after the dispute has been finally resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U21	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U22	Dear waitress, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the amendment by Juku-Kalle Raid has not been supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Justice. Does this mean that if the Riigikogu votes in it, as the Commission did, the government will withdraw the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U23	Thank you. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U24	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to examine the 499 amendments to the draft. Two amendments have been received. The first amendment is from Juku-Kalle Raid; the lead committee has taken full account of it. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U25	Thank you. Let's start preparing the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1 tabled by Mr Raid. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 36 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party; the commission has rejected the proposal. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U26	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U27	We will move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the report on the implementation of the Estonian security policy until 2015 in 2013. The rapporteur is Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Before we go to this item, let me also briefly present the procedure. First of all, the Minister of the Interior will report for up to 30 minutes. After that there are questions about members of the Riigikogu, one oral question may be asked. Subsequent negotiations involving political group representatives with speeches. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U28	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great pleasure for me to stand before you and once again to give an overview of the implementation of the main lines of security policy and the tasks assigned to us, the aim of which is, of course, to make Estonia a safer place. In short, this summary is also set out in the forewords of the Security Policy Report on two pages of the report on how we have increased security in recent years and, above all, in 2013. Very briefly, these are the keywords: less crime, more spared lives, more capacity to save lives and reduce injuries, more motivation for police and rescue, and more free-will and community involvement. In 2011, when I set priorities for the Ministry of the Interior, the aim was above all to make the living environment safer, safer and also more friendly. Over the last few years, we have worked hard to achieve this. For 2013, it can be said that the money has been invested and that the focus is primarily on prevention, saving human lives, and certainly on increasing the motivation of internal security workers. I am happy to introduce you today to the most important tasks and results. Firstly, prevention policy and reduction of accidents. In 2013, the number of accidents, i.e. traffic, fire and drowning deaths, was the lowest after Estonia regained independence. 184 people died, or 6% less than a year earlier. In nearly 20 years, as a result of our collective efforts, we have reduced the number of deaths more than four times, saving the lives of almost 600 people. It is clear that every human life is valuable, and it is possible to go from here, and we only have to go forward. That is why we have continued to make a significant contribution to prevention and to increase the preventive money almost two and a half times compared to 2011. There were also record few casualties in 2013, 47 fewer than seven people in 2012 and three and a half times less than in 2006. I am particularly pleased that the number of fires in residential buildings has fallen dramatically, which fell to 892 last year. In the year before last, this figure was more than 1000. However, careless handling of open fire, which caused half of the fires, remains a problem. It is therefore clear that we must continue to prevent fire safety. Significant progress has been planned here this year: we will increase the number of home visits more than twice. It will reach 8,000 this year and, for the first time under this system, rescuers will also take greater preventive action, especially around their rescue teams. So home visits, which are individually targeted at potential risk points, are the key to moving forward this year in the field of fire safety. The issue has been a very important one since 2012 of close-relationship violence, as well as family violence in popular languages, particularly in view of the attitude of the police and the prosecutor's office towards cases of close-relationship violence. In the last two years, we have followed the so-called 'zero tolerance' principle, which means that criminal proceedings are always opened whenever there is even the slightest legal basis for this. The police have paid particular attention to children who may be victims of close-relationship violence. Last year, the various activities of the Police and Border Guard Board were also aimed at more than 20000 children and around 2400 employees in educational institutions. In the near future, the aim is to make project-based lectures and training on prevention of violence a systematic part of parental and school education. There is a separate chapter in the Security Policy Report where you can read more about close-relationship violence. With regard to traffic, we can say so much that 81 people were killed in 2013 in road accidents, i.e. seven fewer than in the previous year, 2012. With a plan to strengthen traffic discipline, we have been determined to deal with the spring of 2012. This has meant much wider prevention activities, clearer and more thoughtful traffic surveillance. It can be said that, compared to 2012, drivers were tested about one fifth more than in the previous year. The monitoring capacity will continue to grow as two major projects will be implemented from this year: e-field and video evidence. This means that the police officer now spends much less time filling out procedural documents, so it is possible to pay more attention to traffic surveillance and, in connection with it, to potential offenders and deviant behaviour. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that last year, 37 of the victims died due to the malicious actions of the 37 leaders and 18 due to criminal negligence. That's almost two-thirds of the dead. A driver with a criminal traffic behaviour sits on a drunk head, drives at the wrong speed, does not use security equipment, drives recklessly and aggressively and does not consider others. These are the main causes of serious road accidents that cannot under any circumstances be viewed as tolerant by society. This year, drivers with criminal drunkenness are clearly targeted. In the last two years, we have done ten times the confiscation of vehicles, for example. This is a measure applicable to persons who are not affected in substance by any other sanction. This year, we will move forward with both the tightening of sanctions and the attention of criminal drunk drivers, and we hope to achieve a reduction in criminal drunkenness. There were fewer drunk drivers in traffic last year, but this was mainly due to a reduction in misdemeanourd driving. The second priority is the fight against serious covert crime. Last week you had an overview of criminal policy. I want to draw attention to the effective implementation of criminal policy. In particular, the strengthening of the Central Criminal Police can be highlighted here. In recent years, both last year and the year before, we have paid much more attention and allocated money to the fight against serious covert crime, i.e. to the prevention of drug crime, corruption and economic crime. In criminal investigations, the principle is to resolve the most effective crimes. Triple increases in the detection capacity of proceeds of crime, increases in seized and confiscated amounts. The more we can confiscate criminal profits, the less the criminal's zeal for similar crimes will be. Criminal proceeds are the source of the life force of the criminal world. Last year, more than €7.2 million of proceeds from crime were detected in 163 procedures. The Criminal Income Identification Office of the Central Criminal Police also works very well with the Tax and Customs Board and the Defence Police. Last year, for example, the Tax and Customs Board seized EUR 4.3 million of property in criminal matters. It is pleased that at the beginning of 2014, Riigikogu made an important amendment to the law, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted, making it more difficult to transfer illegally acquired property to close relatives and legalise criminal property. This extension of the scope of confiscation will allow the taking of all the property of a criminal to the extent that it is reasonable to assume that the property is of criminal origin on the basis of its lifestyle and the nature of the crime. Now a few words about corruption. As a result of the work of the Office for Corruption Crimes established in the Central Criminal Police two years ago, the detection of crimes has improved and more corrupt proceeds have been seized in those crimes that are within the competence of the Police and Border Guard Board. Compared to 2012, the number of proceedings sent from the Office for Corruption Crimes increased from 80 to 293. This is a remarkable increase. The assets have been seized for nearly EUR 0.3 million. Last year's increased risks of corruption were related to the use of officials' funds, supervisory activities and also to conflicts of interest. It is clear that our place in the Annual Corruption Social Perception Index compiled by Transparency International is quite significant among Central and Eastern European countries. We have moved from 32 to 28, but this figure has been relatively the same in the last five or six years. It's a lot harder to go from here to here. It is clear that this is one of the most systematic approaches that we can hope that this perception will improve in society and will certainly become more transparent in the public, local and private sectors. If you move from here to the Defence Police as perhaps the most effective anti-corruption unit in the country, then you can also highlight their clear task of preventing intelligence against the Estonian state. Other information: INTERPOL-UN Security Council Special Notice web link: https://www.interpol.int/en/notice/search/un/14278 Vladimir Veitman was convicted of treason and gave secret information to the foreign intelligence service of the Russian Federation. It is clear that the interest of the Russian special services in the activities of Estonian security authorities is permanent and, unfortunately, also active. In order to ensure internal security, there is an increasing need to focus on the threats posed by cyberspace. In 2013, cybercrime and digital evidence services were set up in the prefectures of the Police and Border Guard Board. Cybercrime is certainly those crimes that are still on the rise. Consequently, investment in preventing this type of crime is essential for the security of every euro society. Third, strengthening life-saving capabilities. It is safe to say that Estonia's rescue capacity reached the best level of post-release time in 2013. In an accident, only a full-scale crew, with at least three rescuers, who can dive in the event of a fire, save a person from water, or release the victim from the vehicle. With the 2012 rescue reform, we increased the number of life-saving commandos from 41 to 66, with more than 120,000 people getting a life-saving service more. Last year, we also introduced innovative solutions to save people's lives. These are thermal cameras, for example, which allow rescuers to find the victim ten times faster than before in the smokey room. By the end of 2013, the thermal camera was 32 commandos and this year their number will increase further. Last year, nearly 170 people were rescued from fires, 33 out of water accidents. Rapid arrival and skilled action at the scene of the rescue team are essential to the rescue of human lives. By 2013, we had achieved that the average speed of arrival of the command was the same as in Finland. It is now necessary to ensure that we are able to maintain this speed consistently and also to find new ways to further shorten the time of arrival. This year, a geo-information system called GIS-112 is planned to be used as an innovative solution, which can automatically determine the location of the person in need. This new technical solution will certainly help speed up the arrival of the rescue team at the crash site and save lives. The fourth issue is the reduction of drug deaths and drug addiction. Between 1999 and 2012, a total of 1118 people have died due to an overdose of drugs in Estonia, including an exceptionally large number of young men aged 15 to 39 compared to other EU Member States. In 2013, drug deaths turned into a declining trend. Although we do not yet have a final figure, we expect and are likely to have more or less 120 drug deaths, i.e. people who lost their lives due to an overdose were about 50 fewer than in 2012. In our society, the most serious devastation is the very dangerous opioids, fentanyl. In recent years, this has led to most drug deaths. Last year, drug deaths were reduced by lower availability, lower doses and the naloxone programme launched at the end of the year. In 2013, the police conducted six drug-oriented street operations and 67 people were detained as a suspect of a drug crime. The final amount of fentanyl seized has not yet been calculated, but more than one kilogram of fentanyl has been received according to the analyses carried out so far, of which at least 35000 40000 doses would have been reached. As you can see from the slide, the strength of fentanyl available on the street has decreased, and one of the reasons for this appears to be the police's much more effective work in apprehending both fentanyl dealers and the perpetrators of serious drug crimes. In 2012, the average content of the pure substance in fentanyl gram was 6.6%, but it had fallen to 5.3% in 11 months. At the end of 2013, a naloxone programme was launched in the country to save people's lives in overdose by administering naloxone, which is specifically intended for use in opioid drugs, and to provide first aid to the arrival of an ambulance. This help can be provided by family members and acquaintances of drug addicts, and today it has actually saved 15 lives. I would stress that the naloxone program was only launched in the last few months of last year. We hope that during this year, addicts will increasingly embrace the programme, and we will see that drug deaths are being further reduced. But, of course, drug prevention is of paramount importance in addition to the elimination of the consequences. In traffic surveillance, for example, there is an increasing need for attention to be paid to drug use alongside alcohol. This is why last year a new and more accurate drug meter was tested, as the share of drug drink drivers is in a growing trend. The most important thing is, of course, to avoid drug use at all. At the end of 2013, the Ministry of the Interior launched for the first time a comprehensive campaign for parents aimed at informing parents about their role in drug prevention, but also more generally about dependence. The message is that prevention must start several years before the child's break, and we invite parents to learn how to do prevention wisely. The first results of the campaign can be summarised in the first half of this year when the results of the follow-up survey are available. The core of this information is a separate website www.tarkaperd.ee, where all parents receive good advice and can also learn about how parents should talk to their children about addictions, when to do it and what skills to do it would be necessary. In addition, last year the Ministry of the Interior invested over EUR 100000 in several prevention projects. For example, we supported the implementation of the new evidence-based anti-school bullying programme KiVa pilot project in nearly 20 Estonian schools since the autumn of last year. This year, Estonia is also planning to launch a sports programme in use in the United States and Great Britain for years, which is called Kickz in Britain. In cooperation with sports leagues, local authorities and police, it organises sports training for children from risk families in areas where there is a lack of leisure opportunities to teach these children social skills and increase their self-control capacity. The reduction of drug deaths and drug addiction requires a concerted concerted effort by the various authorities, which is why the highest level of government commission on drug prevention was set up in 2012. As a result of this Commission's work, a White Paper on reducing drug use has just been drawn up. It is a policy document that will plan annual activities and define common performance indicators, with a large number of institutions, NGOs, local authorities and experts contributing to this. It is available on the Homepage of the Ministry of the Interior and I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu examine it. The fifth priority is to involve volunteers in ensuring security. It is clear that there are long traditions of volunteering. Our aim is to highlight the inclusion of communities and free-willingness in society much more. The potential is great. In the last two years, the Ministry of the Interior has increased four times the state's support for volunteer rescuers, relief officers and neighborhood guards. In 2013, the grant amounted to EUR 1,3 million. In the case of active auxiliary police officers, a significant change can be seen, for example, in working hours, the number of which already reached around 72000 last year. That's about 45 professional cops in a year's work hours. The Prefectures of the Police and Border Guard Board also took time in 2013 to communicate with all auxiliary police officers and to find out about the wishes and expectations of volunteers for their services. The lines of relief police officers were organized considerably, and it can be said that there are approximately 830 auxiliary policemen in Estonia who can be considered active. It can also be pointed out that the number of active relief police has increased several times in the last three years and that our targets for this year are, of course, even higher. As we move on to the certified volunteer rescuers, 2013 was a step forward in this area as well. Today we have 1281 volunteer rescuers, which is nearly twice as many as in 2012. For the first time, the number of rescue commandos exceeded 100 borders, and in addition to the reserve rescue groups of Tallinn and West Estonia, the reserve rescue team of Tartu started operating. Volunteers also contribute to prevention. In the first three quarters of 2013, over 2,500 hours of work were devoted to fire prevention, for example. On voluntary sea rescues, it can also be said that there is an increase in preparedness. Volunteer marine rescuers participated in 31 rescue operations last year, 8 more than in 2012 and more than 50 in need were rescued with their help. The sixth priority is the continuation of a conservative citizenship and migration policy. The foundation of our citizenship policy is the notion that citizenship acquired by birth is a right, giving citizenship to a non-citizen is a privilege that naturally involves a relationship of trust with the state in terms of both rights and obligations. With regard to legal migration, Parliament made a significant change in 2013. Thank you very much for this. This is another example that Estonia is flexible and wishes to be open to those who create added value for Estonian society. According to this change, top specialists, researchers and students can come to Estonia on the basis of a visa, start working and studying here and then apply for a residence permit on the spot. Foreign specialists who create the most added value for Estonia may immediately recruit the company if the agreed conditions for financial indicators are met. Last year, for example, the number of foreign students increased by 163 to 679, and since 1 September, when the new Aliens Act entered into force, the residence permit has been issued to eight foreign top specialists. Of the cases of illegal migration, it is clear that in recent decades the pressure on immigration into the European Union has steadily increased. Alongside this, the number of illegal crossings of the Estonian border has gradually increased. Last year 26 illegal immigrants were detained less than in the year before last, a total of 267 foreigners. The number of asylum applications increased by 20 last year, to 97 primary asylum applications. The largest number of applications was submitted by Vietnamese citizens. The last but not least priority axis is, of course, the quality of internal security and also sustainable management. The area of government of the Ministry of Interior is one of the most complex and major in Estonia. Nearly 9500 employees provide 231 public services for security purposes. The most important asset, of course, is our people. Compared to 2012, the average number of employees decreased by 0.7% or 59 employees last year, while the wages of most police officers and rescuers rose to an average of EUR 1088 per month. We will continue to raise wages this year. Most of the resources we have allocated to those workers who are actually exposed to the threat. Estonia is one of the few countries in the European Union where the salaries of internal security staff increase for the second year in a row. In 2013, the leadership team of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was also significantly strengthened: four internal security agencies became new leaders. The new leaders have placed a great deal of emphasis in their work on the organisation and clarification of the institutions and, of course, on the taxpayer's every euro going for a specific and clear purpose. Some observations on real estate developments in the area of government. Last year, a police-rescue joint building was completed in Narva and a flight team was completed in Kuressaare. This year the joint buildings of the Rescue Board and the Alarm Centre will be completed in Lasnamäe, Tallinn, and Annelinna, Tartu. This is an important prerequisite for carrying out one of the major changes this year, which is, of course, the transition to the emergency number 112 from 1 November. The building of the police station will also be completed in Keila and next year the command building in Vormsi and the joint building of the police and rescue centre in Häädemeeste. Finally. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would advise you all to thoroughly examine our report, which has also been distributed. I expect good ideas, discussion, thought development from you, of course, criticism to move forward together. We will only achieve something if we act together. I am very pleased that the team that is working hard and making efforts to implement internal security, including security policy, is very strong. It is clear that all members of society must actually contribute to ensuring security. If there is any contribution to this, even for a few hours a year, society will certainly become safer, safer. And it is clear that the role of the third sector, the civil society and the private sector is also important here. I very much hope that the discussion will come alive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U29	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U30	Thank you very much, manager. Thank you, good minister, for this review. Thoughts and criticism will come, I will take on this second task. Volunteer rescuers and their association The Salvation League I didn't find a word about this organization in the main section of the book. I found a sentence in the annual report stating that the Ministry of the Interior continued to finance the voluntary representative organisation and that the operating costs were EUR 60000. Do I have the right information that this year you will not continue to do so and this amount has been reduced by a third? Secondly, has the funding even started? According to my information, the Ministry has never been able to open the budget of this representative organisation, and all these years it has come from this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U31	Thank you very much for your question. This is a subject that we have been debating with the Ministry of Finance for quite a few years. Our proposal has been that the voluntary umbrella organisation should be permanently funded from the state budget. The Ministry of Finance has not taken a stand for this for a third year now. This umbrella organisation, as well as a number of other non-profit organisations that, for example, help to ensure security or participate in other issues of social life, have had to find funding in the Riigikogu, for example. The same is true of the free will for salvation. I very much hope that the Ministry of Finance will change its understanding. In any case, we have had very heated debates and I know that members of the Riigikogu have also had disputes, but unfortunately this principle has not changed. Each year, this money has been counted as a one-off cost, which means that it will be cut as a cost next year, and the permanent funding essential for these organisations will have to be found again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U32	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U33	Thank you! Mr. Minister! You talked a lot about improving the fire safety environment, improving prevention and adding money. But what has come about that, for example, in January of this year, there were many more fires than before and people have died? The other half of the question is about the rescue teams, the rescue teams. We were talking about reducing back then, you were talking about increasing up. For example, Palamuse also had a volunteer commando, and we strongly opposed it. This year, only a few days ago, however, there was quite a tragedy. Did we still make the right decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U34	Thank you for your question. I think we made the right decision. I have also explained this several times before Parliament. Lifesaving services can only be provided by a professional lifesaving team, which requires at least three men on shift. We had rescue commandos where, in a good case, two men could be put out in shifts, in some cases not even two. The problems, as you know, were also that in one area or another these men did not just have a burden, there was not enough challenge to retain their skills. Rescue commanders, now 72 in Estonia, are able to deliver help more quickly to a large number of people. As we have said, after this reform, there are 120,000 more people who will be able to provide life rescue services within 1 to 15 minutes. I think it's important. We only save people's lives if there are at least three men on the shift. Regarding volunteers, I mentioned that their support has multiplied over the last two or three years. We're trying to give them more training. We have also significantly increased the equipment distributed to volunteers. I think these steps have certainly justified themselves. With regard to the first month of this year and the last months of last year, it is difficult to say in black and white what can cause the number of fires and the number of deaths from fires to increase to this extent at one point in time. I can point out that, according to the current analysis, smoking is a significant cause as well as alcohol. I think there might be a certain connection here with a rather warm winter. On the other hand, those people who died in the last month of last year and in the first month of this year did not use a smoke detector. The general awareness of smoke detectors is very high in Estonia. Sadly, however, those who died were people who did not care much about the various safety standards that save people's lives, and so they became victims of their conduct. Here I can repeat once again: in addition to the prevention funds and other things, the most important progress of this year is that we are making a huge contribution to home visits. As I mentioned, 8,000 home visits will be made this year and members of the rescue teams will be involved. We are trying to reach the homes and households where the risk is expected to be higher, where the risk perception is lower. We hope to change people's attitudes so that they can protect themselves from fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U35	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Browse this year's book takes note of a picture of the Mercedes made in 1986 by the free - minded sprayers of Isaac. It is one of the newest volunteer rescue workers in Estonia, mostly the rescue workers' machines have been made before you were born. And I think that the funds that we now have for car maintenance are about EUR 500 per association, that's the money that can buy about 1.3 tyres for one car. At the same time, we know that volunteer rescuers will not get a cent to get new technology, they will have the technology used by the municipalities of friendships beyond the border and our professional rescuers. Is such a system sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U37	Thank you for your question. You can look at page 40 on sustainability. In 2011, volunteer rescuers received 330000 euros in support in the Republic of Estonia. Now that only two years have passed, this amount has increased to EUR 1.15 million. I imagine that in a country like Estonia it is difficult to foresee a larger than threefold increase in substance. I think it shows most genuinely and without excessive words how we value voluntary salvation. Of course, it can be said here that there is never too much, there could always be more. What else are we gonna do? We are preparing to replace the means of transport for professional rescuers with funds from the European financial perspective and these will be very large procurements. As far as possible, the old but maintained rescue equipment will be handed over to volunteers. I think that in 2015-2020 we will see that professional rescuers get new vehicles and their current vehicles, of which quite a large number are still fit for use, are given to voluntary rescuers. This is also an opportunity to support the rescuers. I fully agree that there could always be more, especially more money. But, as we know, money comes from precisely the income earned by the Estonian society, which is allocated to us by the taxpayers. I hope that what is written in the voluntary block on pages 39 to 41 will also show what has been done last year and the year before. As I said, it has been ensured that volunteer rescuers are provided with clothing and technical equipment. Of course, well thought-out cooperation is included here. Many voluntary rescue officers are communicating with their international partners, and I have seen for myself the equipment that has been provided to volunteer rescuers by sister organisations such as Sweden and Denmark. It's an outstanding, very big help. For our part, we can only support such cooperation, and we will support it through voluntary coordinators, who were first appointed in Estonia in autumn 2011. They are meant to act precisely to promote free will and to help volunteers in every way possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U38	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U39	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The fight against corruption crimes is certainly one of the directions of Estonia's security policy, you talked about it for a long time. Statistics show that more corruption was detected at national level, 72%, while in local governments it was 22%. Overall, 2013 is characterised by a large number of repeated corruption crimes. Minister, can you comment on this situation? When we look at these figures, I have a feeling that the public official is not afraid of anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U40	Thank you for your question. I dare say that these are completely arbitrary conclusions that you are making. I think there are very serious problems in several municipalities in Estonia. If you ask about the research capacity, you know perfectly well that the research capacity to bring out and detect local government corruption has been very poor for years. Since the beginning of 2012, when we created the Office for Corruption Crimes in the Central Criminal Police, this capacity has been enhanced, but it has only been two years. The Defence Police, which is Estonia's most capable institution, deals primarily with the corruption of the public sector, the legal system and the central government of the state. The Office for Corruption Crimes will certainly also become much more effective in the coming years. It took the Defence Police at least five to seven years to achieve a European level in a good way, in cooperation with the prosecutor's office, to detect more serious corruption schemes. I think that there are local governments in Estonia, especially in Ida-Virumaa, also the city of Tallinn, which is seriously problematic and where you have seen very significant cases of corruption in recent years. We can only hope here that prevention can bear more fruit, that people avoid corrupt practices, understanding the conflict of interest. At the Ministry of Justice, I created the website www.corruption.ee, which aims precisely to raise awareness of society as a whole, to share recommendations, tips, good experiences for local government officials and government officials, as well as for civil society and private sector employees, so that people can understand what we mean by one term or another, what is legally permissible and what is not. So the only thing that can be said is that the new anti-corruption strategy 'Honest State', the third one, will certainly carry this goal in order to try to reduce corruption through prevention. I can assure you that the investigative capacity of the prosecutor's office and the police has grown considerably in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U41	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! It is pathetic to hear you stand and lie to us again, telling us about corruption in local governments and especially in Ida-Virumaa, this is your favorite subject. There have been one and a half cases in Narva in six years; the mayor's case of one euro is currently being investigated in Kohtla-Järve. At the same time, last week we reviewed the overview of Crime in Estonia in 2013, where it is clearly stated that corruption is rife with public authorities, state-run bodies, private state agencies, more than 75% of corruption cases, if you look at these data. When, after all, will you stop talking about local governments? When are you going to deal with corruption where it really is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U43	Thank you for your question. You can, as always, turn everything upside down and bluff so the eye doesn't look. In my opinion, this review of criminal policy, which you received for inspection last week, clearly shows that corruption at the state level, at central government level, has been dealt with in Estonia for years, with the prevention of this corruption. Like I said, research capacity is great. The discovery of local government schemes, particularly in Ida-Virumaa, Mr Stalnukhin, has done little. Fortunately, since 2007, the same government coalition gave the Defence Police competence to six major cities in Estonia, and it has revealed significant, frankly appalling corruption schemes, especially in the larger cities of Estonia, which remain on the northern coast. The Defence Police will certainly continue to deal with problematic areas and increase their capacity to investigate corruption cases. We are also reaching the remaining 215 or 220 municipalities by strengthening our research capacity. This investigation falls within the competence of the Police and Border Guard Board. These are the rest of the local governments, with the exception of the six largest cities in Estonia. As I said in the previous response, building this capacity takes time, because corruption is very hidden, a type of serious crime. If you are suggesting in any way that it will take time to prove and detect and process a corruption scheme, then I think there is nothing here that can be taken to be condescending. You also know very well from the practice of other countries that this is the case. Detecting hidden and serious crime, as well as legal proceedings, especially when it comes to general procedures, will take years. And there's nothing weird about that. It's not the stealing of jam, it's the bigger theft. Unfortunately, we have to accept that things take their time, it is natural in the rule of law. You are reluctant to talk about these municipalities, which I believe represent a very serious problem in Estonia, which has been highlighted in a number of annual reports, starting with those of international organisations and ending with national ones. I don't think it makes any sense for you to take such an attitude, I suggest you take a different attitude. I suggest you look at society as a whole and try to move towards transparency. This concerns both the central government of the country and those governments that you hold very dear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U44	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Last year, in this very hall, you and I exchanged ideas about algorithmic profiling. Now, one such news came out last week that the Police and Border Guard Board is planning to introduce a system for collecting and analysing public information in order to enhance its activities, particularly in the field of prevention. It is also said that demographics, changes in people's behaviour, media texts, commentaries, public posts on social media are what the app that is being created could process and be used to predict people's behaviour. Please tell me if this is a system where there will be some kind of file for every person with all his comments, opinions, information on social media! How does this contribute to increasing security? Are we not violating people's privacy and rights here, which they must also have on the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U46	Thank you for your question. Your original question, concerning profiling, I replied that no, it is not being dealt with in the Estonian country. The fundamental rights of people are respected in Estonia and, of course, everyone has the right to privacy and message secrecy. So I can only confirm it to you from this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U47	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this review. But there is only one page in this book, a big picture and two quotes about maritime safety, which is also part of our security policy. We know that we have obligations and requirements for the marine environment in the Baltic Sea region, so it is prevention, monitoring or pollution response capacity. How do you assess the work done so far, and how do we look compared to other regions? What are our biggest problems? All the more so as we have announced very strongly that this year it will be the year of the Baltic Sea in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U49	Thank you for your question. On page 43, you will find some of the most important observations on the risk of marine pollution: 29 possible cases of pollution, the pollution was identified in 16 cases. The figures for 2012 were 33 and 20 respectively, i.e. the situation is roughly the same. We have also concluded that, in most cases, the products or residues of light disappearing petroleum products deliberately released from ships which did not cause permanent damage to the sea. We are working very seriously with the Finnish country in the response to pollution, and there is also an agreement with Latvia. I think that our capacity has certainly increased thanks to the financial resources that have come from the European Union. The pollution control vessel General Kurvits has increased our marine pollution capability as a specific technical tool. We will also apply for money in this area in the next financial perspective. Since we are a small country, it is absolutely inevitable and natural that some cases of marine pollution of a wider scale can only be resolved in cooperation. We are working with Finland in particular and, in some ways, with Sweden. Developing a greater capacity for marine pollution response would be difficult with our few resources, but I dare say we have a'satisfactory' overall status or capability. Of course, it could always be better. Fortunately, pollution incidents, as has been said, are not many. But if there is a bigger case, then the effects in the Baltic Sea are really extensive, because, in the big picture, it is a closed body of water. That's what they call him. I am absolutely sure that our good partners from the Finnish state are also interested in Estonia being able, at least at the level of its response, to handle professionally the technical tools that Finns can share with us. So the overall status of the Baltic Sea is, in my opinion, more or less satisfactory.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U50	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You spoke in your presentation, and in the material you gave us, there's a lot of talk about human resources policy. At the same time, much has been said about corruption. There's been a pretty emotional exchange of words. I therefore ask you to comment on one paragraph of the annex to the report on corruption in the European Union that brings together these two things. This is precisely because the risk of political influence is also felt in the appointment of high officials in the public sector and, for example, in the spring 2013 process for the appointment of a police and border guard leader. Would you comment on this paragraph, which has been read out of the European Union's high pulpit, and comment on it from the point of view of political corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U52	Thank you very much. This statement, which is written in one sentence in the big report, is completely incomprehensible. In my opinion, 2013 has also been a success in terms of human resources policy for our area of government. As a result of meaningful and heated discussions, we have appointed four top executives. My general principle has also been that there is no need to make mediocre choices in the area of governance, which includes the two largest public sector organisations, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board. We certainly do not need choices for the choice either. I am very pleased that the Director General of the Rescue Board and the Police and Border Guard Board, who are currently in office, has fully justified the hope that they have been given. I think they're doing a very good job, they have a very strong team spirit. I guess the arguments that we had last year are written in the law. Certain personnel policies go through several filters in the Republic of Estonia. There are very different opinions and they must certainly be taken into account. The election of the Director-General of the Tax and Customs Board is, for example, compared to the election of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board, which is essentially the exclusive competence of the Minister of Finance. However, the appointment of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board is much more varied and the legislator has certainly had its reasons for this. I think that in human resources policy, good and right decisions were made last year, and that is my simple answer. I think that discussions and debates have been good and developing and we are significantly stronger this year than we were last year and earlier. The top executives of human resources are very dependent on it, which is also highly dependent on it in Estonia's largest public sector organisation (the Police and Border Guard Board has 5500 employees). This office has not only a new top executive, but basically the whole management is new. I think this new leadership has clearly justified itself and is really doing a better job than it was before.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U53	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the case of voluntary rescuers, you have pointed out that the number of rescue and rescue teams has increased dramatically, if you would say so. I see a clear role for you and the ministry here, because when national units were lost, of course local communities responded and voluntary rescue units were set up to replace national ones. The fact that there is a need for regional rescue units is also reflected in the fact that you significantly increased their financing. So where are we going? Actually, we're gonna make it back to where you started. But here's my question. Since there are so many of these units now, do you have some kind of plan to maintain or cultivate their human capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U55	Thank you for your question. You drew attention to the reform of the rescue teams and associated it with support for voluntary rescue activities. There is certainly no connection here that you may have been impressed with. The support of volunteer rescuers has grown much faster and much more widely than only in those areas where the transformation of rescue troops took place. I would remind you that we had officially 81 professional rescue officers at the beginning of 2012. In the course of the restructuring, 72 of them remained. The number of voluntary rescue teams has increased considerably, and there has been a significant increase in financial resources aimed at free-willing. We are not going to make it back to the same place in any way, but we are actually aiming to achieve the capacity and willingness to intervene in the initial crisis situation, especially in areas with disunity. Parliament has already adopted a decision to this end in 2010, which provides an opportunity for voluntary rescue activities with independent competence. The Government and the Ministry of Internal Affairs allocate funds from the budget and support the formation of commandos. But in that sense, you are right that we want to move on precisely towards quality. We certainly don't put our hand in front of you, but we're not doing anything specific to mechanistically increase the number of commandos. As we move forward, we really want to improve quality so that voluntary commandos formed (more than 100) are sustainable. That is why we have repeatedly increased the support that the state grants them. We provide training and analysis of ways to give volunteers more rights and also improve technical equipment. In general, the principle of voluntary salvation will never replace professional salvation can be said once again. Volunteers only complement professional activities, which is an opportunity to intervene at first level in minor crisis situations. Volunteer rescuers, as we know, are not yet able to dive into smoke. But I'd like to leave the question, why not give it to the volunteer rescuers who are interested in smoking dive in years to come? They could, for example, be professional rescuers who have left the service but continue as voluntary rescuers and have received the necessary training. This should, as far as I know, be about 200 hours of training, so very thorough and long training. Why not give some voluntary rescue officers such a right? If they have the necessary technical equipment and a sufficient number of men on guard, why can't they do a smoke dive? We can give them a chance. But, of course, it's future music. This means that we have a voluntary side in parallel and also a strong life-saving capacity, which is currently 72 professional rescue officers. To conclude, as I mentioned in my speech, the response rate of life-savers in Estonia is essentially the same as in Finland. Secondly, given the size of the population, we actually have even more lifesavers than in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U56	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased to see that in recent years the Ministry of the Interior has been very serious about prevention, it can be said that this is probably one of your heart's things. At the same time, we see and know that we are losing a great many lives because of excessive alcohol consumption. In this regard, prevention is relatively endless. Last week, the Government of the Republic approved a Green Paper on alcohol policy, which was prepared with the agreement of very many parties. How do you judge whether this book was good? Did you get those basics that your ministry wanted to put in there? How could this work go on?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U58	That's a good question. It's really endless work. Directly due to alcohol damage, as we know, we lose about one and a half thousand lives a year, which is ten times higher than drug overdoses. But we also know that the indirect impact of alcohol on people's lives and health is even greater. I think that the Green Paper is certainly progress. Personally, I might have liked to have seen more progress in some respects, but certainly the Ministry of Social Affairs must be commended for its good work. At the same time, the Green Paper is indicative, unlike the White Paper, not guidelines, but agreed policy recommendations that will lead to possible legislative changes and more concrete policy guidelines. In my opinion, some of the wordings that begin with the word 'weighing' could have been much more direct. For example, consider banning lifestyle advertising. In my opinion, advertising alcohol through lifestyle gives society a completely wrong impression of the harm caused by alcohol and its negative effects. We know in Europe countries where alcohol can only be advertised through neutral product advertising. The product's characteristics are passed on and not linked to lifestyle, such as that the only real man is the one who drinks beer x. I'm sorry, but if it's for millions of euros to you, perhaps not just for you as very aware members of the Riigikogu, but for a little less informed groups of society, it will be introduced and entered, then I think it will bear fruit and alcohol consumption in Estonia will not decrease. We know that Estonia, where there are about 11 litres of absolute alcohol per capita, is very negative in Europe compared to other countries. As a positive example, we can give another small, smaller society, such as Iceland, where this figure is almost twice as low. In the very cold and rough northern country of Sweden, alcohol consumption is also around 6 litres. On the positive side, there are other countries in northern Europe that can be mentioned here. So I think we have a lot of room for improvement. I, as Minister of the Interior and the employees of my administration, are exposed to drug and alcohol harm every day. We see their extremely negative impact on rescue, both in traffic and in fire accidents. I must highlight here the positive cooperation we are doing with the private sector to deliver prevention messages to society. For example, since 2011, I have invited representatives from the private sector, including retailers and wholesalers, to discuss the round table in order to agree on a single prevention message. But this concerns only the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior and concerns the prevention of traffic, fire and water accidents. This single prevention message that we have agreed on says that if you drink, don't drive, don't swim. I think this is a certain improvement. It is clear that our country's policy, our society's policy, which is primarily to save minors from any harm caused by the consumption of addicts, is of the utmost importance. This is a key issue, because the earlier minors are exposed to smoke, alcohol and drugs, the greater the damage to their brains, the greater the damage to their future lives, and the smaller the chance to avoid dependence in their future lives. In summary, the main website of this communication is the smart parent.ee, to which we have been directing our prevention efforts since last year. It is not only about alcohol, as I said, but also about tobacco and drugs. In answer to the question about the Green Paper, this is a step in the right direction. I think that such steps could be even greater, and I very much hope that, when the Green Paper is being implemented, Parliament, too, will be ready for the majority of Parliament's parties to make a significant contribution to really reducing alcohol losses in society. I also welcome the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government of the Republic have decided to channel at least EUR 10 million from the funds of the next financial perspective to reduce alcohol dependence.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U59	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The 2013 Implementation Report states that support for non-profit organisations providing social programmes will be increased. When the Minister of Justice appeared here, I think he gave a very positive example. He said that they too had announced that they would apply for money with such projects and that money would be given not for one year, but for two years. The associations will know in advance that they will finance two years of activity. How is this organized in your field? Prevention of non-profit organisations will certainly bring great benefits in this area and their uncertainty about financing could be reduced by projects being two years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U61	Thank you for your question. I think that this is a very sensible course of action if framework agreements provide certainty for non-profit organisations, representatives of the public, who do very good preventive work. The Ministry of the Interior did not have financial possibilities in the past, and perhaps it was not such a clear priority in previous years. Since 2012, however, I have really considered it extremely important that the Ministry of the Interior participates in prevention, through the projects that I presented to you in the presentation, my helping hand should be extended to those children who come from risk families, who we really cannot cover even if we would significantly increase the support of the Estonian state for interest education. Why is that? We have a number of children from risk families where parents are not interested in their children's education of interest. Our question is how to reach the young people who hang out on the streets and who, I apologize, can even escape from home because the climate there, the environment is rather repulsive. They're running into the streets, running into some gangs, they've got a lot of free time. Our goal is to try to include these young people in a good way. I told you about the attractive opportunity to involve these young people in some sports programmes, such as football training, but not to become football players, but, of course, to give them social skills, to improve their self-control, to deal with them at a real and professional level. I think framework agreements are a good opportunity. We are also trying to offer greater certainty to our good partners. For example, with the same sports programme in England, which is called Kickz in Estonia has not yet been designed to match it, our good partner is the Goodeo Foundation, which I think is one of Estonia's strongest representatives and contributors to prevention. Yeah, we're also trying to build that confidence. In any case, the trend is that the state is not jumping in its choices and would give a clear signal to the third sector in a transparent way through procurement: yes, the state is contributing, the country has opportunities for this, it is an important issue for us and we want this activity to last for years. As an example, I can also bring forward information for parents, where we are trying precisely to clarify this year through this framework approach and create a longer partnership with a specific organisation that would in a good sense provide us with know-how and provide the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U62	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U63	Mr. Minister! In the Written Security Policy Review, pages 23 and 24 contain such a text that "political corruption, power trading and the likelihood of competition offences being committed have increased'. To determine any probability, you need a factual basis or a data set. Can you explain to me what factual data is based on your conclusion or your prognosis? Secondly, there is also the issue of counterintelligence and the protection of constitutional order. Very briefly, about a dozen stories about treason and the activities of the defence police in the field of counterintelligence. At the same time, ethnic groups, religious groups and political groups are radicalizing in Europe. Why can't I find anything on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U64	Thank you for your question. What you mentioned last time will be dealt with in the annual Yearbook of the Defence Police. The subject of radicalisation will be dealt with in depth. This was done in 2013 and the next Yearbook will be published in spring 2014. Radicalisation is indeed a problem in Europe; in Estonia, we can, fortunately, regard it as a rather moderate problem. We do not have such communities in which acts of violence based on radical moods can be established. It must be stressed that faith is never a problem; the problem is hidden violence in the shadow of the same faith. Violence has also been hidden behind religious radicality by what we have to stand up to and what the defence police are also dealing with. When it comes to the beginning of the question, the sentence quoted here still talks about the likelihood of competition crimes and the number of cases of influence trading affected by political corruption. The conclusions have been drawn with the help of police experts and there is a specific number of cases concerning the trade in influence. We know that dealing with influence is currently an extremely open question, as we have essentially received the Supreme Court's decision concerning a specific section of our Penal Code. I think that, in general, corruption at municipal level, for example, is very often seen as a manifestation of influence trading. It is, of course, always a question of which composition the prosecutor goes to court with which form the final charge will be brought. I think that the review is precisely about the fact that the number of cases of power trading affected by corruption has increased in recent years. This is a finding that we should not leave behind, it should be pointed out in order to open up the nature of the problem and to be clear as soon as possible about the trade in influence. And clarity not only at the level of the law, because, as we know, complex formations need to be clarified first and foremost by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U65	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U66	Minister, thank you very much. You said in your report that giving citizenship is a privilege. At the end of the Sochi Olympic Games, we saw quite a number of countries brought medals and fame to people who had only recently acquired their citizenship. Would you explain why the Government of the Republic did not grant citizenship to the Russian young man who, along with an Estonian citizen girl, would probably have given Estonia the highest place in the Olympic Games? Was it seen as any safety risk or was rejection limited to the level of the Minister of Culture and you were not consulted on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U67	Thank you for your question. The Government of the Republic has granted citizenship for special services only in very few cases. If I recall, in the last three years, it has only been done once, as far as I know. The Ministry of Culture formed its position on this particular person. No further request was made to the Government of the Republic regarding this skater and therefore there has been no decision to make. The conservative approach to granting citizenship for special services has been a general principle in recent years. This principle is also reflected in the fact that giving citizenship for special services has caused so much blood, disagreements, controversy. Above all, the question arises: if one athlete has been given it, excuse us, but on what criteria do we not give it to other athletes, who may also have such strong internal potential to achieve medals and a reputation at the Olympic Games. This is the general context that I wanted to explain to you and highlight in relation to citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U68	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Minister of the Interior. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, Andres Anvelt! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I'm starting with a little praise to the Minister. During these three years, if our public sector, including ministries, has not flourished as policy makers, given the size of the budget growth, something has been done in the Ministry of the Interior. These charts, which we have seen and can also look at in this book, really show that the number of accidents in Estonia has decreased. However, the beginning of this year shows that this trend can turn a bit in a different direction. This certainly also points to the role played by people's addiction and other risks arising from the socio-economic background, alongside police and rescue action in the event of accidents. However, I would also like to mention from this remote control where I continue to see the major problems that the Ministry of the Interior has certainly dealt with, but where in the near future action should be stepped up. Much has been said here about one important priority, which is the fight against close-relationship violence. The Minister must agree that the police are only one element in a complex system that should reduce this violence. The Police and Border Guard Board has actually been ahead of quite a number of other state institutions through its official activities. He has developed a guide on how to react in such cases, but unfortunately, the implementation of what is written in the guide often falls behind either the lack of specialists or the different experiences of different prefectures. The consequence is that if we look at the statistics on domestic violence, the figures are very different in the prefectures. I do not believe that, for example, in the Prefecture of the North, despite the greatest number of people to be served, this problem is less than, for example, in the Prefecture of the West. It continues to be a serious concern that if we look at the number of challenges, say, the number of cases registered and the number of proceedings initiated, even the statistics on this paper show quite a degree of latentity, which, I stress, can be passed on to the next generation in the case of close relationship violence. I very much hope that, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposals for amending the law on the amendment of the pending Penal Code, especially those concerning children as secondary victims, will be seriously discussed. The aim is to point out in law that when a child sees violence, it is an aggravating circumstance. Speaking of corruption, one way or another, yes, the Office of the Central Criminal Police for Corruption has begun to raise its head. But their ability can certainly be further developed. Not only are serious crimes to be dealt with, but also misdemeanours, which we actually have recorded in several laws, which concern both operating restrictions and all kinds of corrupt behaviour of authorities, local government officials. It is a concern that, although we are reading from this very interesting report that over the last two years there have been areas such as transport, information and communication technology, defence industry, medicine and, if I am not mistaken, energy being better covered, because the competence of the defence police to investigate corruption crimes has been broadened, the figures, unfortunately, of which the Minister very much loves to speak, have moved in a different direction. In 2013, the number of cases of corruption resulting from the prosecution of the Defence Police was significantly lower than a year earlier. If I'm not mistaken, it's only three. I will continue to emphasise this fact, which I asked the Minister about. The appointment of high-ranking police officers last year made a negative impression. I think this was also noted by the high officials of the European Commission who appreciated it. The Estonian Police and Border Guard Board was without a leader for almost six months. In the meantime, incomprehensible manipulations were made, and I do not think that the emergence of such a paragraph in the European Union's report on corruption would be merely a coincidence. I'll stop in a few words in drug deaths. This figure has indeed decreased in 2013. But I will remind the Minister that I have been talking about this from this remote from 2011 that everything starts with the free sale of fentanyl by a drug dealer, the white Chinese on the street. In the Prefecture of the North of Tallinn, the task force started working on it at the beginning of last year and we see a significant reduction in drug deaths there. Unfortunately, in Ida-Viru County, this has not been achieved in substance, and fentanyl still engulfs young people and leads them to manalade. I think the lives of young people would be saved by police and border guard activities in the direction of Ida-Viru, but it is relatively in its infancy. I will mention the conservative citizenship policy. They say it's basically our advantage. I would still mention the cases of this year and last year, where the people loyal to Estonia got caught in the turns of the law on citizenship issues and lost their citizenship, or at least it was difficult to obtain it. This situation is not quite normal. Finally, what said to me yesterday at the reception of the Republic's anniversary, our Commander of the Defence Forces, Riho Terras, was that the units of the Police and Border Guard Board marched best on the parade. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U70	Thank you very much. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U71	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, on the day of the celebration of the Republic of Estonia, as my colleague Jüri Ratas said, bold decisions and actions were remembered and celebrated. We acknowledged and commemorated the brave men and women who brought freedom to the Estonian state. Today, speaking of Estonia's security policy, there is a very serious question: what is the measure of security? Here I recall the legendary singer Bob Dylan saying: 'The hero is the one who understands the responsibilities of freedom. ' It is the responsibility of the Estonian state to ensure the safety of all people living here. However, in our society, which is full of various statistics, real security concerns tend to remain in the background. I stress that the most important security policy challenge in Estonia continues to be to halt the decrease in the number of police officers. Not a week goes by where another policeman would not remember the past and would not inform his colleagues that new challenges have been set in motion. At the same time, any loss to a country as young as Estonia is very difficult. On the basis of a report by the Minister of the Interior, it can be said that in statistical illusions, in a world of semi-illusions, the hero once again turns out to be a man whose greatest virtue can only be admired by the twisting of security statistics. There is no point in saying that we will do our best if the problem continues to be both the low salary of police officers and the internal motivational crisis. Support for volunteering has been increased to improve the situation. Yes, we can be proud of the help of people who, out of their free will, help to erase burning homes or come to the streets if necessary, but this direction should not become the main objective of the state's security policy. All of this could be likened to trusting your health to someone who has completed emergency first aid courses. When will it be realized that the specialists who have graduated from the police school will not be the truckers and fire-fighters builders in neighbouring countries because they like to turn the wheel or level the wall with the viewer pass, but because our government cannot take real steps instead of twisting the statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U72	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll finish the negotiations. The item is exhausted. Thank you very much to all those who prepared it!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U73	We are going to the fifth item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft building code 555 initiated by the Government of the Republic. And I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft building code initiated by the Government of the Republic, which bears the number 555 in this house. Let me start by saying that this draft, as always, is also a very good one. And let it be added that my next presentations on the draft planning law and on the draft implementation of both laws, i.e. the Construction Code and the Planning Act, are also closely linked to this draft. The basis for these three drafts is a large-scale codification project of construction and planning law, involving nearly 70 parties, which started as early as 2008. First of all, let me introduce you to the draft building code, which aims to consolidate the rules in the field of construction in different laws into a single code and to make supervision of construction activities more efficient than has been the case so far. At the same time, we want to reduce the bureaucracy involved, for example, in the presentation and coordination of a construction project. One of the main problems in the construction sector is the fragmentation of general construction law and specific areas, which is why the codification of construction law was carried out. Fragmentation occurs both in terms of terms and, for example, in the application of the authorisation procedure. The requirements and principles of general construction law are often ignored or unjustified exceptions are made. However, for the implementer, this entails an administrative burden where each building needs to comply with specific requirements, to coordinate a separate construction project and to submit applications to permit procedures. It is clear that the construction sector has changed rapidly over the last ten years and that the legislation regulating it has been somewhat out of the way. Thus, for example, a completely new detailed plan must be drawn up for the construction of a new dwelling in an existing residential area. This will, of course, be followed by the construction and authorisation procedure, which in turn will entail high time and resource costs. At the same time, it is supervision that needs to be strengthened, as the responsibility for monitoring completed buildings currently lies mainly with local authorities, but this is not enough in certain cases. Now, briefly, about the main changes to the draft. Firstly, monitoring of buildings already completed will increase according to the draft. More specifically, the Technical Surveillance Authority will have more powers to monitor the safety of buildings. The draft also strengthens the conditions for obtaining a right of action and equalises the conditions of competition between undertakings. All undertakings operating in the construction sector must be competent in their work, but the requirements for competence will be strengthened. If, up to now, a person with the relevant education and professional experience could also be considered competent in the construction sector, then the competence must be certified. The provision of design conditions has been further regulated than in the past. The content of the design specifications, the grounds for granting, the procedure, including time limits for proceedings and the principles of inclusion, are laid down. The documents relating to construction will be further processed through an electronic register and, if there are no disputes, no more than 30 working days should be required to obtain a building permit. If the architect or person is currently in the municipality asking for coordination on the construction project in order to get it over with, the draft states that the whole process will be put in a clear frame and that each person will be able to monitor the stage of his or her proceedings. Public administration is known to be the best tool against dark transactions. As a major change, the draft distinguishes between free construction and mandatory information and permit construction activities in the future. In the case of the simplest, or free, construction activities, the principles of the Construction Code must be observed, so that the activity does not pose a threat to man, property or the environment, and no other requirements are made. In the case of buildings subject to notification, the municipality must be informed through the building register that the person has a desire to build. Smaller buildings, such as sheds, auxiliary buildings, doghouses, etc., can be built on the basis of a notice. On the other hand, for complex and large buildings, i.e. authorised construction activities, the standards of competence will be strengthened. Uniform definitions and procedural rules are laid down in the areas related to construction. In particular, the characteristics of the building as a special matter and the definition of construction are given on a uniform basis. Duplicate and conflicting obligations have been removed from the procedural rules, which should presumably reduce the administrative burden and allow the individual to understand the law more clearly. Common procedural rules comply with the Administrative Procedure Act and take into account important case law in the field of construction, which should in turn ensure better protection of individuals' rights. Since this area of law concerns almost all residents of Estonia, of course, much attention has also been paid to inclusion. As stated at the outset, almost 70 bodies, organisations and interest groups were asked for the opinion and an innumerable number of engagement events were organised. At this point, I would like to thank those involved in this large project, both representatives of the NGO and good colleagues from other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Interior. In conclusion, I believe that the draft building code you have presented will be a good tool in the future for both a private person who plans to set up something smaller and for the large builders who are responsible for the completion of major projects in Estonia. And, of course, we support the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U75	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a specific question about § 15 (4) if you can look at it. It states that the building documents must be handed over to the building register, the local municipality or any other competent authority designated by the legislation. The question here is whether the documents must be handed over to the building register and the local government or whether they must be handed over to the local government. I'll explain. Very often, construction information is needed later, for example, on a notary who formalises a purchase/purchase contract, one or another fact is necessary in relation to the assets sold and purchased, either to prove or disprove, etc. It is therefore very important whether this data will go directly to the building register or whether the local authority will have to pass it on. How about this one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U77	Thank you. I don't see the problem here in itself, because by law, as you read here, documents have to be handed over to the building register anyway. If the documents are transferred to the municipality, the municipality will transmit them to the building register in the same way. As regards the other competent authority designated by the legislation, please refer to the concept of construction. The concept of construction goes down to a large number of buildings, buildings and also structures. Consequently, it may indeed be necessary to specify in the act to which one or the other documentation is to be transferred. When it comes to notaries, the notaries naturally get all the information they need. If they do not receive the documentation they need to conclude the transaction from the building register, they shall receive it from the competent authority. Notar has an obligation to clarify all the circumstances necessary for the conclusion of the transaction and, where appropriate, the parties to the transaction can also supply the notary with the information necessary for the performance of the operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U78	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U79	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You were talking about cutting red tape, but it doesn't seem to make this bill much easier for the village society. It is known to be an old problem that every smallest facility, a small installation installed on a village square or a village site requires a building permit. Even every park bench requires a building permit. This bill, too, without exception, says that a public holiday facility will certainly require a building permit. It makes no difference whether it is a small installation, a small installation or anything. How do you approach it from the perspective of the village society? At the moment, it seems that there is no reduction in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U80	Thank you. That is a very specific question. In particular, the construction code sought to be based on two things: "own use' and "public use' buildings and structures. As regards construction for own use, it has tried to go as easy as possible and to make the owner himself responsible for the quality of the building, in particular through owner supervision, etc. When we talk about village societies, they usually build something for public use. If this is, for example, a swing site, then of course the swing must be safe. This is the difference between public and private buildings. However, if, in preparation for the second reading of the draft, there is a feeling that this place could be relaxed, I believe that the Committee on Economic Affairs is ready to discuss this. However, I would like to stress once again that the security requirements for all buildings or facilities, especially those that may be used by minors, which have been set up for public use, must be very strict. Security can be ensured in particular through the authorisation procedure. The two sides, on the one hand, of the desire to reduce red tape and, on the other hand, that the security requirements for public-use facilities or buildings are much stricter, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U81	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U82	Thank you. My question concerns Annex 1 to the Construction Code, where there is a very comprehensive table on when it is necessary to submit a construction notice, a construction project and when the building permit is compulsory. If the table is so detailed, is there no danger that anything has been left out of it? And if there is, do we have to change the law in that case?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U83	Thank you. This list is also largely due to the fact that the implementing law repeals the specific laws of the sectors relating to electrical installations, pressure pipelines, railway infrastructure, lifts, cableway installations, etc. All these regulations in the special laws have been sought to bring them together in one place and consequently there was a need to clarify in which cases a building permit is needed and in which cases it is not necessary. So we have been guided, firstly, by the regulation of existing legislation and, secondly, by the discussion circles with 70 participants. Hopefully it's all in here. I very much hope that all the issues have been covered. If there's something we're missing, we can watch it again. What experts may consider, however, did not consider it necessary, assuming that everything is already inside, is to use an analogy of laws when there is something similar. But then there's the problem again that we're going to interpret exactly what this analogy is. If you're watching, yes, the level of detail of the table is really very high. We must then discuss it with you in the Committee on Economic Affairs between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U84	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U85	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Currently, nearly 40% of total energy is consumed in buildings. I think that the state and local government should manage taxpayers' money in a sustainable way, and that is why it is very important that all objects, be they administrative buildings, schools, hospitals or kindergartens, are built as energy-savings. In my opinion, the state should set an example and encourage others to build as energy-efficiently as possible. The European Commission has developed such guidelines, but they have not yet been implemented in Estonia. In Estonia, could minimum energy efficiency requirements and criteria be established for public money buildings in public procurement procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U86	Thank you. If I may, I will leave this question essentially unanswered. I may have a subjective opinion, but the construction code, firstly, doesn't deal directly with it, and secondly, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications must evaluate it as an "content expert." The Ministry of Justice has sought to lay down, in particular, a legal framework on how to build the Code and as the head of the codification project. Whether we set additional energy efficiency requirements for buildings, you will have the opportunity to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for a hearing or, for example, to ask a question in Question Time. I'm sure you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U87	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U88	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In 2011 the National Audit Office carried out random checks on 85 newly built objects in nine rural municipalities of Tallinn and Tartu. It turned out that out of 85 49 were built illegally because they didn't have a building permit. We recently read the follow-up report and found that most of them have been granted a building permit ex post, i.e. when the object has been built a long time ago. It's a lot easier to legitimize things like this. I wondered where there is such a passage in this bill that such a process would be lawful. That's one thing. Secondly, I have a reply that construction information is not available to notaries at the moment. If this is the task of a local government in the future, it must also have a financial cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U89	Thank you. First, to the first part of the question. That is very simple: yes, that is the question of supervision. As I said in my speech, construction supervision is currently a matter for local governments. As a result, we have provided additional rights to the Technical Surveillance Authority with this draft. The municipality's construction supervision must take account of the fact that, under the law in force, it is not possible to build at all without a building permit. The new law will get a little lighter under certain conditions, as I said in my speech, but the part of responsibility is also clearly stated there. If you look at § 156, the liability of a private individual is up to 300 daily penalty units and the liability of a legal person is up to EUR 32000. The national supervisory authority is set out in a separate chapter 18. If you want to know more about where that responsibility is written, you should look at § 157 and the following paragraphs. For example, construction without a building permit is covered by § 160 and similarly contains 300 fine units and up to EUR 32000 fine. But in advance it can be controlled naturally by the municipality. I believe that municipalities could have so many competences and opportunities. If the person in the municipality responsible for supervision travels around his territory and sees that someone has dug a foundation hole somewhere, then you should ask whether or not there is a building permit. The requirements are self-imposed by the municipality. Notaries, as I said, can also ask the parties to the transaction for more information.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U90	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Paragraph 72. So far, we had the right of the road owner to grant permission to use roads other than traffic, in accordance with the Road Law. It's the order that's been in place so far. However, paragraph 72 states very clearly that it is prohibited to organise a sporting competition and other popular events on the road and in the road protection zone. According to the previous paragraph, it is prohibited to install a lighting device in it, to prevent pedestrian movements by interfering with their behaviour. It doesn't make any sense. Does that mean all highway runs are canceled? Can street lighting no longer be installed on the road or in a protection zone, and can road traffic interfere with pedestrian traffic? Can you explain that? There is nothing in the explanatory memorandum about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U92	Thank you. No, don't count it out of here like that. This is provided for cases where no specific authorisation has been granted. Local authorities are also known to have procedures for closing roads and streets and their rights regarding the use of roads. Paragraph 72 deals with such situations when someone wishes to organise a sports competition or a public event on the road without permission. The very clear and simple principle is that sports competitions cannot be organised without authorisation. So don't take it so much as to cancel the sports competition. I won't!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U93	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U94	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. With regard to this draft, I have been approached by several local government leaders who have asked whether they are now being deprived of their right to impose burdens. Are they now going to have to clean the pavements themselves, what the residents may have done so far, and will there be increased costs? Are you gonna confirm it or disprove it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U95	Thank you. Simple answer: this is where we get to at the next point, i.e. the implementing law. According to the current implementing law, the owner has to clear the pavement and it will remain in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U96	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U97	Thank you. My question concerns § 23, the definition of the competent person and the regulation relating to it. It states that a competent person may not simultaneously act as a competent person for several undertakings. We have been written by the Association of Construction Undertakings, which has proposed that, at the same time, no more than three companies should operate, that only one is too restrictive. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U98	I now comment that the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs was involved in this work process. I do not think that, in principle, this proposal should be excluded. But once again, this work is a major compromise between the experts. During the long time we prepared this work for the Riigikogu, such understandings were reached. However, if the legislator sees that a person could also act as a competent person in several enterprises, this should not be ruled out. But then we should come to this specific provision, to the protocols that reflect what we went through in the expert group, and see why it has been achieved. I believe that, between the first and second readings, we will take these materials out for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U99	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U100	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The current Estonian construction supervision system is not working very well. In my opinion, the state should see much more of its role here and regulate construction supervision. The current situation, in which the builder and developer often order music themselves, i.e. monitoring their work, has led to the consumer not being able to be sure when buying the building that the execution corresponds to the project or that the construction work has been carried out in a quality manner. That is why I am asking: what do you think would have been the obligation that all important stages of work are documented and photographed before they are covered? In this case, the quality of the work could be demonstrated later. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U101	Thank you. We addressed the same issue in the Commission. When it comes to documenting a building, I believe that the municipality can make use of additional opportunities when issuing a building permit. A detailed construction log for each building is known to be available. If there are pictures added, please, but I say that it does not legally give people more certainty. All materials used shall be entered in the construction logbook for the purposes of construction supervision. Even if it is intended to deviate from the project, it must be coordinated with the designer, such as replacing one material with another, etc. I don't see any added value in photographing a construction project. Rather, I see that the persons who carry out construction supervision must do so correctly. Of course, builders must also adhere to the construction project. After all, the construction project has been approved by the municipality and the supervisor has reviewed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U102	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In paragraph 71, I believe that the protection zone for public use has now been extended to the rest of the roads. It used to be 10 meters, now it's up to 30. But the following, § 72, outlines the situations in which the owner must also enable all kinds of trees and shrubs to be eradicated up to traffic-dangerous facilities. Who determines if these facilities are dangerous? We know that even most homes are closer than 30 meters to the usual roads. The explanatory memorandum states that a reduction of the protection zone to 10 metres may be initiated at the request of the owner. Now that the law is in force, do all those who are closer to the road than 30 meters have to start making statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U104	Thank you. As you can see, § 71 (2) starts with the width of the protection zone of the European road network on both sides of the outer edge of the extreme lane up to 50 metres; the width of the rest of the road protection zone on both sides of the outer edge of the extreme lane is up to 30 metres. There are several aspects. One thing is European regulation; the other is what we have agreed on in cooperation with experts. The third is an additional filter, which says that the owner of the road may reduce the width of the protection zone and the minimum width of the protection zone is 10 metres on both sides of the extreme lane from the outside. It's kind of a three-step thing, isn't it? We have tried to bring it into line with the current situation, on the one hand, and with the requirements that will come in the future, on the other. Thirdly, of course, the opinion of those most in need of this protection zone must also be heard. That's where the provision came from. So I guess you're going to have to rely on what's written here. When you come back to inclusion, these meters have actually been in public use, everyone can go through it. The reasons why this is the case can also be read in the explanatory memorandum; there is more of it written out. We hope that this will not be a problem in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U105	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U106	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I hope that I will put my question in the right place about this large package. Some people have been concerned that when they start building their home, they will have to take a separate building permit for all the so-called "home blocks" garden, a building permit for the flag tower, a third construction permit for the terrace, a sewerage permit for clean water, and so on. Will the changes now make people's lives easier so that they no longer have to take multiple permits or pay multiple state fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U107	Thank you. You have to go to the beginning of the bill, or § 3. It contains the concept of a building: a building is a building or a structure. The buildings to which the building permit is to be taken must be examined further. As I said in the introduction, there are a number of buildings, or buildings, and facilities for which a building permit is no longer required in a classic way. In the case of separate facilities from the flag state and the gate is definitely separate, a separate building permit must also be taken according to the current procedure and the draft. I can't even imagine right now whether it could be linked to the area we're planning. In short, it must be assumed that a building permit is needed for each building. From memory, I know there have been no major changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U108	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U109	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Winners of public procurement often use small companies. Often people working in a small company do not have the qualifications required, often people are used who may not know how to do anything with a shovel. My question is whether, according to the new draft, the qualifications requirements for people working on construction every day have also risen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U110	Thank you. Yes, the standards of competence have been raised. But, of course, supervision doesn't go away either. Theoretically, it can't be ruled out that somebody's using a builder illegally somewhere. Here is the important supervision, which actually determines whether all the people working on the site are competent to do their job. There is nothing else to say here but that supervision must be effective, especially ownership supervision. The requirements of competence are clearly stated in the law. Unqualified persons shall not be on a construction site.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U111	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U112	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft building code and planning law together with the draft laws implementing them on Monday, 17 February. Since all these drafts are very intertwined, there were questions about one, two, and three. First of all, issues specifically concerning the Building Act. A question was asked about the supervision of the construction. It was replied that the rights and obligations of the Technical Surveillance Authority have been increased and that in private construction supervision is primarily the responsibility of the owner. Two types of supervision are distinguished. For larger objects, the owner supervision is objective and independent of the builder and designer. In addition to owner supervision, ex-ante checks are carried out, which are permit procedures, construction projects are checked and ex-post checks by the state and local government follow-up checks are followed. According to the update contained in the draft, the Agency for Technical Monitoring for Safety will be transferred to the competence of the Agency. The changes to the context of the Building Code concerning the private owner were also asked. The answer was that the procedure would become easier for the owner, especially with regard to public bureaucracy. Neighbours are subject to mandatory inclusion standards. Owners of adjacent properties must be involved in the proceedings and it is also the duty of the defendant to involve interested parties. There was a question of authorisation. It was said that the authorisation requirements are the result of the implementation law, which we will talk about later. The question that was asked here by my colleague, Kalev Lillo, was also asked. The publicisation of private roads has become a problem. Similarly, the concept of welfare works is not defined (this is why the City Government of Tartu wrote to us). As regards the use of private roads, it was said that the regulation on the public use of roads has not been amended in 20 years. The question here is how local authorities apply this provision. As far as the state of the road is concerned, it was answered that the current regulation has been left in the draft. The pavement bordering the plot must be maintained by the owner and by the local government itself it is possible to set and unwrite the rules of good order. The draft law implementing the Building Code and the Planning Act talks about the owner of the territory, who is the actual user, not the owner. This is due to practical considerations, as the owner can stay or live abroad and it is often difficult to find him. As regards the guarantee, the draft provides that the guarantee for the building will be extended to the consumer within the meaning of the Law of Obligations Act. The change in the regulation of the guarantee was due to the decision of the Supreme Court. In particular, in the Construction Act, the guarantee is currently discriminatory, i.e. it is not mandatory, although originally provided for in the Construction Act as an obligation. It makes sense to transfer it to the Law of Obligations Act. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the consumer is still a private person within the meaning of the Law of Obligations Act and not a legal person. It is therefore important that the provisions relating to guarantees are agreed between the parties and that they are also indicated in a debt contract. The other topics concerned planning. It was decided to place the draft building code on the agenda of the plenary session by 25 February, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 25 March. All decisions have been taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U113	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 555. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 555 amendments. 5 p.m. on 25 March 2004 The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U114	Let's go to item six. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Justice of the Chair, for presentation. This is a draft planning act initiated by the Government of the Republic, bearing number 571 and we are at first reading. Please, Mr. Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U115	Mr Vice-Chairman, I thank you very much for this beautiful introduction to the bill, which is very important and relates to the previous law. Of course, this is also a good bill. The need to draw up the full text of the new Planning Act was due to the fact that the modernisation of the area in question and the harmonisation of the law with the legal provisions resulting from the various fields could only be achieved through thorough restructuring. For the sake of clarity, the draft has been supplemented by solutions to problems encountered by stakeholders from the implementation analysis and discussions. Firstly, we have set out clear planning principles, including principles of public participation and access to information, balancing interests, omnipotence, rational, rational and sustainable land use and improving quality of life. It is clear that setting out the principles applicable to planning will help to delimit the broad discretion of planning and will also provide better opportunities for consideration of different rights and interests. The scope of the Act has also been clearly extended to water bodies, including public water bodies and the exclusive economic zone. The scope of application of a specific plan by type is also specified. The planning procedure has also been harmonised with the administrative procedure. For example, according to the Administrative Procedure Act, third and affected persons are defined and their involvement differentiated, as well as the co-ordination and opinion-makers. The provisions of the open procedure have been taken into account and the plan has been dealt with as an administrative act. Harmonisation with the general part of administrative law means, in particular, that the planning procedure is furnished by an administrative procedure and that recurrent provisions have not been transposed into the planning law. The Planning Act provides only for differences or legislation that has caused confusion in practice. A major change compared to the current one is that the planning process has been thoroughly harmonised with the Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) procedure. The procedures have been integrated in stages and the requirements for cooperation and inclusion have been harmonised. The publication of notices and the involvement of persons shall take place at the same time. This will allow the affected parties, on the one hand, to obtain more information on the proposed activities and their impact, on the other hand, to optimise the use of resources by the administration. The tasks of the planning have been changed and the National Institute for Special Planning has been established as a new type. The regulation of the country's special plan makes it possible to plan buildings that are important internationally or for the state through a special procedure. The special plan of the State is drawn up, in particular, for the expression of trans-regional interests in the fields of defence, security, energy, gas, transport, waste management and mineral extraction, or the expression of these interests in public water bodies and exclusive economic zones. The special national plan must be drawn up, for example, for the territory or part of the territory of the State, with a nominal electrical capacity of 150 MW, a high-voltage line from a voltage of 110 kilovolts and for the construction and operation of a hazardous waste disposal site, such as a public road, a public railway, a line installation, a pipeline, including a pipeline, as well as an international airport, an international port, a national defence or security authority. The list of items planned by the state with special planning is not exhaustive, and the Government of the Republic may decide each time that the special planning of the state is to be drawn up for the construction of a building not included in the list which meets the conditions set out in the Act. In general, it can be said that the buildings planned by the State with special planning include buildings whose construction is significantly dependent on the economic development of the whole or a large part of the country. Finally, I believe that this is a very logical design of the law, where the planning process has been taken to a 'clear gradation', from the country's special plan to the detailed plan. And everyone who wants to be involved in the planning process has been given a much greater opportunity to do so. We support the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U116	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U117	Thank you. For us, the Economic Commission has written the most about § 118 (5) in connection with the Planning Act, i.e. that the local government is able to allow the building to be erected without the obligation of a detailed plan. How do you comment on fears caused by the loss of detailed planning obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U118	Thank you. Yes, that is what we discussed in the Commission. Paragraph 118 states that detailed planning is required in cities, towns and towns and rural areas and in adjacent public water bodies for the construction of building permits etc. However, the general principle is that a detailed plan shall be drawn up unless the basic conditions of the existing building are changed or the main location of the plots is changed. Municipalities can further regulate building conditions in a specific area through building regulations, so in some cases planning for construction is not necessary. For the people of Tallinn there is the most famous Nõmme construction regulation, which specifically states how large Nõmme must be. And construction conditions are laid down by construction areas: how high a garden can be, how high a house can be, how much space there must be for parking, if you want to build an apartment building, etc. Nõmme is divided into separate construction areas and is subject to very precise construction instructions. In such cases, it is mostly not necessary to draw up a detailed plan for construction, as the general construction conditions are set out in the Construction Regulation. The Tallinn city's general plan also exists. So, in the case of a small residential area and in the construction regulation, the precise construction conditions of a small residential area are stated, it is not necessary to draw up a detailed plan for the construction of a building on an empty site. Of course, construction planning must in any case be drawn up when going beyond these limits, and when, for example, at the beginning of construction, construction permits are contested by neighbours and require detailed planning. The whole engagement process has gotten much better, for example, in case you have a cottage somewhere in the countryside, you yourself are not there permanently, but you would like to know what is happening within a 500-metre radius around your plot. Someone might want to start building there. It is then possible to give this information to the municipality and the municipality is obliged to inform you about it. So, on the one hand, inclusion is wider, on the other hand, indeed, if precise building rules have been laid down in the municipality, there is no practical need to draw up a detailed plan. There is, however, an important keyword: there is always a need to coordinate with our neighbours. If the neighbours do not give coordination and say that there is a need for planning, then the planning process must be started.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U119	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U120	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to tell a true story that has taken place in this legal space. It's about planning. One solid company wanted to initiate a detailed plan and five papers for the municipality, which is, of course, a very solid institution, but in that municipality these papers were put in a drawer. If they had been standing there for some time, that time exceeded a year, perhaps even two, then the company went to court. The court dealt with the case and took the decision that such conduct was not in accordance with the law. But the municipality also put that judgment in the drawer. In fact, this company was frustrated because it received no response. He couldn't initiate the process, and he didn't know what would happen next. Does the draft we are currently debating, which we will soon adopt as a law, rule out a situation in which it is possible to frustrate the company indefinitely, so that neither the law nor the judgments will be enforced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U121	Thank you. If the law and the judgment are not enforced, none of the law will help directly. In this case, enforcement proceedings must be carried out by means of coercive money and other administrative safeguards provided for by law. But now, if you think about whether such a situation might arise, the law will oblige the municipalities to process each plan within three years at the latest. No planning procedure shall last longer than three years. And there is usually no such concern in smaller municipalities; detailed plans tend to linger in larger municipalities. When it comes to maliciousness, my recommendation from this remote can only be that we have to use the remedies we have. The Administrative Procedure Act provides for administrative sanctions. The municipality can also be fined, as you said, with financial burdens against the municipality. Unfortunately, if the law is not complied with, then you must go to seek legal protection. And we've got legal remedies up to the fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U122	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U123	Thank you, Mr President. The establishment of the State Special Planning Institution directly affects and changes the position of the county and local level in the planning activities. This also significantly reduces the ability of the municipality and the county to participate in planning activities. What is the balancing mechanism for the centralisation of what is taking place in the planning process under this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U124	Thank you. I certainly do not agree that this is a centralisation. A country's special plan is needed in practice. If we are talking about Rail Baltic, for example, then we definitely need it. In the case of defence objects, this is also inevitable. If we are talking about even the planning of the sea area, I am thinking of an argument as to whether or not a wind farm can be built on the coast of Hiiumaa, whether or not a wind park can be established between Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, then in such cases, I think it is reasonable that we are creating a plan for a sea area wind farm, which defines the area where wind parks can be built in Estonia. And that's all we can do. For example, if there is a need to build a new piece of Tallinn-Tartu highway, it is a special plan of the state, which is based on the needs of the state and does not in itself disappear. Just from now on, the planning process will be in one place together.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U125	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U126	Thank you. Good minister! I'm kind of going on with the Neeme Big question. You are probably familiar with the controversy around the state architect and state architect institution. This concept does not exist in the current draft, although, as far as I know, this fundamental political agreement exists so that something like this could exist in the Republic of Estonia. When we drew up the main lines of cultural policy, until the last moment, the concept of state architect existed in this document, but because the ministries have not been able to decide whose administration it could operate, it fell out of the main lines of cultural policy. How do you assess the need to create an institution of the state architect? And if you think it's necessary, who would he belong to?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U127	Thank you. Yes, this issue was discussed at length during the procedure for this draft. My view is that we must, above all, be guided by the need for functions. If any functions need to be performed, then it is indeed the responsibility of the state apparatus to determine who must do so. Sometimes the government can appoint a ministry, and certain plans require the approval of the state. If you look at the general guidelines, which have also been mentioned in the case of the state architect, that its main function should be to give guidelines which basic values apply to planning, then these are the ones that we have written into the law. It's in § 8, and we wrote it in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, on the regional side, § 8 says what are the rights of the Ministry of the Interior. Yes, three options were selected: Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Ministry of the Environment. There were no Ministry of Culture, three mentioned in the selection. At the moment, the Minister for Regional Affairs has planning competence and we found it justified to remain under the direction of the Minister for Regional Affairs. The way the regional minister recruits advisers to his office or how he organises his own structure is his choice. But this 'delegation rule' follows from § 8 and is given to the Ministry of the Interior to fulfil the role of coordinator of the planning process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U128	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U129	Thank you. My question concerns this Article 8, which talks about the instructions that the Ministry of the Interior can give. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum that these instructions are not mandatory. The question is, how do you see the application of this section? If these instructions are not mandatory, what good are they? Please explain how this implementation process is going.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U130	Thank you. Of course, when we talk about giving instructions, instructions can also be mandatory. But the instructions are more in line with practice. Good practice in the planning process includes giving instructions. I don't see a problem here in that sense. I would rule out the possibility of giving an order in the hands of one person in Estonia. I cannot imagine that we should have one person in Estonia who says what is right and what is wrong. Just as lawyers sometimes cannot agree on content between themselves, architects certainly cannot agree that a single person can say what is right. For this reason, guidance can be drawn up in cooperation and during the planning process to give everyone the opportunity to be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U131	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U132	Thank you. § 133 of the draft law refers to the fact that the plans could also expire. However, this regulation is relatively weak. In the course of the procedure, was it during the debate that we have thousands and thousands of plans all over Estonia, which have, in essence, already expired? How do we organize this picture on the substantive side?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U133	Thank you. Cleaning could look very simple on its own. Each municipality makes an audit in its detailed plans. Those that are current and so-called active will be retained and those that are not current will be repealed under the new Planning Act. There's nothing complicated about it. The Riigikogu currently has a draft legislative revision concerning the legal order of the whole of Estonia. I imagine that it should not be a problem for a single municipality to review all the plans in its proceedings and decide what will remain of them and what will not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U134	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U135	Thank you very much for your explanation. I'll ask you a more specific question. In some countries, the so-called "automated time frame" is used if, for a certain period of time, the plan has not started to be implemented, it will expire, releasing the administrative burden on the municipality. Would it be possible to set such a time frame in Estonia? In construction we have an analogous principle in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U136	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U137	Thank you. With regard to the plans, we have been guided in particular by the commitment of the municipality so that it cannot delay the adoption of the plan. That's why there's a three-year deadline. I would not like to start setting deadlines now on the basis that if, for example, construction has not started in three years, the plan will automatically lapse. In view of the recent economic crisis, for example, some plans may have stopped for purely economic reasons since 2008 or 2009. Although the work has not started, the planning is still topical. You shouldn't take it the way that something automatically disappears into oblivion. Rather, it will be possible to repeal it if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U138	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft planning law together with the draft construction code and the draft law implementing it on 17 February and decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 25 February, to propose that the first reading of the above draft be completed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 25 March 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U139	Thank you. You have at least one question. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Is there any reason to rush into handling this whole package? Or do we have time to deal with these drafts calmly and in depth so that they can be very good? These are extremely important laws and we should not allow mistakes to pass. There has been a great deal of criticism here about all these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U141	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No requests, no suggestions to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 571 amendments. 5 p.m. on 25 March 2004 The first reading and the sixth item are therefore closed. Dear colleagues, we have one more point in today's session, but unfortunately we will not be able to open it again. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 12.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-25_U142	Definitely! That is why we also gave an exceptionally long deadline for amendments. It's a month longer than usual. No, I don't see why we should hurry. We have also been written by a large number of entrepreneurs and other people, settlement banks, etc. Surely we should deal with them thoroughly. It is still a whole new text that concerns a very broad area.
