ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister of Education and Science. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to report to the Minister for Education on the issue of supporting children with special educational needs. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, students with special educational needs are not only those who have a disability or medical condition, but also those who have learning difficulties, behavioural and emotional disorders, who have long been absent from school or who do not have sufficient knowledge of the school language, and may therefore need support staff and specially trained pedagogies. In 2006-2010 alone, 1437 boys, as well as 543 girls, dropped out of the final stage of comprehensive school. The fallout continues. The number of our students is shrinking, which, unfortunately, is being accompanied by an increase in the proportion of children with special needs, including mental and behavioural disorders. By 1 September 2014, at least one advisory committee is set up in each county, which should solve many problems, as stated in § 50 (1) of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act. However, unfortunately, second-level counselling takes place in counselling centres. According to the Praxis study, school and kindergarten managers and teachers prefer to have a support specialist in each institution. Hence our first question as to why there is a preference for national support for second-level counselling. On top of that, we have five more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We are literate people, just as more or less all Estonian residents, who are not toddlers. We read the newspapers, listen to the news and know what the National Audit Office has discovered in relation to the e-health information system and what the National Audit Office accuses the Ministry of Social Affairs of. A few minutes ago, an open meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control was closed with representatives of hospitals, the eHealth Information System, the Ministry of Social Affairs and several other parties. The meeting was trying to get an overview of the problem. But it went in the direction of just blaming each other. Hospitals blamed the foundation, the foundation accused the ministry, and the ministry accused both the foundation and hospitals. In general, it's crazy. That is precisely why the Centre Party Group is asking the Minister for Social Affairs about the eHealth Information System. Why has the eHealth Information System not been implemented despite the fact that some 15 million euros have been spent instead of the planned 2.8 million euros? We want to know from the Minister why the Ministry of Social Affairs has not ensured adequate supervision. We wonder what the next steps will be. Is it planned to spend another EUR 15 million or is the project declared a failure? How does the Minister assess the activities of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian E-Health Foundation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. The following messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu s. a draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated on 29 January, the commission of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Secondly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu s. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Estonian delegation' submitted on 29 January, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thirdly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act, initiated on 30 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 30 January and 6 February. Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the European Small Claims Procedure Regulation. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 13, 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the procedural rights package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions, directives and draft recommendations of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 13, 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft Council Directive amending Council Directive 2011/96/EU on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 20th at 4 p.m. Fourthly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on protection against the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of undisclosed know-how and business information (business secrets). The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 20th at 4 p.m. Fifthly, a draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union legal framework for infringements of customs rules and sanctions. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 20th at 4 p.m. Sixthly, the package on the placing on the market of novel foods, animal cloning and food derived from clones. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Rural Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic, the draft regulation and the draft directives. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 20th at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Attention, we're making a presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Please! [[The cavalry.]] Okay. Does the manager have to take a break? One moment, we'll check one more time. I'm canceling this presence check. Please, let's do the presence check one more time! [[Laughter. Summing.]] The machine immediately went to work on the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also withdraw this vote. Once again, please, let's do the presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against, with no abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U8	Let's start working on the agenda points this week. Answering questions begins. The first question to be heard is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Urbo Vaarmanni, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps and Esther Tuiksoo on 13 January. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U9	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Our inquiry concerns needs-based education support. In the course of the higher education reform, the system of education grants was changed and students from less well-insured families will be able to apply for needs-based education support from this academic year onwards. Its allocation shall be based on the student's average income, calculated on the basis of income taxed by the student and his or her family members' income tax, in the previous calendar year. However, the calculation of the family income based on the income tax return of the previous year does not provide an adequate picture of the family income at the moment when the student applies for needs-based education allowance. The problem also lies in the fact that parents, underage siblings, half-sisters and half-brothers are considered family members of the student when calculating the need-based education allowance; however, the household using the sources of income together is not considered. The application for needs-based student support has been rejected precisely because, based on population register data, the student has a parent who is expected to support his or her child (so is included in the explanatory memorandum to the Act amending student grants and student loan law and the Tax Administration Act), but does not really do so. In addition, the number of applicants for needs-based education support has remained more modest than expected. The reason for this is the lack of knowledge of the students. For these reasons, around 3000 students have been deprived of need-based education support. In this regard, we have put three questions to Mr Acousticum, which I am not going to read out. I hope the Minister does it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Please respond by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! Before I answer any specific questions, I'll say a few words for the introduction. The amendments to the University Act introduced free higher education and access to high-quality higher education free of tuition fees were made available to more than 4000 young people, which in my opinion has greatly improved the ability of Estonian people to exercise their right to a good higher education. In addition, unlike previous practice, when rather modest performance-based scholarships were foreseen, for the first time, needs-based study grants are now foreseen, which we estimate will allow more than a third of students who have started to study to receive grants up to EUR 220. This measure has also significantly increased access to higher education, especially for students from socially and economically weaker families and households. That is why I am also convinced that these measures have been an important contribution to both Estonian education and family and social policy. Now questions and answers. The first question: 'The student has the right to apply for needs-based education allowance twice a year. At the same time, the student's economic situation may change drastically in the meantime. You have said (the Riigikogu Question Time 11.12.2013) that a small buffer has been left to universities to deal with the exemptions in the event of a change in the student's economic situation. Please explain how this buffer works, how much funding has been allocated to it and how many students have benefited from it on the ground? ' Here too, a more general comment is appropriate first. The need-based education allowance is not intended as a student's salary. It is designed to support these students by providing the minimum resources needed to cope, who would otherwise have difficulty starting higher education or whose other sources of income would not allow normal living. In exceptional circumstances, it should be taken into account that the deterioration of the family's economic situation is not to be mitigated by education grants, but to use other social benefits and services schemes managed by the local government. It is also understandable that any assessment of income must cover a certain period. Two factors need to be taken into account when choosing this period. Firstly, this period should adequately reflect the student's or his family's income for a certain period of time, and secondly, it should be managed and managed by reasonable means. After consulting the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, we chose the approach of assessing revenue on the basis of national registers and the data on them. This will allow the economic condition of a household, family or student to be assessed with sufficient reliability and a low administrative burden. Changing this period requires an additional administrative apparatus and involves quite a large amount of bureaucracy. Bureaucracy, however, costs and costs are therefore reduced by the resource that can be allocated to support students. Already during the debate on the draft law and in several debates, I have said from this speaker that we have found an optimal balance, based on the understanding that need-based education support is family support based on the income from the previous year in the registers. On this basis, we have already distributed this grant for one semester. Each year, the Ministry of Education and Research has allocated resources to institutions for basic and additional study grants. The amount of grants will be agreed in the agreement concluded between the Ministry of Education and Research and the educational institution and derived from the number of full-time students studying in the institution. According to § 5 (5) of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, up to 50% of the fund's resources can be allocated to a special allowance fund set up by the educational institution. The Fund will be used to alleviate situations that prevent students from continuing their studies. The procedure for the use of the special allowance fund is approved by the institution of higher education, which is the body of higher education, and in cooperation with the student representation. It is true that students who started studying before 2013/14 can apply for support from this fund. the school year and this allowance is paid up to 2015/16. until the end of the academic year. Students who were matriculated since 2013/14. the year of study and who is entitled to apply for a needs-based study grant, the application for a grant from that fund shall not extend. Where necessary, educational institutions will be able to support their students from the resources allocated under the operating grant. After the first call for proposals, we will analyse the results and specific cases. If there is indeed an urgent need to expand the special fund, then we are ready to consider it together with the student associations. The data so far have not shown that such an addition is necessary. The second question: 'Very many students have been deprived of need-based support, as the application for support is based on a family rather than on a shared household on a daily basis. At the same time, there are many cases where one of the biological parents does not support their child and has never done so. What are you going to do to make the system more flexible and to make the need-based learning support fairer? " We do not know that many students have been deprived of need - based support. Support is divided according to the laws and rules laid down in them. The only major problem has been that, for several reasons, many students have either refused to complete the grant application or have not applied at all. I have repeatedly explained why family and not household are used as the basis for evaluating the application. One and the most important reason is that the definition of the household is linked to extremely high and costly red tape and, given the practice of registering the residence of the persons we use, it is easy to manipulate this system. Therefore, as you know very well, the Riigikogu has passed a law which results in an analysis of the student's income from the family rather than from the household. As a result, the Ministry of Education and Research does not initially plan to change the number of persons to be considered when determining the student's income, except for pending exceptions concerning family members over 18 years of age studying in general education schools. The Ministry is of the opinion that the existing system will allow support for students who actually need support who would be questionable access to higher education without support. The third question concerns informing students about the need-based application for study support. We've launched such a campaign. I believe that members of the Riigikogu have also noted the call for this support on the radio and other media. The answer to whether or not the student is entitled to support is quite operational and the application does not require excessive time or energy. The campaign costs EUR 5000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U12	Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I will take one particular case, for example. A young woman with a mother and a stepfather joined the University of Tartu this year. The stepfather is a pensioner and the household's income is very low. This girl does not receive needs-based education support because she has a father who is supposedly rich in Australia. How's that supposed to work? Does the buffer you described extend to such cases or not? There are more examples, I can send you a whole pile right now. But this example was for one particular person. What can I do? It is not a family, it is a household, and this household is poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U14	Thank you. Please, send me this piece of shit! I'll work it out and then I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U15	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U16	Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly said that a different system would lead to the creation of a huge bureaucratic apparatus. The Social Democrats, as we know, suggested that students could be trusted and limited to ex post random checks based on tax records, with very severe sanctions resulting in a violation of the rules. Why do you think students want to lie to themselves poorer, especially when it comes at the expense of fellow students? In that case, the student body's own social control would certainly be triggered. I wouldn't think so bad of future professionals, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U17	Thank you. I don't think bad about students either. But when it comes to paying out grants as an 'advantage' and imposing strict sanctions afterwards, let us look at the risks involved. Reclaiming money once it has been spent is also, if recovery is justified and perhaps even understandable to the student, rather complex both psychologically and materially. This is why all grants are usually treated proactively and not afterwards. I believe that this practice is not inappropriate for students either. For this reason, the Ministry of Education and Research considers that a system based on low bureaucracy and national registers is proportionate and fair, especially for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U18	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U19	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! If we look at our grants at all, which could certainly include needs-based learning support, we will see that they are still household-based. Support based on the concept of family is, at least, quite rare in the social system. That is what has caused the most questions and amazement, and that is why there has been confusion. When we dealt with the draft, even the most pessimistic assessment, we thought that there were about 5,000 students who needed need-based education support. However, payments have been made much less. As a minister, what do you consider to be the main reason for this? What does it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U20	As has already been said and not for the first time in this Chamber, the main reason is that students did not apply for this support. I believe that, because of the measures we have taken on the basis of practice, we will see an increase in the number of applicants after the semester that has already begun. By the way, this position was supported by a survey, the results of which were published today by Eesti Päevaleht. It follows from these that the student's average net income is 545 euros, which exceeds the minimum wage in Estonia with 90 euros. The same article shows that students whose income is less than EUR 300 per month are 34%, or about one third, which corresponds more or less to the assessment that the Ministry of Education and Research had when setting up needs-based study grants. I believe that about this is the proportion of students supported even after students are also informed this semester.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U21	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going back to the special fund. My question relates to those students whose economic situation is significantly deteriorating. When the introduction of this support was discussed, there were a number of proposals that would not have increased bureaucracy, but would have provided, for example, for cases where the student would be able to receive it exceptionally, for example in the event of the loss of the caterer or in other such cases. Then it was sound to the Ministry's claim that all these issues can be resolved within the framework of performance agreements and universities agree to set up special funds. I haven't found any information on the websites of the major universities either. Did I understand correctly what you said today that, in fact, these funds have not been set up so far, and those students whose economic situation has significantly deteriorated are now the only way to apply for income support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U23	As has already been said, it is in principle the view that education support is not intended to alleviate exceptional economic difficulties. This is a fundamental political choice. National measures are in place to deal with emergency situations. The question is whether it would be necessary to create some kind of buffer funds, along with the inevitably accompanying bureaucracy. As I have already said, and again, we are waiting for the analysis we are doing on the basis of the first semester, we are looking at how many such cases exist, and we are already deciding in an informed situation, without political and sometimes emotional debate, based on data. That could be a reasonable way. We wait for the results, see how many cases there are, and then we decide, on the basis of proportionality, whether the creation of an additional instrument is justified or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U24	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, If the student started studying in 2013 and his or her parents' income on the basis of the income tax return is 12 euros higher than if they were allowed to receive this allowance, even if the student only studies on reference, he or she will also not receive a successful student scholarship or grant. Do you consider this to be the right situation? However, perhaps there is a reason for those who are really studying successfully, only for reference or for A, to be able to also apply for so-called "learning outcomes-dependent" support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U26	I think they have the right to apply for support dependent on learning outcomes. Such a scheme exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U27	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, You said that there are not many students who have missed out on needs-based support paid under the existing system. It would be interesting to know how many there are. Are there one, two, ten or a hundred students who have approached you or the Ministry of Education and Research on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U29	No one has ever approached me, even though I have said from this speaker that it could be done freely. I understand the vigilante, Yana Toom, has been approached by an entire ponytail. I'm sure I'm gonna work through this pussy, and then I'm gonna give you some information on how the situation of these students can be alleviated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U30	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U31	Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in one of your answers that students have been surprisingly lukewarm in applying for student benefits. I will elaborate on the question of my colleague, Esther Tuiksoo. How many applications have been submitted in percentage terms but have not been satisfied?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U32	I'll tell you by memory. Of the statements made in the electronic environment, if I remember correctly, about a quarter were rejected. I call on all those who feel that they may have the right to receive this support to make a bold request. Nothing bad happens when a negative decision comes. Let us not worry about how many rejections there were. Let us be concerned, above all, that all those in need receive this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U33	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. Do colleagues want to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Yana Toomi, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U34	Madam President! Therefore, since there is only one question that can be asked, I would now just like to quote the honourable Minister's speech in Question Time, which took place last December when we spoke on the same subject. I then asked about household or family support: 'The explanation says that in the population register data, every child is related to the parents. There may also be cases where the parents are divorced, but the records show that the parents are identifiable and we assume (This means that the authors of the explanatory memorandum assume. Y. T.) that they both support their child. However, it is clear in the Family Act chapter entitled "Maintenance obligations arising from an upbringing' that any child must be supported from the age of 18 to the age of 21 when he or she is studying in a secondary school or vocational training institution. What, then, do we rely on, assuming that parents support their student child for so long, if, for example, the court only assigns alimony until the child reaches the age of 18? ' That's what I asked the Minister. The minister replied: "We can imagine, of course, that we are living in a world where the only obligations come from the law. However, I am convinced that not only myself but also all the others in this Chamber have either supported or been prepared to support their student children until the end of their studies, in accordance with economic opportunities, of course. If you (that is, I, Y.T.) really consider it necessary that this obligation should be laid down in the law, then such a bill may be initiated and processed in the Riigikogu. ' I hope that one day the Ministry of Education will do so, because so far it has become completely incomprehensible, on which we rely in the hope that one sloppy or simply poor person will be able to support his child for such a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U35	Thank you very much. Mailis Reps, where do you want to play, the remote? Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! It is clear that this is not the first time that we are talking about a very important issue concerning the whole reform of higher education. The aim of the higher education reform was to provide free higher education for every young person. Clearly, the steps taken are the right ones. A very small number of secondary school graduates in the next few years will inevitably lead to a situation where we need to agree quality among ourselves; we will no longer have any reason to talk about a very large competition for university places. The steps taken to gradually move to free higher education had to offer free learning with scholarship or support to all young people who wanted to commit to their studies. Discussions on needs-based education support were relatively brief in the Riigikogu Hall, but they were quite lively in the committee. The same dispute with the household versus the family was also then up. Although it has to be said that due to the new draft of the Social Democrats, which was dealt with for a very long time last year, the new concept of the household in the Law on study grants and student loans came as a surprise to several members of the coalition. In essence, it is a completely different approach when there is a social system based on real people living together, not on the fact that somewhere in the vast world there may be a biological parent of a student who, according to our laws, should be obliged to support his or her child. A considerable proportion of children raised by one parent live with their mother, with more and more children living with their mother. It should be clear to the members of the Riigikogu, and certainly also to the members of the government, that the issue of maintenance is often not solved in 18 years. But when a child reaches university age, why do we suddenly think that an elder who has not been able to pay for a living all these years will support a young person studying at university? The fact that a young person who may have come from a very poor household may lose need-based education support only because there should be a biological parent somewhere who should have supported him so far is more than too much. I therefore call once again on both the coalition and the Minister for Education and Research to look at this problem with that eye in order to find a solution that young people need. It is probably not just that students have been poorly informed. Real life can lead to the fact that because of a biological parent who has not supported his or her child, this young person in a very difficult situation has to go to work because he or she cannot apply for needs-based education allowance. Finding a solution should be a goal for all of us, whether it be called a buffer zone, flexibility or the university's quick opportunity to intervene. But more than simple and cheap statistical solutions are definitely needed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U37	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations, and I will also conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U38	The next question is the question of the questions submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urbo Vaarmanni, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kadri Samson and Peeter Võsa on 27 January. I ask my colleague Urbo Vaarmanni of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U39	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. My inquiry has been made because of the rebellion at Tapa Special School. I would like to add to the text of the inquiry that, after the inquiry was handed over and all this shit happened there, I tried to communicate with the school. I don't think I'm the only person who's ever tried. But the school is forbidden to communicate and, unfortunately, there are no more answers, saying that you only have to communicate with the ministry. But now you're asking yourself questions. There was a riot at Tapa Special School, which culminated in smashing windows, attacking teachers, and mass flight of students from the educational establishment. Fortunately, the people who escaped were quickly caught and returned to school, some of them being taken to the detention house, if I am not mistaken, there were five of them. In school, problems arise from the fact that pupils at different risk levels are present together. School rooms are arranged in such a way that 12-year-old children who simply have learning difficulties and 17-year-old senior criminals who have already been in Viru prison can be together in the same rooms. This raises a wide range of problems at school. In special schools there are supervisors who have to deal with ordering young people, many of whom have been in prison for some time. If the standard supervisor's salary level is about 480 euros, as I understand it, the wage level for prison officers who do the same work is about 1200 euros, yet both have to deal with relatively similar conflicts. It is therefore difficult to find monitoring staff in special schools because of the low pay and the difficulty of working. We want answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U40	Thank you very much, Mr Vaarmann. Minister of Education and Science, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U41	President-in-Office of the Council. Good questioners! Indeed, the situation at Tapa School is not what we would like. In order to address the problems that have accumulated over the years, it is best to ensure that professionals and employees have a calm work and to avoid exposure, excessive public attention and other activities, whether politically or with a good heart, which make it more difficult, not easier, to deal with children with behavioural and mental disorders. I have addressed the media with this request, and I am pleased that the press has understood the justification for a restrained approach. Now I'm gonna answer the questions. Indeed, until the end of 2013 the government decree introduced higher wage rates for teachers in HEV schools, depending on the type of school. The 25% higher minimum wage was for school teachers in schools in need of special educational conditions and with emotional and behavioural disorders. These schools are managed by the Ministry of Education and Research and their remuneration fund is planned on the basis of the framework guidelines for the wage organisation of state schools. In previous years, there was no additional cost for staff working with children with special educational needs, but the minimum wage for these teachers was higher. As you know very well, we have not considered it appropriate to set different wage rates for different categories of teachers on the basis of the law. This does not mean, however, that we should not have to differentiate salaries in schools, with much more than we have done so far. We have allocated additional resources for this purpose to all schools, both local government and state schools. The need for higher wages in schools for children with special educational needs must also be taken into account. More specifically in view of the Tapa case, a salary of EUR 1014 per month was paid in 2013 at Tapa Special School, which is almost 10% higher than in the ordinary school. In addition to higher pay, it is important to ensure a sufficient number of specialists directly dealing with children per student and their preparation in the special school. Currently 38 students are studying at Tapa Special School and there are 58 employees, i.e. 1.5 employees per student. The second question: 'It is known that the salary of a special school supervisor is repeatedly lower than the gross wage of a guard working in a youth unit in prison. Do you not think that the employees of special schools are clearly underpaid and to what extent do you consider that wages should be increased? " It is not known to me that the salary of a special school supervisor would be several times lower than the gross salary of a prison guard working in a youth unit. The Minister of Justice can comment on the actual remuneration of prison officers. I have no impression that he will find that these officials are not underpaid. All Estonian employees are underpaid. But according to the website of the Ministry of Justice, the prison guards' salary is comparable to that of special school supervisors. The prison guard's salary starts with EUR 490 depending on the qualifications and reaches EUR 1300. On average, the Ministry has allocated EUR 800 per supervisory post per month to special schools, which is more or less the average salary of prison or supervisory officers. Therefore, the opinion is not valid, as if the salary of a supervising officer was several times lower than the gross salary of a prison guard working in a youth unit. Staff policy decisions, including salary decisions, shall be taken by the Director of the School. For example, EUR 844 per month will be paid to supervisors at Kaagvere Special School. There is, however, another point that I think it is necessary to draw attention to. We have gradually moved towards ensuring that the school for children with behavioural and mental disorders and the special study conditions created there are not dealt with at the same level, while the rhetorical, same key, while the prison or youth prison is not dealt with in the same way. This is a fundamental change in the approach that we have inherited from the former system. We are moving towards this awareness that these are children who need special training and education conditions, which are not a punitive, but rather a supportive and helpful objective. I hope, good people ambassadors, that you will share this view, which we have tried to formulate in the concept of learning organisation for pupils with special educational needs and which the Ministry of Education will carry out in the day-to-day work of special schools. In part, I have now answered the third question, which reads: 'Ericolic workers have complained that they do not have real punishment opportunities and therefore students are clearly crossing their orders. How do you plan to correct growers' rights? " A good questioner! Special school is not a penal institution. The possibilities used in special schools are laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and in the Minor Influences Act. In addition, the Court has given the right to restrict certain freedoms of children during their stay in school. The possibility of restricting freedoms is inherently of punitive effect. How the school has been able to exercise these rights in shaping children's behaviour is a matter of organisation. We have schools where it works well, but unfortunately there have also been cases where the organisation of the school has not been at the level we would have liked to have seen. Compared to the possibilities of special schools and other general education schools to influence children's behaviour, it is evident that the law has given additional opportunities to special schools in a completely proportionate manner. The proposed new law (the Ministry of Education and Research has prepared a draft law on interference with the child's offence) and new school buildings will improve the chances of learning and education activities based on the risks and needs of each child, which, unlike the current situation, would allow each child's needs to be more individualised. Question 4: 'Special schools work in a situation where there is a 12-year-old little thief boy and a 17-year-old senior criminal within the same walls. Do you think this coexistence is normal and you don't see the problem? How is the situation to be resolved? " The students of a special school are indeed young people of up to five years of age. However, the majority of them are 14 to 16 years old and 12 and 17 years old are single in special schools. Of the 38 students of Kill Special School, only four are under the age of 14. The school can divide students by age into classes or education groups and ensure their separation. If a special school wishes to open a separate group or small class, it is sufficient for it to contact the representative of the schoolkeeper. The special school must certainly take into account the particularities of children's age when organising education and education, but also take into account the level of risk, language, gender, the specific features of the prescribed curriculum and many other social, medical, psychological and educational needs. Taking these specific features into account requires much more resources than regular schools. This is why the operating costs per student in a special school are four times higher than in other schools for children with special educational needs and up to ten times higher than in a regular school, amounting to EUR 25000 to EUR 30000 per year. According to the new HEV concept, the network of special schools is reorganized according to the level of behavioural risk of children. Students with similar risk levels will learn and live in one building complex, regardless of their sex, with them separate from other groups. Unfortunately, the current study facilities do not support the principles of education and education to the extent that we would like to see them. Therefore, the Ministry has started renovation operations for buildings in special schools. Construction of the Tapa school building has been announced, construction of the buildings of Kaagvere Special School and Tallinna Konstantin Päts Open Air School will be announced in February and March. By September 2015, all three schools will be updated. Ladies and gentlemen, For quite a long time, there has been an unacceptable number of problems in these schools and their children. I therefore very much hope that you will have the patience to contribute to the measures we have taken in the Ministry of Education and Research over the last few years in order to better care for the educational needs of these children. As has already been said, new study facilities and school management are being reorganized by combining them with a common administration that allows for a more flexible response to emergency situations, exchanges of experience and staff, including, where appropriate, students, by directing them to the best conditions for their development and studies. It is not of any minor importance that the concept of learning organisation for pupils with special educational needs has finally been drawn up and can be used to address these problems more systematically. Finally, I refer to changes in the law. From a punitive approach to a supportive approach will be moved to a supportive approach. This has been done with a draft law on interference with the child's offence, which, I hope, will be on your tables before the big summer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U42	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U43	Thank you. Dear Minister, In June 2011, the Ministry of Education and Research prepared a completely new system of special treatment for minors and a law on this issue. Last year, this bill was sent to the coordination circle. As you have already said, this is a draft law on interference in the child's offence case. However, since this draft had not been negotiated with even the most important partners, it has not been coordinated to date. The question is whether you are sure that it will still be coordinated and negotiated with partners first.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U44	Good questioner! The complaint that this bill had not been negotiated with our partners, I do not want to accept it in any way. Rather, too much was said and for too long, perhaps negotiations could have been delivered more intensively and effectively. But the main problems that arose with this particular bill were some, let's say, more general plan disagreements with the Ministry of Social Affairs. They concerned whether the draft law on interference in the child's offence should not be dealt with within the framework of the Child Protection Act, as ideology requires. Intervention for offences should not be of a punitive nature, but simply part of child protection activities. This general political debate is ongoing. But I am optimistic, I do not see very significant obstacles in the government to the referral of this bill to the Riigikogu before the big summer. I believe you can also improve this bill in the Riigikogu, compared to the shape of its government. But I very much hope that both in law and in everyday practice, the principle that we urgently need will be followed and moved from a punitive and repressive approach to a supportive approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U45	Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U46	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to this law that has been spoken of for a very long time. Now some of the school staff have been charged with criminal charges. In my opinion, we are not thinking about what to do next, but about denying the problems. Doesn't this place have a bit of a comic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U47	I'm sorry, but I don't understand the question. I don't see any comics in this situation. If you think there's a reason to laugh about it, I don't know how to comment on it. As regards what happened at Tapa Special School and what is happening now, I have already said that I do not think it would be reasonable to devote excessive political attention to it, nor can the situation be considered comical. Rather, experts and other people who are in the process of resolving these problems should be given the opportunity to move forward with this work. We have to do our job. The draft law has been prepared, and it is also coming from the government to the Riigikogu. As has been said, there is nothing ridiculous about this, this is a serious problem that has unfortunately been unsolved for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U48	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U49	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Today's round of questions and answers did not provide much information either for us or, unfortunately, for all those who hoped to have any answers to their questions. What are the specific steps taken by the Ministry, with which the state must help to solve the problem and try to find solutions together, except for internal investigations and the prosecution of the school's leadership? The fact that you say that the coverage of this case is politicised or that society pays unhealthy attention to it is one approach. Let's not talk about it. There's gonna be another scandal. This happened in Kaagvere, where nothing really changed after that, so happened in Nõmme's temporary shelter, and in fact nothing changed in the country's approach. Now we're talking about Kill. What are these concrete steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U50	Good questioner! I read your press release too, and it just made me sad. It radiates an unwelcome approach to problems in a constructive way. If, in your opinion, the steps taken at the conceptual level and at the level of legislation are not sufficient if, in your opinion, it is not enough that the school's learning environment has been changed and, in order to support this school's activities, there are additional specialists, additional resources have been allocated and there has been strengthened school management, then I will only have to ask what is sufficient. I would basically like to refute your statement as follows: 'We certainly hope to hear from the Minister about the concrete and substantive steps that the government will take on this issue. Instead of hearing another blank school charge. " Whoever blamed the school will not understand. Let the questioner and the politician's conscience be concerned about how all of this affects the school collector and the students who study in this school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U51	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You rightly said that such issues must not be burdened with political attention and that there must be no policy here. Rather, it is a pity for all those who are in school and who work with their students. Today's conversation, however, gave the impression that the state was just about to do something, that the new law might be coming here before the big summer, that the school was undergoing structural restructuring, etc. Don't you think that the ministry could actually go there as a matter of urgency, either financially or with extra staff, to create something that would simplify the situation at that school? For example, there is a reserve of the Government of the Republic to speed up the improvement of the school situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U53	Good questioner! All the steps you have mentioned have already been taken. I have been there myself, almost every day there are specialists from the Ministry and other schools to find a solution to the situation. I think you're breaking in with excess force through a completely open door. All these steps have long been taken; they were taken immediately after the problems had occurred. I believe that this situation should be taken calmly and, as has already been said, that specialists should be given the opportunity to work. The politicised debate hardly improves this situation, rather it worsens the atmosphere that these people need for work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U54	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister for Education and Science. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U55	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is an interesting approach that if the Riigikogu draws attention to a question that concerns this school collector and all specialists dealing with difficult young people, the Minister calls it a political debate. Okay, but I don't think all journalists, special school educators and the representatives of the prosecutor's office or the police who spoke a pretty crisp word last week at the Justice Department would all be politicised in this sense, as Mr Aaviksoo meant. Indeed, this is a topic that has been rolled back and forth for ten years as hot potatoes. Today it came out again by saying that there is some new draft that is supposed to reach us here in the summer, and after that, all the questions will be resolved. I am afraid that if the solution to another problem is pushed behind it, it is not what the teachers and educators of the Special School and Kaagvere Special School of Tapa want, nor are the people who work on the juvenile Affairs Commission or are dealing with young people in the police. There is also a need for a response from workers in completely ordinary schools who are faced with a situation in which the system that still worked a few years ago (maybe it was sometimes in a loophole, but still) has not been replaced by anything other than the concept. So what's missing? First of all, there are no conditions at school. Secondly, the following problem has arisen. We are talking about a legal approach for young people who have gone around in prison or who even have multiple prison experiences. If a trainer who is on night watch makes this young man settle down alone or, in certain cases, if a young person is addicted, sends a room without windows, he has violated his rights and therefore is being investigated against him. Therefore, the question may arise as to what motivates these people to work in this school. We can argue here at political or substantive level whether it is rights or penalties. However, it is an institution that is an alternative to prison or criminal investigation. In a special school, young people not only have the freedom, the opportunity and the right to study, but also receive support for it. We're very happy that there's only less than 100 of these kids when you bring the girls and the boys together. If you add a dozen young people under pre-trial investigation and a few more prison youths, we are also talking about a very small proportion of young people. We should find a more concrete solution, not deal with toiletry. Indeed, instead of accusing the School of Internal Affairs, substantial support should be provided and reinforcements sent there to ensure that there are people on night watch at the premises of the most difficult young people with prison experience. If this collective were allowed to communicate normally with specialists from outside, we would certainly have taken a step forward. Indeed, this is not a prison. It is a special school, but it is not a regular school. Teachers and educators need to be expelled here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U56	Thank you, Mr Mailis Reps! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U57	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible for everyone, after my hammer strike, to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U58	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of January, I received two letters. Looking at today's agenda, which contained enquiries on the very topics mentioned in these letters, I felt it was necessary to read these letters. The first letter is this: "I am a single mother raising three children alone. My older kid's in college. When we heard that there would be a free higher education, we were very excited and believed that it would be easier to study him too. The youngest child is still in kindergarten and the average is in upper secondary school. Both older children have only studied at school for very good grades. Now for the country and the help. I work two jobs to make it work. There is no need-based student support for our family because it turns out that we are 13 euros richer because the 2012 Christmas Prize made our data in the tax return such that the daughter who started studying at the university in September 2013 does not receive support. Neither does the old system receive support, the so-called scholarship for studying very successfully, because there are no such tools in the university. We also do not receive needs-based family support, because the third child, who still needs expenses and support at the expense of the family, is of an adult age. Neither is income support. Again, I'm guilty of working. In the winter months, December, I tried to apply for it. It turned out that I was 25 euros richer, even though in November I was out of work because of my illness. You can't apply for needs-based family support from the municipality, I'm rich again. Why is it that when the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Justice answer questions, they stress that the questioners are exaggerating, in fact, according to statistics and Eurostat, everything is in the best order? Why, though, is it that on payday I pay bills, gymnastics for school food, kindergarten and food, and the student's rent and I have to take all the skills, tricks and tricks to feed the family and the student? If I didn't make clothes for myself and the kids at night, if I didn't grow carrots, potatoes and other vegetables on a country near town myself, if I didn't work two jobs, I wouldn't be able to do it. I'm not lazy, and I certainly don't want to be in need of help, and, with my hands long, go for help. But believe me, I wish my children a better life, and right now it seems to be elsewhere in the country. My kids are gonna be somebody's pensioners in the future. Why, then, are they in a situation today that the state does not support their growth? There are a number of women in my work group who have been waiting for their husbands for a living on the basis of a court decision for years. When I heard the Minister of Justice, when he spoke about the livelihood fund, stressing that he did not agree that honest taxpayers had to pay a fund that supported raising children, it seemed strange that we were all paying for the maintenance of prisoners, honest taxpayers, and no one asked whether we were in agreement. I do not agree that the government will give a gift again, and instead of 21%, income tax will be 20%. It is justified that everyone does what he wants with his own money. What can I afford for 3.80 a month more than a nationalist, a minister or a Prime Minister, for example, get 40 euros a month more? Why don't you think about what people really expect, given their sense of justice? ' Mrs. Aime Hot from Viljandi County has written a letter titled 'A change of attitude'. This concerns the Question Time of the Riigikogu on 23 January. Its text is as follows: 'In the recent Question Hour of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister stressed that the state's aid in the form of a corresponding fund is not a magic wand that would help children who are in distress due to abstinences from the payment of a living allowance, but the main thing is to change the attitude of all those who do not fulfil their parent's (mostly father's) obligations. The children who have not been supported are probably not much help from this opinion, and a certain amount of money would still be more helpful. 'Helping those who can help themselves' has long been the position of our country. Apparently, it's time to review that attitude. And should not the government change its attitude instead of ignoring problems and start looking for ways to help those who cannot? After all, children are our future. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U59	Thank you! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U60	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where my colleague ended up. We're used to saying that children are our future, but we don't know if there is, because one coalition party doesn't really feel that way. The softest thing I've ever heard about them is that they're a bunch of assholes, those IRLs. We're talking about the same educational system. Last week, Aurora sounded like a cannon bang. I don't think anyone noticed that the local governments only flinched when they received a letter from the Ministry of Education explaining what the school financing system would be for this year and the following academic year. Ladies and gentlemen, These unpleasant questions, which the Minister of Education, for answering in this Chamber, was so scary sidestepping and silent that peace would be in the house, have, after all, been decided as they wanted. Right now, the first calculations show what we were afraid of. In the near future, more than half of upper secondary schools are in very serious financing difficulties and these schools are likely to be closed. In today's world, only well-educated people can succeed in the country. But what are they doing now? Upper secondary schools start disappearing one by one. What's already going on all over the country gets more speed. Instead of ensuring that every child can receive upper secondary school education, this opportunity is simply taken away from the children of a very, very large number of rural municipalities and cities. They are offered a choice, whether to limit their basic education or to move away from their municipality or municipality of residence. It's just incredible. How can one party, I mean IRL, hate my country and people like that? I think it's unimaginable. By the way, there's a funny side here, too. The IRL has been responsible for education for many years. Financial conditions are currently being created to allow secondary schools to be closed down throughout Estonia. Personally, I predict that about 50 upper secondary schools will disappear this year. These calculations have long been completed. At the same time, these same representatives of the IRL report to the Tallinn Council that Tallinn is forced to join some secondary schools. It just means some school names disappear. With one hand, IRL takes away the money, but then he starts demanding justice and asks why schools are being shut down. I'm not having any fun standing here telling you this. It seemed to me in the autumn that the IRL had come to its senses, after all, it has been realised that Estonia exists as long as there is a municipality. But the municipality can only be if in the middle of this village or settlement stands a school. The school is the foundation of this, not the prison or special school that was spoken of here today, but the ordinary primary school with the upper secondary school. And high school has to be. It is just basic school that never achieves the same level as this school with both primary and upper secondary school. It's been said a thousand times and proven hundreds of times. Let's remember that February, that Aurora cannonhole. I think that all the negative processes that are currently taking place in Estonia will gain more acceleration. There's nothing positive about all of this, only negative. Yeah, 2% of GDP goes to national defence. God would give in 20, 30, or 40 years to have something to protect, because if the education system is going to change like this, it's probably not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U61	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, local government officials were approached. All of them have a very big problem. This is due to the fact that the Ministry of Finance has issued a decree to the Government of the Republic for the period 2014-2014. The distribution and extent, conditions and procedure of distribution of the compensatory and support fund assigned to local authorities by the State Budget Act 1994'. It is not clear to local government leaders, to people who work in local governments and are involved in financial matters how local governments can manage to pay teachers and pay class managers. The basis for the new national minimum wage rate does not give the possibility to do so to the extent that teachers were previously allowed to do so. We remember that when we discussed and approved the state budget in this Chamber, the educational costs had to allow for a 12% increase in teachers' salaries. However, if we look at these figures now, we will see that only a quarter of the municipalities will have enough money to do so. I took out the numbers on Kohtla-Järve. The amounts for staff costs increased by EUR 41800 compared to the previous year, but for our city this means an increase of less than 1%. This means that there really is a great concern about how to proceed in 2014. It can be said with certainty that, according to the regulation, there is a lack of resources for the continuing training of pre-school teachers, student councils, higher grades of language immersion teachers and group classes of Estonian classes with Russian language. The most interesting thing is that according to the Ministry of Finance, these funds have been transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. It is not clear in local governments to what extent and how these funds can be obtained. The allocation system is not transparent. There is another big question. Why did this system have to be so complicated? In 2013, the distribution of funds to each local government and school director was clear. In my opinion, ministers and officials of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance should think carefully about how to implement the promises that ministers have made to teachers from this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-10_U63	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.25 p.m.
