ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! Ladies and gentlemen, events in Ukraine have been extremely tragic. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I propose that you respect the memory of the deceased with a silence of mourning. [[The silence of grief.]] Now, on behalf of the Bureau, I am ready to adopt drafts and enquiries. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you briefly to the question that we, the members of the Central Party Group, are presenting to the Minister of Education, Mr Ossinovski. The reason is a debate that has lasted more than a year in the Riigikogu, in which we have essentially and in detail resolved questions that are still included in the teacher's working hours 35 hours, how many guarantees the teacher needs, and to what extent the law should reflect the principle of giving an earlier 18 to 24 lessons. In fact, the previous coalition decided that it would be sufficient for the law to speak of 35 classes, 18 to 24 hours no longer required for basic school and upper secondary school law. We have had the opportunity to exchange ideas with the Socialist Group over long hours of the night, who at least then was clearly of the opinion that such uncertainty was detrimental to teachers. As last week the new minister concluded an agreement on the quality of state secondary schools, which also includes the quality of education and the workload of teachers, we are interested in the aims and wishes of Mr Ossinovski, including the extent to which he believes that the provisions on the workload of teachers should be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U3	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U4	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment presents a draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre." The three new members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre would be members of the Riigikogu, Mr Kalev Kotkas, Mr Rein Randver and Mr Tõnis Kõiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U5	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U6	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a large number of members of the IRL Group to report to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications on the fact that the temporary government has begun to restructure the funding of road maintenance. We will taste its bitter fruits in years' time. While the law currently obliges 75% of excise duties on fuel to spend on the maintenance and construction of roads, the government plans to abolish this obligation. This means that if the money for road construction is guaranteed by some kind of tax now, then in the future it will depend on the will of the government. The necessary continuity in road maintenance is lost, as are asphalt holes and dust clouds in the home gardens of people living next to the smaller roads of Estonia. On 30 April, the Minister of Finance submitted a draft law amending the Road Act to coordinate, which seeks to waive the principle of 75% of the amounts received in excise duties on fuel for the maintenance of roads. Although the draft explanatory memorandum thus aims to achieve more flexible planning of the state budget, it is obvious that the real incentive for the change is the Government's desire to take money at the expense of roads to honour the naked promises made in the coalition agreement. On 29 April this year, the government approved a state budget strategy with EUR 25 million less money planned for road maintenance than provided for by the law in force. In this context, we ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Urve Palol, pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to answer five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U7	Thank you. As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U8	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Waste Act. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U9	Honourable Riigikogu! I have adopted two drafts and two questions on behalf of the Bureau. The Board of the Riigikogu decides their procedure in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 74 members of the Riigikogu are present, 27 are missing. The agenda for this week will be approved next. No new proposals, I will put this week's agenda to the vote as it stands. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 13th working week of the VII plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U10	Today we have a free microphone round on the agenda. After the hammer hit, please sign in! Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are witnessing the first serious conflict in the new government coalition. Urve Palo, an energetic Social Democrat minister, proposed the idea of building state rental apartments. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance of the Reform Party, was stunned by a bee when he heard of this idea. At the previous government press conference, a real word war broke out between the two ministers, which the Tallinn TV news show showed nicely to the general public. So, what's this about? Apartments are expensive, and not all families can buy them. The market for public housing would help to lower prices, but this is exactly what the Reform Party of the Money Men is afraid of, like the old devil's lightning. Nothing's gonna get cheaper for us! Let the people pay, let the prices rise, the profits have to be good, and they have to go into squirrel wallets. Tallinn has built municipal apartments and life has shown how much people want these apartments. 5,000 apartments have been built, but demand continues. Don't want to be all owners! Many prefer to rent the dwelling rather than buy it for real, but the idea of Taavi Rõivas' government is not appropriate, because prices cannot be lowered in Estonia. It's the biggest sin the government could commit. Let the people pay! We want to be Europeans, but our government is afraid of European customs. In large cities such as Paris, London, Stockholm, etc., up to 40% of the housing fund is public or municipal. In Finland, 7,000 new social housing will be built next year. Their rent is significantly lower than the overall market price. However, this programme is not suitable for the Estonian government. At the same time, the standard of living of our people is low. According to the popular Capital newspaper today, housing costs in Estonia have increased by as much as 163% between 2001 and 2014. Real wages are in these years, but look at the fall. Perhaps we could help our young families by offering them more affordable apartments. But no, you can't! Public housing and public rentals would distort competition, says today's pink newspaper Äripäev. It would be better to say that public housing would not allow so many people to be kidnapped. But this robbery needs to be continued, as the people have too much money. Let the young families struggle, but the high incomes of the real estate sharks must continue. A high rent or 30-year bank loan for a young family is best suited to Taavi Rõivas, perhaps Europe's youngest prime minister. But he could also think of a young family who earns little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U12	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've known Tunne-Väldo Kelam for 15 years. I remember things about him that he thinks it's best to forget. But Feel Kelam knows almost nothing about me. And that's why I'm on the remote. In today's Postimees, he wrote about me, about his competitor in the Euro Parliament elections, that I am a person who opposes young people learning Estonian. I'm gonna tell Kelam something about my life. I am a certified Estonian teacher, a philologist. I began teaching Estonian in 1988 at Narva Vocational High School No. 8. For four years, I had 500 students there. Since 1991, I continued at the Narva Language Center, where I was a Methodist. I had a total of 2,600 adult students, the absolute majority of whom took the exam and also received citizenship. I'm not bragging or proud, but I had a line of students who wanted to learn Estonian for months. My seven students became teachers of Estonian and started from scratch. When I started in the late 1980s, there was basically a single Leberecht textbook in Estonia. It was very difficult to teach Estonian, and I put together my teaching materials. We sent the project to the Finnish embassy, the textbook printing was paid off, and almost 40,000 copies appeared in 1996. A few years ago, the third edition of this textbook was released, and it's still in stores. That means the textbook is still popular. Can Tunne Kelam tell us how he protects Estonian, apart from rhetorically making idiotic accusations? Two years ago, the same publisher asked me to review the dictionaries. I reviewed 38 Russian-Estonian dictionaries issued in the last 33 years. It turned out that there was no one among them that could normally teach Estonian, as there are no strings or inverters in these glossaries. I mean, it's a macular, it doesn't teach the Russian Estonian. I've compiled a dictionary that is unique. It's unique because it has all the forms in it. Every person who learns Estonian should have this dictionary in place, and I can't imagine how to teach and learn Estonian without it. In my day, in the mid-1990s, I proposed such an idea. We dealt with the elderly in Narva, who had 8700 people. Most of the pensioners who attended our classes went to the exam after. The exams at that time were affordable to them, and the absolute majority of them became loyal Estonian citizens. As an employee of the Narva Language Center, I have trained teachers who later went to work at school. When I started in 1989, there were 1,600 students in Narva and only two Estonian teachers on top of the city. When we graduated from the Narva Language Center, there were over 100 teachers. All the need was covered, and behind it was our big job. And the last thing I want to say is that people like Tunne Kelam can hit me with random accusations, that doesn't offend me. But that's also the case with the Special Branch, you're being driven in, and you're being accused of something that is exactly the opposite of what you've done. I have taught Estonian and taught people to love it because it is very beautiful. And as a candidate for a Member of the European Parliament, I say to you that if I am in the Euro Parliament, my working language there is Estonian, not English or French, like Kelam. This is what Estonia expects of its ambassadors in the Euro Parliament: to promote a beautiful, extremely melodic Estonian language. And I promise you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U14	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U15	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, A little more than a year ago, namely on 11 April last year, the draft of the Central Party Group, which provided for the amendment of the Constitution, was rejected in this very Chamber in order to go directly to the election of the President. I will remind you briefly of this draft. The Centre Party wished to grant the right to appoint a candidate for president to a political party or to at least 10000 citizens with a right to vote. I'd win that candidate who gets more votes. No increase in presidential power was foreseen by the Central Party Group's draft. It was that simple. By the way, the draft direct election of the President has already been discussed 11 times in Parliament. The last one was the draft submitted by the Centre Party, when this topic was in this Chamber for the 11th time. I also remind you of the initiative of Lennart Meri. When he resigned, he handed over the draft direct election of the President with the words: 'The departure of the Head of State from politics gives him a unique opportunity. The opportunity, as well as the obligation to speak impartially and also to take steps whose impartiality is beyond doubt. /... / You have in your hands in a moment a bill that gives the Estonian people the right, which is the majority of the democratic European peoples. ' That meant a direct presidential election procedure. The President's direct election has also been supported in his speeches by the former President of the Supreme Court, the former Minister of Justice of the Reform Party, Märt Rask, who has said: 'Only weak political parties with no public confidence are in favour of electing the Head of State in Parliament. " Quite a eloquent thought! Unfortunately, the Reform Party to which Märt Rask belonged does not support the presidential election directly. Toomas Hendrik Ilves has also supported the President's direct election, indeed, not in his current office. But as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Toomas Hendrik Ilves has said that the idea of directly electing the President has a complexion. Later, he's starting to push it back. For those who fear that the direct election of the President is something foreign to Europe, I assure you that this is not the case. The President shall be elected directly in Austria, Lithuania, Portugal, France, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland and the Czech Republic. Direct election of the President is a European political tradition that is characteristic of a large part of the countries of the European Union. The Centre Party firmly believes that the direct election of the President by the people meets the expectations of society and brings the people closer to the state, giving an additional opportunity to participate in important national decisions. It should not be feared that the president elected directly by the people without parliamentary mediation may have greater authority and maybe he will then be less willing to cooperate with Parliament, but his re-election will no longer depend on the will of the parliamentary groups. If the President of the Riigikogu, with the mandate of the people, exhorts more and better work and disciplines the legislator, or us, here, it is, of course, a good thing for the health of our country. Yesterday, under the leadership of the Centre Party, a reminder meeting took place in front of Kadriorg Castle, where we celebrated the year since the same draft was voted out of the procedure. Our proposal to the President of the Republic of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, is to use the time he has remained in office and the influence that the President has on reminding the government and political parties of the draft initiated by both the Central Party Group and President Lennart Meri. It is important that Parliament takes this seriously. And why can't Ilves do the same thing as President Meri and give a draft of the same content to the House on the last day of his term of office in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-05_U16	Thank you. There's no more calls. The free microphone round is over and today's agenda is exhausted. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.24 p.m.
