ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Good morning. We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries! There's no call. We're gonna do a presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U2	The first and only item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Dear colleagues, I ask for silence in the Chamber, we have already come to the draft procedure! Good waitress, I'm so sorry, just a minute! Good colleagues, there's noise in the hall, there's noise coming from every line.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! For those who have later reached the hall, we note that the attendance check has been carried out and we have a draft at first reading of 616, a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Act amending the Vocational Training Institution Act. If you come to the content of this bill, I will only highlight these differences...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U4	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, I'm very much asking for silence in the hall! There's a noise coming from every group and every line, so there's not enough. Please respect the waitress and those who want to listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U5	Thank you. The purpose of this draft is to bring back the issue of school food. We are talking about school food in primary school, upper secondary school and vocational school, including public schools. Since we have discussed school food and free school food a great deal in the last more than ten years, I would like to highlight the specific features that we need to emphasise in draft 616. In fact, a new coalition agreement was concluded in the Republic of Estonia a little while ago, which made a promise to seriously discuss whether school meals could be offered in upper secondary schools. As a result, our draft has been driven by a number of practical problems that we have already discussed briefly in the Committee on Culture and which are quite fitting to recall in this Chamber as well. First of all, our group still firmly believes that school food is an integral part of the education system. And since this has been the case for almost ten years, it is good to recall that municipal schools are aid granted to each municipality according to the number of children. In time, the subsidy was calculated as actually covering the costs. If we recall, it was just over eight Estonian kroons, which then exceeded the average cost of school food. So when we looked back to 2003 and asked the local authorities for feedback, it turned out that there were very few local authorities who had to pay more for school meals. Today, the amount of school food per student is 78 cents, which means that to a large extent the local government has to find additional funding opportunities and sometimes both the local government and the parent have to pay. Now that there is finally a plan to extend the offer of free school meals to upper secondary school level, students and local authorities have been talking about this for a very long time, two very important moments need to be highlighted. The first is how caterers and school food organisers (in some places there are caterers, in some parts the local government's own chefs) manage this 78 cents. In the upper secondary school classes, 1 to 3. Children's rations to class are much smaller. Then comes the early teenage age, about 4 to 6. to a class where children are very selective in relation to food. Then it's going to be seven and nine. Class 1, this awakening time, where people eat very well, especially young men, and school food suddenly gets very delicious. Why am I bringing these things out? This is the feedback from caterers, which the state is analysing quite constantly. After all, the Ministry of Social Affairs is looking at the vitamin content and quality of food. More and more efforts are being made to provide children with an appropriate daily supply. It is important to bear in mind that food needs are much higher in the older age group. At the moment, the situation has been resolved so that older children, especially young boys, are directed to eat during the last few hours of the day and then receive a larger portion at the expense of younger classes. The second point that matters is that if we bring school food to upper secondary school, 78 cents is no longer enough. There is a need for more food and, therefore, our proposal to increase school food support to one euro. It is also very important to consider that the number of state schools in Estonia is increasing. The system of financing public schools is different. Funding is provided with a single budget which gives the school internal freedom. The school receives one budget within which it makes its decisions. But our concern is that if municipal schools are able to get additional support from the local government, for example to hire a chef or something else, then state schools, if they do not separate out the part that is used for school meals, but they are all in one pot, then catering money must come at the expense of something. Therefore, a clear distinction in the budget and greater attention in public schools would be appropriate for ensuring school meals. In its opinion on this draft, the Government of the Republic pointed out that the word'support' cannot be used in public schools. In the Commission, we discussed that the purpose of the draft is understandable as such, and we will certainly come back to this subject after the first reading, either in the framework of our draft or in the framework of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. However, it is important to bear in mind that the part of school food in public schools should be taken into account separately. Otherwise, we must take this money from the budget at the expense of something else, and that is certainly not the aim of our initiative. In the case of vocational education and training institutions, we have also highlighted the need to increase food money to one euro, because there are also large young people who are certainly not enough for 78 cents. How has the situation now been resolved in the vocational education system, especially in the case of bachelors? Almost all vocational schools have an electronic system in place. As vocational schools have long internships, the money that students do not spend on school meals during the internship period can be used when they are back in school, so their average food rations are much higher than in normal upper secondary school. These are the things that we want to clarify with this draft. Our aim is to bring on the table the topics we have noticed and on which we have received feedback from schools and to give a substance for thinking when the Government of the Republic initiates its draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U6	Thank you, good waitress! You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U7	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I think that the Centre Party has a perfectly sensible proposal and it will certainly find support in this Chamber today, all the more so as, as you have said, the Government of the Republic is having an analogous draft. My question, however, is about the origin of this food. The bill doesn't say anything about it, but can't we start a discussion like this? As we know, the Defence Forces have already taken the first steps to conclude supply contracts with Estonian suppliers of raw materials, so that as much of the food offered as possible comes from local raw materials. This is also supported by the international movement Slow Food, or slow food versus fast food. The main postulates of this movement are that the healthiest and best is food, the raw material of which comes from a radius of about 200 kilometres from home. Do you think these ideas should be followed in any way when we talk about school food?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U8	Thank you. Yes, such initiatives have been discussed in a wide range of formats, up to the point where organic vegetables or organic products can play a role in school food. It is now reached that school food is under close scrutiny by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Local authorities have also implemented various systems. Usually there are such preferred menus and recommended menus. In practice, of course, it is true that smaller municipalities have indeed concluded contracts with surrounding farmers. It used to be such an evil opinion that it was not possible, but now these things have been set up, and that is why the cost of school food is sometimes very different. A local government with only one small school may not consider some things, such as the money for potatoes or carrots in the grant, and the cook is also on the local government's payroll. Then we only talk about the cost of this food, which, in addition to vegetables, is bought in by means of procurement. At the same time, there is a general agreement with the caterer, which makes the price much more expensive. So it's not that food is much cheaper, it's what's included. Should we start regulating it at the level of basic school and upper secondary school law? I think this is definitely not the place, because food quality assessments and monitoring are all in the hands of other agencies. This, of course, creates frustration in schools from time to time, because inspectors go from very different professions and often end up in one day for some reason. But this, as you know very well as a caterer, is actually all stuck in other levers. Can we discuss this at ministerial or Riigikogu level? Why not? It has been such a soft agreement so far, but no concrete steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U9	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U10	Thank you. You also pointed out that school food has been the object of sharp political debates for decades. We have even developed the concept of'school food', which just as it should be some special, different food than what ordinary people eat. In any case, it is clear that it is reasonable and necessary to provide food during a school day. It should be borne in mind, however, that the needs of young people are very, very different, to which you referred. My question is whether such a national, single-table hit will ever provide a sensible solution. Would it still not be more reasonable to move forward in such a way that schools are obliged to cater, to cover the costs for families themselves and to support only those who need it and, if necessary, twice or three times as much as so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U11	Thank you, good questioner! Well, that's a question of principle, isn't it? When we look at the very beginning of the 2000s, when school meals were first given to children, then only until the end of the fourth grade, there was a substantive debate about the extent to which and whose school meals should be paid for from public support and who and to what extent should pay as parents of his child. Life showed that there were at times about a third of students in school meals. Now that free school food has widened to everyone, I dare say from three or four schools that I have personally been exposed to, and all the time there is feedback from caterers that 80 to 82,87% of children eat on average. The greatest success that has been achieved here is firstly that we have made the average price of food considerably more reasonable. Secondly, there is a certain amount that needs to be provided; caterers themselves have learned a great deal. I see a lot of pros here. But the biggest plus I see personally is that school food has, in some ways, indeed become a part of an education system that is generally no longer in dispute. We looked at the Finnish system and learned from it. In fact, it is quite rare in Europe to eat warm food during the day. When you walk around, you will see that it is perfectly normal in European schools for everyone to take out their sandwich or cookie packets, whatever they put with them. It is important to eat culture and even to know about food, such as the habit of eating soup, that very many children only get from school. We actually provide much more than just school food, and I personally very, very much hope that it will remain part of our education system as such a uniform system. Whether it is financed through the Ministry of Education, through the social system or directly from the Ministry of Finance, these disputes are technical. But for school food to be guaranteed to everyone, it would be a part of a school day for everyone, but I am very, very supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U12	Thank you. Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I carefully read the draft explanatory memorandum, I carefully read all the minutes, but unfortunately I did not find any reference to similar experience in other European countries from these materials. Would you be so good as to name countries where such upper secondary school school allowance has already been implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U14	Thank you for a very good question. We have not really collected such information. I dare say that, in our ten-year experience, Finland is the only country in which we have gone to investigate these same procurements, the organisation of catering in school, including the supply of organic food. On the basis of Finnish experience, we have built up our system from the beginning. I do not know of anyone from Western European countries who would offer such a decent central catering. In France, they're mostly on a sandwich pack. Germany has so and so, some regions also offer hot food, but it is not a federal system, it is a decision made at county level. For others, I owe you an answer. As regards Eastern Europe and the developing countries with us, our example, also at local level, has been visited from Poland and Hungary. I have personally accepted a number of delegations from the Baltic countries who came here to get just the experience of how a harmonised system helps to improve quality and children become accustomed to going to school canteens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U15	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Of course, nutrition is very important, especially in the case of a child's growing body, in the morning, in the day, and in the evening. It is quite natural that it is the responsibility of the parent to create eating habits and to develop a diet culture. Unfortunately, the report gave the impression that daily diet should be taken care of by the whole country, by all taxpayers, or by the community, or the local government, that the parent's involvement, the ownership of it, does not exist. What has become of the opinion that a parent is not responsible for his child's lunch and does not participate in expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U17	Thank you, good questioner! There are certainly many parents who are responsible for breakfast, lunch and dinner in every sense. Parents are involved in organising school meals, menu analysis. They are involved through the board of trustees and there are also separate catering councils in a large number of schools who analyse the feedback received on the menu every week or every two weeks, collecting the views of students and parents. Nor should parents, especially in smaller regions, who themselves produce food products and who are authorised to offer them to the school be underestimated. There's a lot of cooperation like this. But if you mean financial participation, then here we need to remind ourselves again of the sad truth that we still have children living in very deep poverty. Statistics show that there are 46000 or slightly more or less. There has been feedback from schools, and people who are familiar with the matters of their region even know that there are children everywhere who come to school during the day and are likely to receive the only warm food for the day. Unfortunately, there are a lot of children like this. There are 40,000, 50,000 or 30,000 of them, we can debate statistics endlessly, but it is important to note that, with these measures, we guarantee proper food for children at least once a day. As far as parent responsibility is concerned, social workers work together with families and a number of other measures. When it comes to extra meals, a lot of schools offer breakfast porridge. Very many schools have so-called extra lunches, which are called afternoon in some schools, and in others they are extra food. If you are now directly answered, I do not know what feedback you have received from your locality, then for an extra lunch, the parent will have to pay from his wallet and about a third of the parents will be prepared to do so. Whether the other two thirds consider it unnecessary for children or not financially possible for them, it is up to the local community to decide. But I'm guessing there's a lot of people in this two-thirds that can't afford it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U18	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U19	Thank you. Dear waitress, If we extend the circle of people to whom we at least partially pay for school meals, we will also have the opportunity to regulate the quality of food, as you yourself have rightly said. In quite a number of schools there are open buffets or other outlets where all kinds of trash, chips, chips, etc. are sold. It is very often where children buy some unhealthy and not very nutritious food instead of taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the state with the municipalities. Wouldn't it make sense to regulate it harshly so that schools shouldn't have such a buffet or whatever? I think that's one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U20	Thank you, good questioner! We had a long, two or three years debate on how much we trust the local community and the local government and how much the state should regulate. At this point, I would say that, according to my deepest understanding, education is still one of the things that parents and the local community should decide most about. Is there anything more decisive than the fact that parents come together and say that this is the thing that cannot be in the buffet, I doubt that. Well, maybe there's been some coincidence when the director says he doesn't care about that opinion, but I don't usually know that. I have indeed received such feedback that the opening times of the buffet have been regulated, that the buffet is open, for example, only after meals have ended. Parents also watch quite carefully what is sold there. But in that sense, you're right that if you go there, you can still see hamburgers, pizzas, any cupcakes that can last forever, packed in six-fold plastic, and we wouldn't want to see them there. You're the vice-chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I assume this could be your commission's ampoua. The Committee on Culture will certainly not discuss those regulations and scopes that fall under the Ministry of Social Affairs. This whole healthy side of food runs into two other ministries and one of them is the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the Committee on Culture, we will certainly be happy to discuss these things, but probably we are not best placed to regulate how many e-marks can be on the goods and what clock is the buffet open. I don't see why I'm denying the buffet myself. The school has its own rules of procedure, and if it wants to offer carrots, fruit, or any extra drinks in the buffet at night, why not? But, for example, energy drinks, coca cola, this is a very sensitive subject for parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U21	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I share your view that the state should not regulate what is junk food and what is not junk food. I love Lay's chips and Coke, and I hope Margus Tsahkna can never stop selling them to me. But now to the question. I have also studied the experiences of various countries in the field of catering for students. I have not studied it very closely, but I have found only two countries in Europe where this experience exists, Finland and Sweden. How effective are you to use taxpayers' money to support school food for upper secondary school students? Perhaps a more effective way of using taxpayers' money would be a need-based approach and the rest of the money could go, for example, to raise teachers' low wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U23	Thank you. I support all kinds of grants. Why? Take, for example, the debate we have had on child benefits and look at the possibilities for the state to recover money from those target groups that we say are not 'need-based'. This option is graduated income tax. Give everyone a very high child benefit and simply recover the higher taxes on the higher income. It's a system that's used in Scandinavia. It's very efficient, cheap and easy. No one needs to start running around with papers, no one has to prove how poor or rich he is. The regulation of such a system of outright subsidies is very simple. As far as school food is concerned, I dare say that we can look back on our ten-year experience. What's happened in ten years? School food has improved significantly and is available to everyone. School canteens are nice, clean, they're no longer places to go. They'd be happy to invite visitors. School food has become a normal part of school day. If we also look at the opinions of the students themselves, we look at the visits of our association of student representations four to five years ago or the '101 children to Toompea' Youth Forum, they often go through the same school food theme and the idea of bringing free school food to upper secondary school. A child's growing organism needs to eat. Offering food once a day is not too much for the country, and it will certainly provide additional support for those families and children who need it. As far as necessity is concerned, social scientists have proved very clearly to us, at least some of us who want to believe it, that we have far more hidden poverty than we want to admit. There are children who, according to statistics, may not be among the need-based beneficiaries, but whose food is actually saved much more than we acknowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U24	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U25	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question extends a little bit to Mr Ansip's point of view, not only on necessity but also on differentiation. Namely, a few years ago, Jamie Oliver, who we all know about Estonian Television, entered the PM's office in 10 Downing Street, London, and started reforming school food. Big TV shows were made, he went to school and taught school chefs how to make healthy food. Now, recently, I saw a BBC news section that looked at the same schools he was going to do that reform. Everyone's gone back the old way because the kids demanded this junk food, they just liked it better. But my question is whether there is any way to differentiate this subject so that this support or partial support goes to foods that are healthier. It is known that the cheapest thing to produce is those most harmful things with a lot of sugar in them, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U26	As far as differentiation is concerned, the easiest way is already in place in very many schools. It's an electronic card reading system that shows very precisely who goes and who doesn't eat and how many people go. It allows caterers to regulate their portions and set prices on the weekly menu. How does this really happen? I believe that quite a number of people in this Chamber already know that the weekly menu, sometimes the two-week menu, will be adjusted so that some foods are clearly more expensive, some foods are cheaper, and then it will be harmonised by day, sometimes five days, sometimes ten days. In addition, sports days, tours days, summers are many days that do not go into 175 school days. There is quite a lot of such regulation. As for junk food, two weeks ago we had a long discussion at a school about what kind of macaroni to offer to children. Kids are used to white, most common macaroni. If there's a regular white macaroni, the baby will be happy to eat because he's used to it. The annual attempt to offer whole-grain macaroni, especially the whole-grain macaroni produced in Estonia, which parents preferred, showed that about half of them remained. Parents then discussed whether they should go back to white macaroni that children eat, or whether they should continue to raise their children for another year and train them to eat whole-grain macaroni, to teach them to understand that in the end they are better for them. I have to say, it was a very emotional argument. What do I want to say with this example? In fact, we are also being tested, not now in Jamie Oliver style, but there is still much more awareness in society. Fortunately, there are also caterers in many schools who have a firm view of what school food could be like. At least in the few schools I know personally, the owners of the restaurant or other catering establishments are in the respective council and are closely monitoring the situation. It turns out that for about ten days, some food comes on the menu, forced by parents, who think it's healthy, and which children tend to stop. One major dispute, which is certainly known about this subject, is over the fish. For children of certain ages, there is a fish, unless it is such a dinosaur-shaped food without the taste of the fish. There is another argument, one way the fish would be as necessary and we should raise children, the other way around there is a very high percentage of food, even in the older age group. What can we do here? It is probably necessary to be consistent and not to give in, but certain compromises are necessary. Real junk food will no longer allow us to pass, such as french fries. It's confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs that certain types of frying can't be offered. So, actually, over these years, we've been very, very strict with the caterers what they're allowed to do. Sugar is also a subject. For example, when we talk about the taste of tea, there are cultural differences and traditions. I must say that there are schools where there is no way to drink tea, because the sugar content in it is very, very high. But usually the Ministry of Social Affairs monitors these things quite a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is interesting to listen to this discussion because coalition partners do not believe what they have signed, they doubt whether it is right that they have promised the people. It happens sometimes! I'm asking you, Mailis, wouldn't it be a big mistake if we started to differentiate the lunch allowance from one euro more? We'll start a caste system at school, you're from a rich family, you're from a poor family, you're going to ask for support. I don't think this is the place to pursue this necessity. This is too small a amount to start looking for a need-based basis. Kids and parents don't even go asking, it's insulting for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U29	Thank you. I may have answered too round. When we look back on this ten-year period, the effect of this harmonised food was, firstly, that school food was not intended to be offered to a certain class or place, school catering as such became a daily thing for everyone. Of course, there are children who like this food and those who don't like it, but generally the school cafeteria is not the kind of place they're ashamed to go to. It must certainly be said that if school food is not publicly supported and guaranteed uniformly, about one third of children will eat. This is a fact, in the 1990s there were about a third of these children, and today there are also about a third of them in the upper secondary school. The reasons why the other two thirds don't eat, I've already told you. Some prefer a side shop where they can get their bread and soda or a carton of chips. Despite the preferences of the former Prime Minister, I hope that as parents, we will make sure that the child's only food a day is not a coke and a chip pack. On the other hand, as I have already mentioned, there is hidden poverty. In families where on the outside everything is very good, loans and leases take a large part of the family's income, and food saves a great deal. Children may even go to groups of interests, but as pediatricians' feedback on the health of our children, growing young people, shows, we have room for improvement in terms of full food.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U30	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U31	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have a bit of a question with school food. As a parent, do you think there should be some way to regulate children's menus for catering places in Estonia? They create some standard of what this food tastes like. School food is very different from what you eat on your birthdays and when you go out with your family, where only three junk food are available. Maybe before this cultural change comes, that we eat healthy everywhere, somehow start regulating this child menu thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U32	Thank you, good questioner! In today's Estonia, I really can't imagine telling the caterer how he has to build his own menu. It is clear that he is the market leader. I must say that despite a rather poor or very poor children's menu, it is still possible for a parent to regulate it at times. Personally, I can tell you that almost all the caterers will meet you if you take the food from the normal menu and ask me to split it in half. As a parent, I ask you not to show children's menus, because there are usually wieners and fries, sometimes meatballs. There's not much else to offer, some places maybe there's still a pizza slice. What the average catering company offers to children is really quite awful. However, I do not see any measures at the moment how we can regulate it centrally. It's a matter of parent awareness and all that. In designing taste preferences, the only thing we can do for ourselves is not give in to pressure or provide junk food at school. No more french fries and wiener portions in schools, except maybe in a buffet.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U33	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U34	Thank you. A very educational debate on quality. Maybe I missed my ears, but I'd like to know how much this idea costs. You have worked so hard on this project that you probably also have a concrete calculation of what this price is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U35	Are you thinking about the impact on the state budget? The amounts of the state budget are set out in 1. to class, upper secondary school and vocational training. In order not to abuse your time, I would say that extending the allowance to upper secondary school and increasing the allowance to one euro for school lunch will cost a total of EUR 8.9 million. In order for you to be able to analyse precisely, I suggest that you look at page 3 of the draft explanatory memorandum, which sets out the financial ratios when it comes to extending the grant to upper secondary school only, and if it is increased to EUR 1. Additional costs, e.g. 1.1 to 9. In the case of class 1, if the aid is increased from 0.78 cents to one euro, only EUR 4,3 million. Looking at the possibilities of our state budget, this is certainly not too much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U36	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U37	Thank you. I have already received half of the answer, but one technical additional question: do you agree with Mr Tamm's opinion that this is a trivial number?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U38	Thank you. Of course, it depends on what we consider to be nothing. It's a patronizing word. Maybe I wouldn't use that. But if you look at the proportions of our state budget and the measures to combat direct child poverty, then surely 8 or 9 million euros will not be a surplus to the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U39	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U40	Thank you. I didn't say in this hall that there's a small amount of money, you can check the verbatim. I questioned whether this should be differentiated, because one euro in itself is such a small amount. But for me, it's still interesting that the coalition agreement has dealt with things, but doesn't know what the deal is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U41	Thank you, good questioner! I wasn't involved in forming this coalition, I really don't know how it was formed. But generally, when coalitions are formed, there are financialists like Jürgen Ligi who say how much it costs and what can be done when. So I'm assuming he was also in the coalition formation this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U42	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U43	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! This legislative initiative was on the agenda of the Committee on Culture on 6 May. The Commission, as the author of the draft, heard Mailis Reps, who presented the draft and justified its necessity with the same arguments and in the same way we have just heard from the chair. Next, the Commission heard Piret Sapi, adviser to the Ministry of Education and Research, who explained the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft, highlighting the facts that were also discussed in the report by Mailis Reps. The weaknesses of the draft act are first of all that public schools, unlike municipal schools, cannot talk about granting aid. Since public schools are run by the state, it is not reasonable to claim that the state supports itself. Secondly, the question was that, according to the draft, the legislator sets a minimum allowance for school lunch, which is one euro, and according to the same draft, the law would give the Government of the Republic the power to determine the amount of allowance for school lunch. These two provisions are somewhat in conflict with each other and with the practice so far that, in the case of all kinds of grants relating to the education system, such as student home allowance, support for the Director, head of study and teachers' labour costs, grant for teaching literature, etc., the law unambiguously empowers the government to determine them without limitation or any minimum limits. There is also a more narrow legal and technical question in relation to § 2 of the draft, which amends the VET Act. In particular, the VET Act treats school lunch as support for a student, but in general education schools it has so far been viewed as support for a schoolkeeper. Thus, their analogous treatment is not entirely appropriate. These are the arguments why the Government of the Republic did not fully support this initiative. However, as has already been said in this speech chair, in the agenda of the Estonian Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party coalition, a similar goal is achieved, namely the payment of school lunch support to upper secondary school students in addition to primary school students. In the ensuing debate, the Commission took the view that, despite the weaknesses just discussed, the draft could still remain in Riigikogu proceedings. It was decided to propose that the first reading be closed and the draft be left in the process, but at the same time wait for the draft Government of the Republic, take the following procedural steps after comparing these two drafts and then decide how to proceed. All these decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. The Commission decided to propose to the Bureau that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 15 May, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, as usual. Just in case, we asked the representative of the government when the government bill could be received, and we received the answer that it would certainly come this spring and that the date of entry into force would be the same as that in the draft, i.e. 1 January next year. So we can deal with this issue very calmly, fully aware that we have time for this and that the law can be enforced from next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U44	Thank you! You have at least one question. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! In the Commission, there was a desire that when the Government of the Republic was preparing its draft, it would pay particular attention to the state secondary schools that were to be born. Did you also get the impression that the topic of organising catering in state secondary schools is being examined separately by the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U46	This is elementary for this issue, as both your draft and the Government of the Republic's Action Plan have the same objective of applying the school lunch allowance to upper secondary schools, and upper secondary schools are both in municipal schools and in state secondary schools that are established and already operating on several occasions. Undoubtedly, this includes all schools with upper secondary school grades.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U47	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? It's what you want. I open negotiations and ask Liisa-Ly Pakosta, representative of the Parliament's speech chair, Isamaa and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, As a historian, I have to admit that there is now about the same festive mood in this Chamber as it may have been in the early years of Parliament when it was discussed what can be done to promote education and quite quickly to promote, the newborns in the Republic of Estonia. I am actually very pleased that on this very important issue, this hall seems to agree. The Isamaa and Res Publica Association also basically supports the objective of enabling children to study at school, regardless of the size of their family wallets. We hope that this support for learning will not only be limited to food, but we will also reach out to teaching tools, workbooks and other needs, which still have a lot of problems. There are a number of things we would like to draw attention to. First of all, we want to recognise all local authorities who currently offer free school meals at upper secondary school level, which is a very big deal for families. For colleagues who do not have upper secondary school children, I can give an example of my family. I have a kid in high school and his May food money in municipal school is 45 euros and 78 cents. After school, the baby comes home hungry as a wolf. So if we are talking here that family responsibility is somehow falling, yes, no doubt, which concerns it 45 euros and 78 cents per month, but in the morning, afternoon and evening, young people of this age still want to eat too. I am pleased that the discussions on whether this is a social issue or an educational issue have been slowed down, and the focus in this House is also clearly on how high-quality this food is and how much we can provide food from close to home and school. These are very important things, especially when we consider that experts estimate that almost half of today's health problems are linked to the wrong diet to a lesser or greater extent. I also recognise that various problems have been identified in the provision of free school meals. When he was in high school, it often happened that the first boys with long legs arrived at school during lunch break with our 38 students. There were four pots of booze on the table, the first four young men who arrived picked up these pots and ate empty, and the rest of the classmates had to see how to cope. But how do you resent a man when he's hungry? I met the gymnasts yesterday who spoke exactly the same thing. So nothing has changed. The young person's stomach is simply so hungry that the first to arrive at school night school eat this diner, figuratively speaking, empty, and the rest, although they have paid, must see how to cope. So there really are a number of completely substantive issues here that need to be resolved, and I believe that local authorities and schools can do better with the additional support of the state. However, we certainly want to emphasise that there are indeed many other important issues that still need to be looked at alongside the provision of high school food. There have been reports from Estonian nutrition scientists that about 30% of children's health problems arise from a poor diet even before they go to school. It is therefore particularly important to pay attention to catering in kindergartens. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U49	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U50	Thank you. Local authorities approach the issue differently and there are municipalities where even children from poor families do not get a full exemption from food money in kindergarten. Another thing we really want to draw attention to is health surveillance, both before and during school, and its effectiveness. Thirdly, by going to a healthier school, it is worth thinking about daily physical education classes or the provision of community education support. Fourthly, which is no less important when we are talking about catering for current schoolchildren, we certainly do not want them to eat their debts and have to pay back their debts themselves. This is an extremely important issue that needs to be addressed in this Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U51	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 616 amendments. May 29th, 5.15 p.m. A microphone for Karel Rüütel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U52	Thank you. I actually wanted to participate in the negotiations, but I think the signal was for the last second.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-05-15_U53	It was, yeah, a second after the negotiations ended. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I basically don't have a chance to turn things back. I'm so sorry, but let's try to be faster in the future. There are no protests. The first reading of the draft is closed and the item on the agenda is addressed. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.56 a.m.
