ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Respectables, may I have your attention, please? Due to the suspension of the powers of Riigikogu members Andres Anvelt, Helmen Küti, Sven Mikser, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Urve Palo due to their appointment as members of the Government of the Republic, the following alternate members became members of the Riigikogu: Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård, Katrin Saks, Kairit Pihlak, Etti Kagarov and Tiit Tammsaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U2	We must first listen to the oaths of office of the new members of the Riigikogu. Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U3	Barbi-Jenny Pilvre-Storgård, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U4	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U5	I also have to inform you that in connection with the release of Jaak Aaviksoo, Andrus Ansip, Siim Valmar Kiisler, Juhan Parts, Urmas Reinsalu, Helir-Valdor Seeder and Ken-Marti Vaher from the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic and the restoration of their powers as a member of the Riigikogu. March 27, the powers of Ülo Tulik, Andre Sepa, Kaja Kreisman, Juku-Kalle Raidi, Mart Nuti, Andres Jalaku and Siim Kabrits of the members of the Riigikogu also ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U6	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U7	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U8	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission' to replace Mr Andres Anvelt with Mr Rein Randver, Mr Jaak Allik instead of Mr Helmen Küt, and Mr Kalvi Tõul and Mr Jaak Allik as alternate member of the committee Kalev Kotkas, in place of Mr Rein Randver.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U9	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs shall initiate a draft on compensation for damage caused by an offence. In current law, compensation for damage caused by an offence is governed by the State law on compensation for damage caused to a person by taking undue liberty. This concerns only the consequences of the damage caused by deprivation of liberty. In other respects, compensation for damage caused by an offence is currently not regulated. The Supreme Court has made a number of important decisions on this matter and has noted these shortcomings in the regulation of compensation for damage caused to a person in the course of an offence proceedings, which is why the current situation is in conflict with the Constitution. The new law on compensation for damage caused by an offence as one of the types of State liability excludes the current State Liability Act and provides for a comprehensive procedure for compensation for damage caused by an offence. I'm honored to hand over this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U11	I have adopted two draft laws on behalf of the management board, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. There's a message. On Friday of next week, 4 April, the final event of the simulation of the Riigikogu will take place in the Chamber. I therefore ask you to bring important materials from your desks and drawers. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 83 MPs registered, no 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U12	The first item on our agenda today is the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Priit Toobal and to the drafting of an indictment against him. I would like to introduce to you the procedure for processing this item. First there is a report by the Chancellor of Justice, then any member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur an oral question. Pursuant to § 151 (4) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups and other members of the Riigikogu, with the exception of Priit Toobal, may speak in the negotiations. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Before that, there will be a presence check. According to § 151 (4) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, Priit Toobal cannot vote for himself. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the proposal. The decision of the Riigikogu is formalised as a decision of the Riigikogu. Please, Chancellor of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U13	Honourable Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, § 1 (3) of the Chancellor of Justice Act and § 379 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I propose to the Riigikogu to give its consent to remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Priit Toobal and to prepare an indictment against him in relation to the facts described in the application of the Prosecutor General attached to my written proposal. I have already explained the nature of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu and the role of the Chancellor of Justice in the immunity procedure. That's why I'm not gonna stop at it any longer. I've seen all the criminal records. I did not find that the grounds referred to in § 378 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure ('politically biased or otherwise manifestly unfounded') existed in order to return the request of the State Attorney General. I stress that in fulfilling the obligations imposed on the Chancellor of Justice by law when making a proposal to the Riigikogu, it is not for the Chancellor of Justice to assess whether the evidence is admissible or whether it is sufficient to justify the doubts raised. The Chancellor of Justice does not take a position on the existence of suspected guilt or on it in the circumstances described above on the issue of the drafting of an indictment. Neither does the Riigikogu decide on the issue of guilt. According to § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no one must be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U14	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor, there are also questions for you. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U15	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! In autumn 2012, the State Attorney General approached you with a request to propose to the Riigikogu to remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Priit Toobal. At the time, you considered that such a situation was contrary to the Constitution. How do you comment that your position on immunity has changed since two years ago? I would point out that nothing has changed in Estonia's legislation in this regard in the meantime. The Supreme Court's decision on the integrity of the ambassador also did not deprive you of the opportunity to decide in the same way as before. What's with the change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U16	Thank you! I have the same opinion and returned the request to the State Attorney General. On the basis of § 15 of the Constitution, I found that the search was contrary to the Constitution, but since the court thought otherwise, I also have to comply with the law. It's the only thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U17	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! Since the current proposal has been made on the basis of searches by the prosecutor's office, please specify who, and on what basis, assessed the basis of the search of a member of the Riigikogu belonging to the opposition party? Is it really just the executive, or prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U19	Yes, in this case the Supreme Court decided that, for the above reasons, the first sentence of § 76 of the Constitution does not give rise to an obligation for the legislator to provide for special arrangements. As I have said before, an ex-ante verification of an impartial decision-maker is necessary for searches in all places related to a member of the Riigikogu, and it should also be based on the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U20	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The European Court of Human Rights has stated that the lack of judicial review in the granting of permissions to search carries a tendency to abuse search possibilities. It is further specified that neither the judge nor the prosecutor's office performing the prosecution function is an independent authority. How do you comment on the position of the European Court of Human Rights and the current Code of Criminal Procedure, where the prosecutor's office has been given the opportunity to conduct searches without the consent of an independent party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U22	This is a slightly different situation. As I have already emphasised, in this case, the Court ruled that way. I'm following this decision. There's nothing I can do. Although I am, as I have already said, of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U23	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U24	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! I will once again touch the search permits issued by the prosecutor's office. How do you assess a situation where only six days after the law came into force, which gave the prosecutor's office the opportunity to issue a search permit, the Office of the Central Party in opposition was searched? Can't it be the impression that the DA's office was waiting for that time because he didn't get that kind of permission from the court?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U25	Thank you! The Code of Criminal Procedure says I'm not a subject in that sense. The Chancellor of Justice decides in accordance with chapter 14. Usually the subjects are the prosecutor, the court and the lawyer. And right now, I'm wondering how I'd send the application back. According to § 378 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this is two arguments: firstly, that the prosecution is politically biased, it is a rather broad formulation Actually, I don't duplicate criminal proceedings. If the prosecution were manifestly unfounded, I would send the request back. That was not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U26	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! As you know, this search was preceded by one of the reasons we were looking for, as if someone had bribed someone for 500 euros. It wasn't until after that that a search took place. Can it happen in the future that some cause will be fabriated and then the next steps will be taken? To date, this issue of EUR 500 bribes has been taken off the agenda. How can it happen that one starts and ends up with another thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U28	We'll see. Well, I guess I'll analyze it too. This is a fairly wide area of justice, and the Chancellor of Justice has a great deal of discretion under the current chapter 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U29	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'm in a bit of trouble, and I'm pretty sure there's a few other members of the Riigikogu in the same way. On your proposal, the Riigikogu initiated a draft in order to define the concept of immunity, which is not included in the current law. I would like you, as Chancellor of Justice, to assess the situation that has arisen where the concept of immunity is not furnished by the current laws, but the Supreme Court and the legislative power differ. I mean that we in this Parliament have expressed our support by voting on your position, but the Supreme Court did not share your position. How should those members of the Riigikogu who do not bear political hatred behave in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U31	Thank you! The Supreme Court decided that § 76 of the Constitution is very broad in substance, and so is the current procedure for defending a Member. This is simply a procedural obstacle created to protect members of the Riigikogu, especially those who are members of the opposition, from abusive methods of executive power. In order to carry out certain activities, a specific procedure needs to be carried out before it can be carried out. For example, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Riigikogu pursuant to § 76 of the Constitution to take a member of the Riigikogu into criminal liability. The point of the integrity of the ambassador is that after removing the procedural obstacle, for example after giving consent, it is possible to check whether there are any doubts, the circumstances that indicate that the executive power has been abused. That is, in certain cases, a very broad question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U32	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U33	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! My question is rather personal. You've read all the material in this criminal proceedings. You may also know how many surveillance operations were carried out during this procedure. While the 500 euro story split up, I had a free relationship with both Jüri Luige and Priit Toobal. They were likely eavesdropped to gather the material. So far, I have not received a single message that my phone has been tapped as part of a surveillance operation. I wonder how I can get protection to see if all the procedural procedures in the criminal case have been carried out correctly. I've also asked the defense police directly, but I haven't gotten an answer. Where should a citizen seek protection in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U34	First of all, yes, I've read the criminal record. About other things, we'll live and see how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U35	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Chancellor of Justice, I ask for your assessment. I'm also interested in the problems in the neighborhood. This whole story, which we are now discussing, began in the summer of 2011, when Jüri Luik tried to push several middle parties into illegal activities. Later it became clear that he did so on a security police mission, worked as a provocator. He didn't succeed. Do you consider it normal to have the idea, through your agent, of encouraging members of the Riigikogu to break the law and thus trap them in the strength structure of the state? Is such conduct appropriate to the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U37	In such a case, there are two things: the prosecution is either politically biased or otherwise manifestly unfounded. If there were such specific facts, I would send the request back. In this case, however, this was not the case. I'm not a prosecutor, and I'm not a judge. The judge will decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U38	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Is there any evidence that you have in your possession that, apart from searching the office of one opposition party, the evidence has been collected by eavesdropping or observing or discreet surveillance in the premises? And when it's done, how big has this surveillance been? Has it been done for days, hours, or longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U40	Yeah, I've read about it, too, and I appreciated it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U41	Good fellows, please be quiet. There's a noise in the hall. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U42	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! I want to ask you about the bill. Does the current law require anyone to consent, for example, to the issuance of correspondence from the Riigikogu server to a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U43	I am of the opinion that this is not constitutional. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U44	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. Dear colleagues, would you like to negotiate? It is not advisable to negotiate, so we can go to the final vote. Good fellows, before the final vote, we'll do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Who's in favour of the proposal? Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 56) and 16 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U45	Let's get to the second item on the agenda. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, Lauri Laas, and to the drafting of an indictment against him must be discussed. The rapporteur is Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. Let me also briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, there is the Chancellor of Justice's report, which lasts up to 15 minutes. The members of the Riigikogu can then ask questions, anyone can ask an oral question. After that, negotiations will take place. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to the vote. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U46	Honourable Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, § 1 (3) of the Chancellor of Justice Act and § 379 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I propose that the Riigikogu give its consent to remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Lauri Laas and to prepare an indictment against him in relation to the facts described in the application of the Supreme Prosecutor General attached to the proposal. In accordance with § 378 (5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I have read all the files in the criminal file. I did not find that the grounds referred to in § 378 (6) of the criminal procedure ('politically biased or otherwise manifestly unfounded') existed in order to return the request of the State Attorney General. I would like to stress once again that, in fulfilling the obligations imposed on the Chancellor of Justice by law when making a proposal to the Riigikogu, it is not the capacity of the Chancellor of Justice to assess whether the evidence is admissible or whether it is sufficient to justify the suspicion presented. The Chancellor of Justice does not have the authority to give a view on the existence of suspected guilt or its proof. When consenting to Lauri Laas, a member of the Riigikogu, in the circumstances mentioned above, to prepare an indictment, the Riigikogu does not decide on the issue of guilt. According to § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no one must be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U47	Your Honor, Chancellor, there are also questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Chancellor of Justice! Under the Chancellor of Justice's law, the Chancellor of Justice has a duty to check whether the grounds for disenfranchisement are politically biased. At the same time, in your proposal, you say that according to § 378 (5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Chancellor of Justice will, if necessary, examine the material of the criminal file, but will not check or assess the evidence collected. That's my question. How can you decide whether or not there is a political basis for withdrawing immunity without assessing the evidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U49	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U50	Yes, I also said that I did not find that the grounds referred to in § 378 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure exist: the application is politically biased or, for other reasons, manifestly unfounded. Such a basis should be obvious, but I didn't identify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U51	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! I will ask the previous question once again in another wording, because you did not answer that question. When preparing your proposal, you were unable to assess the full course of criminal proceedings, i.e. the start of the case, the reasons for it and the motives for it, as this part of the procedure has been closed. It is now clear that this was all so-called fishing, or provocation. This, however, creates a situation where the criminal case begins for politically motivated reasons. How, then, do you comment on a situation where you were unable to assess the whole course of the matter, especially the reasons for initiating the procedure and the motivation? And do you agree that this is absolutely crucial in criminal matters and also in future proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U52	Thank you! I've already explained that I'm of a different opinion. As I wrote to the Attorney General when he returned his application, this was Article 15, I found that the search was contrary to § 76 of the Constitution. But the Supreme Court decided it was legal, and I too have to comply with the law. And I checked it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U53	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! In the present case, the prosecutor's office has received e-mails from the Riigikogu server Lauri Laas and Priit Toobal. On whose assignment and order did this correspondence be issued, and do you consider it to be a legitimate activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U55	In this case, I also considered whether this is clearly an unjustified step or not. But I'm not a judge. As I have already emphasised, according to § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no one must be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has entered into force. That's what I appreciate, that's a wider question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U56	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Some time ago, Priit Toobal and Lauri Laas approached the prosecutor's office with a statement that the criminal proceedings against them would be brought to an end on the basis of the principle of opportunity. The ambassadors pointed out a similar incident in recent history and asked for equal treatment. The statement by Priit Toobali and Lauri Laas was rejected on the ground that they were members of politicians and the Riigikogu. In your opinion as Chancellor of Justice, in these two cases, did the prosecutor's office treat people equally, i.e. on an equal footing? Can a post really be the basis for different justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U58	Yeah, in this case, I didn't identify two very broad things.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U59	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Searching is a procedural act which is particularly intensively impinging on a person's rights. We don't like to be socked in security. But once the drawers are turned inside out at home, it's really offensive. According to European practice, a search is possible as a last resort and an independent agency, usually for court-founded reasons. In your opinion, is the prosecutor's office, not a court, but a prosecutor's office, an independent authority that can authorise the search of the opposition politician, the home of the opposition member of the Riigikogu and the office of the opposition party?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U61	Yes, as I found in my application, i.e. on 8 October 2012, any search is a very intensive act and violates § 76 of the Constitution. But the court said it differently. I have nothing to do if the court disagrees. You always have to follow judgment. There's nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U62	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U63	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! I come to the question of the regularity of the case. My fellow Members said that you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that you cannot confirm that all the proceedings in this case have been carried out correctly, because not all the procedures have been checked. My question has something to do with this. Do you continue to think so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U64	I read all the criminal records, everyone! And I appreciated it too. However, the final decision will be decided by the court. And I'll consider whether or not I'm sending the application back to the DA. But the court decides, it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U65	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U66	Thank you. As Chancellor of Justice, how do you assess a situation where Priit Toobal and Lauri Laas have been around the case for a long time, several months, with a big media racket? There are various opinions here and there, either to take away the integrity of the ambassador or not. It also affects the politician's reputation. Are law enforcement authorities also discussing that such a delay is detrimental to a person's reputation? Some actions have also been on the verge of legality. Why all the fuss? How do you feel about the fact that a relatively insignificant matter, which is not very serious in the eyes of society, is caused by such a noise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U67	The easiest thing to do is search. That's the problem. But right now, it's basically legal. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U68	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I come back to my question because you didn't answer me. In addition to searching the office of one opposition party, does the material show that there was surveillance, eavesdropping or something similar? Can you see it from your materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U70	Yeah, like I said, I've read it completely. That's what I decided. I've considered it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U71	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Searching the home of a member of the Riigikogu without the permission of the court is now known to be legitimate. But this search was preceded by an accusation based on false claims. Will the practice of the Estonian state continue to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U73	It also depends very much on Parliament's decisions, on the criminal procedure. As they say, this is a matter of discretion, and it all depends on whether it is wider or narrower. It's really wide right now. How the Chancellor of Justice will decide in the future is a matter of discretion, your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U74	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I come to § 76 of the Constitution, i.e. the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, which you have also talked about quite a bit. Norm is basically absolute, without any clauses, and immunity from its purpose is also a constitutional safeguard when it comes to, for example, opposition or other 'less comfortable' politicians. This also applies to unjustified interference by the executive. However, when we analyse the new decision of the Supreme Court, I get the impression that the integrity of the ambassador has been transformed into a completely empty concept by this decision. The integrity of the ambassador is no longer content due to the decision of the Supreme Court. The ambassador can be searched, eavesdropped, tracked, detained, etc. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U76	Yes, according to § 76 of the Constitution, which I quoted, immunity does not extend. At the same time, the Supreme Court has decided and clearly stated in paragraph 22 that the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu is not limited to the fact that he can be held liable for criminal offences on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and with the consent of the majority of the Riigikogu. Otherwise, the first sentence of § 76 of the Constitution would become empty. It says that immunity is very wide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U77	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You read a number of paragraphs and paragraphs of the law here. Today you presented separate proposals to remove the immunity of three members of the Riigikogu. Some time ago, you looked at things differently, and you thought it was wrong to take away the integrity of all three ambassadors. If you don't get too serious, you feel like you're taking it off the three, you don't take it off the three. Their actions are of different weight. Did you just go a certain distance in assessing these laws and then decide that, uh, we're gonna take away everyone's immunity or not take away everyone's immunity? If you put forward three separate proposals, you might think that the man has been working and looking into it. Now you want to take the integrity of the ambassador away from everyone. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U79	I'll explain it again. I was of the opinion that this conduct was a direct violation of the Constitution and that I also sent an application to the Supreme Court, but the court thought otherwise. And I have to follow that decision, that's the problem. I have an opinion, too, but there's nothing to do. It's just like the law that it's supposed to be followed, liked or disliked. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U80	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U81	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! Here's the question. Do you think the current Estonian legal space will allow law enforcement authorities to fish so-called evidence? This is a phenomenon known as evidence fishing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U82	It may not be the same thing, but I'm not gonna rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U83	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. So we can go to the final vote. Since this vote requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. I will put the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to the final vote. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 54), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 17 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U84	Let's move on to the third item. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal to give his consent to the removal of the immunity from the Riigikogu member, Urbo Vaarmann, and to the continuation of legal proceedings on him must be discussed. The rapporteur is Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. Let me also briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, there is the Chancellor of Justice's report, which lasts up to 15 minutes. The members of the Riigikogu will then be able to ask questions, and any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question. After that, negotiations will take place. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U85	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, § 1 (3) of the Chancellor of Justice Act and § 379 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I propose that the Riigikogu give its consent to remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu from Urbo Vaarmann and to continue legal proceedings against him in relation to the facts described in the application of the Supreme Prosecutor General attached to the proposal. The request of the State Attorney General submitted to the Chancellor of Justice on 20 February 2014 shows that Urbo Vaarmann was the subject of an indictment already on 7 February 2013, so before he became a member of the Riigikogu. By order of 26 June 2013, the Tartu County Court brought Urbo Vaarmann to court because the court found that there were sufficient grounds for discussing the case at the hearing under the general procedure. As a result, in the case of Urbo Vaarmann, there can be no discussion of the prosecution and the submission of a proposal to the Riigikogu to prepare an indictment, but of the continuation of criminal proceedings. I did not find that the grounds referred to in § 378 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure ('politically biased or otherwise manifestly unfounded') were made to return the request of the state's attorney general and to refuse to propose to the Riigikogu to withdraw the immunity from Urbo Vaarmann. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U86	Your Honor, Chancellor, there are questions for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U87	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! In your proposal, we can read that the Police and Border Guard Board opened criminal proceedings on 30 January 2012 against Mr Vaarmanni, our colleague. It's been 25 to 26 months. Since I've had to go to court myself, I have another question for you. What have you done to ensure that the proceedings in criminal matters, the proceedings before the court, and the trials in Estonia do not last so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U88	Yeah, I've read the whole file. On the basis of § 378 (6) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I had to decide whether the prosecution would be politically biased or otherwise manifestly unfounded. But it's up to the court to decide. The court decides, I'm not the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U89	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! [[Summing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U91	I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen to the debate! Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U92	If the court deals with the case of a member of the Riigikogu, do and to what extent must the member of the Riigikogu take into account the working schedule of the member of the Riigikogu? The problem is that if there are hearings on those days when important votes are held in the Riigikogu, the result of the vote may be affected if one vote is missing. After all, there are sitting-free weeks in the Riigikogu, there are no sittings on Fridays, but as my colleague Urbo Vaarmann claims, this will not be taken into account and the hearings will still take place during the sessions of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U93	One option would be to provide for criminal proceedings, which would be Parliament's discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U94	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! According to Urbo Vaarmann, the procedure against him actually started because the election campaign of a member of the Riigikogu was investigated, but the case was closed. Was that so? Did the Chancellor of Justice pay particular attention to this because one of the reasons for the procedure is clearly political action?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U96	Yeah, I looked into these two things very carefully. I still didn't identify it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U97	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U98	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! Since you didn't answer Valeri Korb's question, I'll ask you about it. How can the trials in Estonia be so long? The story of the arm's length has been going on for 26 months, but colleagues recall that we have trials that have begun in 2006. As Chancellor of Justice, have you taken steps to ensure that justice can take place in a more reasonable time? You didn't find it, but if you look at this thing we're discussing, a person with a little bit of normal thinking sees what's called political connotations about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U99	Yes, first of all, all procedures could be quicker. However, as I emphasised, Parliament has the right to provide for criminal proceedings. Secondly, I've been analyzing that, but that's another subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U100	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U101	Mr. Chancellor of Justice! At the end of the first paragraph of the second page of the proposal to the Riigikogu, there is a sentence that I read out: 'Therefore, the consent of the Riigikogu, given on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, is also required to carry out such an act. ' What action do you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U102	It is precisely because the Supreme Court has made a decision that this should be decided by the Riigikogu. I mentioned earlier Article 12 of the Constitution, which lays down the principle of equality. Urbo Vaarmann had been charged before. I decided rationally, but since the Supreme Court decided so, the Riigikogu must vote again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U103	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U104	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I didn't understand your answer at all. Maybe you'll overdo it? If the trial falls at the same time as the sitting of the Riigikogu, where must the member of the Riigikogu be brought to trial? Does he have to come here to do his main job or go to court?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U105	In the case of Urbo Vaarmann, the pre-trial procedure ended before he became a member of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, Article 76 of the Constitution does not concern him. Consequently, the fact that he is a member of the Riigikogu could not have had any influence on the procedure. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court found that immunity must also be taken from the person who became a member of the Riigikogu after the pre-trial procedure has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U106	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U107	Thank you, Mr President. During the debate on the previous item, you mentioned that you should not have come here with a proposal to remove the immunity of the ambassador, but the Supreme Court decided so, and you have no choice. That's how we understood your position. I and my colleagues here listen to your answers and we feel that about half of the answers are not in any logical or semantic connection with the questions that have been asked. Are you doing this on purpose so that the absurdity of what is happening can be seen by everyone, or is it happening to you by accident?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U108	Absolutely not! It's the judgment you have to follow, just like the law. There's nothing to do. I thought it would make more sense, easier, but it's not. You're gonna have to vote. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U109	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U110	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! I'm asking for your personal opinion. Do you consider this normal when former state prosecutors start working for the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U111	I'm gonna have to do a little analysis and see if that's right or not. This is a slightly different situation, a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U112	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. This vote requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Dear colleagues, I will put the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to the final vote. Who's in favour of the proposal? Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 64), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 13 members of the Riigikogu with two abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U113	Let's move on to item number four. The third reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Dear colleagues, I will put a draft to the final vote on 521. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 521 amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U114	Let's move on to item five. The second reading of draft 606 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to determine the processing and settlement of the claims pooled by the VEB Fund' begins. Peep Aru, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, will present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U115	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the referral to second and last reading at its meeting on 25 March. We took note that no amendments were tabled. The Commission itself made one technical specification of the standard. We maintained our decision on 11 March that the draft should be put to the final vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-27_U116	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. No amendments were received to bill 606. The position of the lead committee is that today, at second reading, draft 606 should be put to the final vote. Dear colleagues, I will put to the final vote draft 606. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft decision of 606 was supported. The fifth item is closed and today's sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 11.07 a.m.
