ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the first working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Dear colleagues, pursuant to § 73 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the sitting today does not open the discussion of item No 1 because the documents on which the item is based have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu. Thus, there is no third reading of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, of the draft law amending other laws 507. Moving on to presence control. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30. There is a clarification on the agenda today. In fact, at the debate on today's item, when discussing the Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, which was not announced by the President of the Republic, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be presented by Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and by Remo Holsmer, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U2	The amendment of the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, which has not been declared by the President of the Republic, begins to be renegotiated. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, By decision of 18 December last year, the President of the Republic exercised his right, granted to him pursuant to § 107 of the Constitution, and failed to declare the Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 11 December 2013, finding that § 27 (12) of the Act is contrary to § 11, 13 and 31 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia (to be separated, not in conjunction with them). The Constitutional Commission discussed the decision of the President of the Republic at its meeting on 14 January, with the participation of Ülle Madise, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic, and Mall Gramberg, Deputy Head of the Internal Department of the Office of the President. The Commission held an in-depth debate. In the context of § 107 of the Constitution, the idea is that the suspension veto of the President must be based on the arguments of the Constitutional Disadvantage of the Act. We have a parliamentary state, not a presidential one. As a result, the President is the guardian and guardian of the Constitution. If we had a directly elected President and a presidential state order, his veto could include other arguments, including rational choices, expediency and legal policy guidelines. In other words, shortcomings in legislation, errors or inconsistencies with other legislation, insufficient economic policy relevance or a lack of justification for the choices made by law are regrettable, but if they do not result in a manifest violation of the Constitution, this cannot be the subject of the President's veto powers in our system. These questions were discussed 20 years ago. § 11 of the Constitution provides the basis for the limitation of fundamental rights, i.e. the so-called principle of proportionality, laying down: 'Rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. These restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the rights and freedoms that are restricted. 'The second paragraph mentioned by the President in his decision is § 13, which states everyone's right to the defence of the state and of the law, including the principle of legal clarity: 'Everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. [---] The law protects everyone from arbitrary acts of state authority. ' § 31 of the Constitution provides for freedom to conduct a business by providing that Estonian citizens have the right to engage in entrepreneurship and to be incorporated into profit-making associations and associations. The law may lay down the conditions and procedures for the exercise of this right. We must also pay attention to the fact that the state budget has been adopted, it can no longer be changed, nor can the planned receipts be changed as a basis for drawing up the state budget. Paragraph 27 (12) of the contested act provides for the obligation to submit, as an annex to the VAT return, invoices in excess of EUR 1000: 'The annex to the VAT return shall record for goods and services subject to a VAT rate of 20% and 9% to a legal person, a self-employed person, and a public, rural and urban authority, if the total amount of invoices or invoices, excluding VAT, is at least EUR 1000 per transaction partner during the tax period. The transaction partner-specific threshold shall be calculated separately for purchases and sales invoices. ' Since the constitutionality of the provision referred to is contested separately, rather than in conjunction with the paragraphs, those paragraphs must also be treated separately or separately. That's what I'm trying to do next. The second sentence of Article 31 of the Constitution, which provides for freedom of enterprise, clearly states that the conditions and procedure for the exercise of that right are laid down by law. As we can see, legislation at law level has also tried to do so. Regulating the exercise of freedom to conduct a business, determining its conditions and procedures is a prerogative of the executive. This right has also been exercised by the Ministry of Finance and has submitted a relevant draft law. There is therefore no reason to claim that the draft is contrary to § 31 of the Constitution, taken separately. Secondly, § 13 of the Constitution is two paragraphs. The President has not specified which paragraph the contested law is contrary to. In the light of its arguments, it can be assumed that this is paragraph 2 of that section, which states that the law protects everyone from arbitrary acts of state authority. However, argumentation of maladministration or word-breaking behaviour has not been used. However, reference has been made to the principle of legal clarity which forms part of this provision. The alleged inconsistency of the contested law with the Notariat Act and the Bar Act is used for argument. However, it has not been opened precisely, with what and how this law conflicts. This general argument can be accepted. Unfortunately, it is not clear which rules are in which conflict of laws and how this is clearly contrary to the Constitution. It is possible that this is a legislative deficit which could also be overcome by the President, using the rules of interpretation. Therefore, the contradiction of the law in question with § 13 of the Constitution, in particular paragraph 2 of the Constitution, is possible, but quite questionable, because the contradiction has not been opened further. Thirdly, § 11 relates to the fundamental argument of the President's objection to the Constitution, namely the principle of proportionality contained therein. The principle of proportionality is somewhat different in human rights law and in European Union law. Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union, which provides for the principle of proportionality, lays down that power is exercised by the authorities within the limits of the powers conferred upon them. This action must be necessary to achieve the objective and the content and form of the action must be consistent with the objective. This distinguishes between four stages in the proportionality test. First, the existence of a legitimate purpose. Secondly, the instrument offered must be suitable for achieving the objective, including evidence that the measure achieves the desired objective or effect. Thirdly, the instrument must be necessary to achieve this objective and there must be no alternative, less damaging measure. Fourthly, the instrument must be reasonable, justified and take into account the conflicting interests of interest groups. Proportionality in a narrower sense (stricto sensu) means an assessment of the balance between the objective pursued and the measures taken. Their pros and cons will be considered, i.e. the so-called loss and benefit assessment method will be applied. Draft 493 arrived at the Riigikogu on 25 September last year. The next day, the Riigikogu took this draft into procedure, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed it for the first time on 7 October last year. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not known and the request of the President of the Republic does not reveal why the Ministry of Finance started a large number of tax restructurings affecting taxable persons so late. It is a good tone to make tax restructuring in such a way that taxable persons have at least one year to make the necessary preparations. It is the so-called vacatio legis, when the act has been adopted but is not yet in force. Nor does the request show which stakeholders and how these proposed changes were negotiated. The President of the Republic pointed out that its compliance with the relevant law of the European Union was not taken into account in the drafting of the draft. Although the constitutional review of the President of the Republic does not fall within the competence of assessing the compatibility of national law with the law of the European Union, it is possible that the President is essentially right. In particular, settlements are not covered by the regulation offered with foreign countries, i.e. the regulation offered on a cross-border basis, or it is essentially difficult to do so. This should have been addressed in the preparation of the draft. However, it cannot be overlooked that the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu had at least two months to correct and correct the shortcomings of the draft, which could also have changed its possible date of entry into force. If, on the basis of the above criteria, a brief and concise assessment is made as to whether the proportionality criteria are met, we can state the following: Firstly, the aim of the draft is undoubtedly legitimate, seeking better tax collection and avoidance of tax evasion. The instrument is also appropriate for the purpose of pursuing the objective, but it may be argued that its application rate and the effectiveness of the proposed instrument can be demonstrated. Secondly, the instrument is perhaps necessary to improve tax discipline and avoid tax evasion. Thirdly, insufficient consideration and evaluation of suitable or less damaging alternatives has perhaps been put forward. Fourthly, the most problematic is the reasonableness, feasibility or sufficient justification of the instrument and the way in which it is prepared, including the negotiation with stakeholders, and whether sufficient time has been left to allow the persons affected by this legislative amendment to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U4	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! There's a very large buzz in the hall, which, I think, has nothing to do with bill 493. I ask you to honor the waitress and those people who want to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U5	Thank you! Thus, the proportionality criterion, possibly legal clarity, is, but only partially, affected. Whether or not the barricade is at such an intensity that it leads to constitutional illegality remains questionable. In summary, good legislative practice has been ignored or insufficient attention has been paid to this practice, perhaps it is also a piece of legislation and weakly argued and explained economic policy choices. It doesn't honor those who prepare the bill, and it's a mistake that needs to be eliminated. While it is necessary to review the economic policy choices and rationale, including the quality of legislation, it should not be carried out through a suspensive veto procedure or, if so, in a very thorough, convincing and appropriate manner, i.e. it should be convincingly pointed out that there is an obvious contradiction with the Constitution. The advantages and disadvantages of the regulation proposed in the draft are evident in practice, so far they are predominantly speculative. If necessary, the shortcomings could be corrected by an appropriate constitutional review procedure, either through the political initiative, the Chancellor of Justice or through the courts. The President of the Republic has proposed that the deficiencies be remedied. Whether the bill will be processed again in the Riigikogu depends on your decision. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to re-examine the draft and to make corrections based on its merits. It is appropriate and in the general interest that the deficiencies identified be corrected and the comments made are taken into account. Good luck to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U6	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Mr President of the Commission. You did a lot of reporting on your personal position. That is what you did in the Commission. I must say, however, that at least two political groups in the Commission maintained that this draft is contrary to the Constitution and that the President has exercised his veto right. Did I get it right that your position is that the President, on this bill, was, as if, abusing his veto right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U9	Thank you! No, I don't think he abused his veto. However, I tried to point out here (we also tried to clarify this in the Commission) that if the President takes a suspended veto, it must be based on clear and convincing arguments of constitutional opposition. But by looking at this veto and the way it is presented, the motivation, it seems that the focus is on the justification of legal policy choices and other such arguments, not so much on constitutional opposition. This is what I wanted to draw attention to both in the Commission and here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I must have missed this place from your speech, and therefore I would ask you to comment further on the likely contradiction of this law with European Union law, as the Commission dealt with it. Now the other part of my question. You admitted that this was still some kind of vicious legislation. Yes, the president is the last filter to stop it. But not all filters need to be constitutional and constitutional. If there are more centres of competence that highlight bottlenecks and if these remarks are taken into account, the result will be better. Unfortunately, the opinions expressed by representatives of business organisations, a number of people who claimed that there were problems with this law, were disregarded. What makes it so clear that management and legislation are very monological and are going down from the top?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U11	First of all, I will answer the first part of the question. Neither the Committee on Constitutional Affairs nor the President of the Republic has jurisdiction in the area of constitutional review to assess the compatibility of our laws with the law of the European Union. This is one of the shortcomings of our legal system. Perhaps we should work to eliminate this, so that constitutional monitoring starts to include an assessment of the consistency between our laws and European Union law. You asked about compliance with European Union law. This was briefly mentioned in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is known that the relevant directive of the European Union provides for certain requirements as to what countries could ask for on VAT returns. This is not directly the subject of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that is why it was not discussed in detail. This could or should be done by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its future work. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; we cannot assess compliance with good practices in the preparation of one law or another. Compliance with them should be a general rule in all committees. However, from a constitutional point of view, we can only assess how the President has argued the use of a suspended veto. What choices and justifications have been proposed there, it remains to be assessed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U12	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U13	Thank you. My question is more or less in the same key as the previous questioners. Your report revealed that this law is rather not in conflict with the Constitution, and the President has therefore somewhat exceeded his powers. At the same time, you admitted that this law is probably, or very probably, contrary to good legislative practice. Who could be the institution in Estonia that appreciates the laws already adopted from this point of view? Is it necessary to create a separate institution? Is it necessary to place this task on an existing institution, as you have admitted, by talking about compliance with European law? Or should we hope that good practice will develop in society and that things will get better?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U14	Thank you. Very good question and comment. The custom isn't born overnight. This requires long-term practice to be put into practice and guided by certain standards, standards and good behaviour, which takes time. This is, above all, a matter of the day-to-day work and attitude of the government and parliamentary committees. If this is not enough, other procedures will intervene. For example, the President of the Republic will do so later, when the law is already in force, the Chancellor of Justice may intervene and certain clarifications will arise through case law, as is the case in a normal country. That's why I wouldn't be too impatient about this, it just takes time. Putting this practice into practice by a method of command or by means of a repressive instrument is very complicated. I don't think there's a need for that either.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U15	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U16	Thank you. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! In your report, it was your view that this law is not against the Constitution, but may be a brief gesture. At the same time, it is now under discussion whether or not to accept the President's proposal. It is not under discussion whether the government coalition has once again adopted a law that contains a large number of legal breaches. This has happened before, for example, in the case of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. You came before us with a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the President's proposal should be accepted. Is the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to agree with the President that this is a law contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U17	The short answer is yes, but this unconstitutionality is weakly motivated. I wanted to draw attention to this because in my earlier life I have seen quite a number of vetoes by the President of the Republic and the way in which they are justified. I felt it necessary to point out that the argument should be stronger on the basis of constitutionality. But in terms of content, the president is right. If we have good will, then we should correct the shortcomings that have been highlighted and perhaps have been known before. We've been given a chance. Let's do this!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U18	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U19	Thank you. First of all, I certainly support the re-examination of the draft. But if you look at the draft laws that the Government of the Republic is presenting to us, for which the level of preparation is certainly higher than the drafts prepared here in the Riigikogu, and looking at the reasons for these, I have a question. What does the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs think we should ask the Minister, even in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, at the discussion of each bill, whether there has been enough discussion about what alternatives are and why they have been abandoned? There is not much to be said about the discussion of alternatives in the explanatory notes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U20	Thank you. That's a very good point. When the draft is being prepared, it must also be convincingly presented why this option is the only correct solution and what alternatives were discussed. This is quite an appropriate part of the assessment of the proportionality test, so that regulation can be useful and the rights and freedoms of people are affected as little as possible. A perfectly correct point, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U21	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. You must be well acquainted with the changes that the law plans to make. Has the conflict with the Constitution now been removed, or is there still a chance that this issue will be brought to justice? What is your opinion? Are these changes sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U23	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U24	I am not familiar with these changes. This is not my concern in particular; it is the concern of the people concerned in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. That is why I am not making that assessment. I believe that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are fully aware of this issue. If you are interested in this question, the rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs may enlighten you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During the procedure for the draft, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received a large number of appeals and some of them also referred to the alleged contradiction with the Constitution. I'm just asking so we can have an exchange of views. Do you not think that such appeals, where reference is made to a possible contradiction with the Constitution, could automatically be forwarded to your committee? Just in case, because maybe constitutional compliance has not been sufficiently controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U26	Thank you. First of all, I don't think it should happen automatically. Secondly, we cannot in any way regard ourselves as an ultimative or last source of truth in terms of constitutionality. There are procedures and institutions in our country to assess constitutionality: the President of the Republic, the Chancellor of Justice, courts, etc. This will ensure better respect for the Constitution in the collection. Although I understand your question, I must say, however, that the alleged miscarriage of the Constitution cannot become some sort of malakish with which it is waving. It cannot be that, if any law is under discussion, it is claimed to be unconstitutional, but this argument is left unsubstantiated and convincingly unexplained. Such a development would not be most welcome. I do not consider it necessary for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to evaluate every draft in this regard. Although we are ready to make our assessment when a committee comes to us. We have done so before, and we will continue to do so now and in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U27	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair member of the Finance Committee, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a very thorough discussion and approach in the committee. Likewise, I thank the Committee on Monetary Affairs for wishing it good luck. It will certainly take success and strength to deal with this draft. The decision of the President of the Republic not to announce the Act amending the Income Tax Act and the Accounting Act was discussed by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu in its two sittings: on Monday and Tuesday this week. At Tuesday's session, Ülle Madise, Legal Adviser, gave an overview of the President's motives in the absence of the Act. In many ways, these motives were described by the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I also briefly stop at them. It is contrary to § 31 of the Constitution to impose an obligation to fill in an annex to the VAT return on all taxable persons who are liable to value added tax (VAT) because the freedom of business is disproportionately limited when, in the middle of the financial year, an undertaking is obliged to convert the accounting software and the customer's data base and has to comply with the monthly obligation to declare to a greater extent. All of this would be constitutional if it could be stated with certainty that the measure would actually reduce the VAT gap. The second constitutional aspect is that all information relating to business secrecy is concentrated in a large database. In the President's view, it is questionable whether security requirements are adequately guaranteed in this regard. There is also the question of legal clarity concerning the so-called liberal professions: notaries, lawyers, employees. If only this problem had been the case, the President's legal adviser said that the veto would not have been used. The representative of the President's Office explained that if the President had not used the veto, the Supreme Court would probably have declared the law unconstitutional, which in turn would have brought claims for damages to the state. So much for the comments of Legal Adviser Ülle Madise in the Commission. Marek Uusküla, representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained that the Ministry is preparing a more in-depth analysis. Five working groups work for the preparation of the new explanatory memorandum. The issues under discussion relate to impact analysis, administrative burden, security of data handling and the proportionality of the law. Compliance with the VAT Directive will also be analysed. When the original draft of the explanatory memorandum is completed, of course stakeholders can comment on it and make proposals on it. From the proposed amendments, I will describe those which are on the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which should, in one form or another, reach the text of the new draft if the Riigikogu decides not to adopt this law unchanged today. In order to ensure a smoother transition to the new regulation, it is proposed to include an implementing provision allowing for the data to be reported in aggregated form per transaction partner in the annex to the VAT return. This concerns, in particular, the major retailers who proposed this to the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu in December, when the draft was still pending. When it comes to business secrecy, it has to be said that the information systems of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board are as safe as banks. However, the credibility of banks is considerable in the eyes of Estonian entrepreneurs and people. They have not raised such questions, even though they have the same information available to them. The Tax and Customs Board is still using a very comprehensive database. However, the security of data handling will be thoroughly addressed in the forthcoming explanatory memorandum. The amendments, as well as the explanatory memorandum, deal more closely with the legal clarity of the liberal professions and the possible inconsistency with the VAT Directive. To sum up, the main topics of the Commission's debate were: Does the initiator intend to further analyse alternative solutions? In this respect, the initiator confirmed that the analysis of alternative solutions will be available to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all other members of the Riigikogu in a future explanatory memorandum. The proportionality of the restriction on the freedom to conduct a business was discussed at length. For example, the committee pointed out that it would be interesting to find out the Supreme Court's position on how it would embodi the concept of freedom of business in relation to this law. It was asked that if the text of the law remained the same in its essence and only the explanatory statement was amended, would the regulation be compatible with the Constitution. The representative of the President's Office explained that the main question was whether other measures would help to achieve the same objectives but would be less stringent. Unless it is objectively possible to regulate otherwise, there is no problem, provided that this issue has been thoroughly examined. Is the proposed regulation contrary to the VAT Directive? If you look at the substance of the matter, it must be said that the registration code, as such, does not have an impact on the refund of VAT. The Accounting Act lays down the requirements for the original accounting document; Article 226 of the VAT Directive lists the invoice props. The requirements of the Accounting Act are mandatory in Estonia for all persons subject to accounting obligations and are broader than those of the VAT Directive. For example, the directive says that the invoice cannot be signed, but the Accounting Act states that the invoice has a signature. The VAT Directive regulates the principles of VAT and concerns the taxable person. The Accounting Act must be observed by all accounting officers. In any event, the Commission will return to this issue in the course of the further procedure and will be thoroughly analysed. The procedural decisions of the Committee on Finance were as follows: to propose not to support the adoption of the law in its unaltered state and, if this proposal is supported by the House, it is our proposal to set ten working days by which amendments will be tabled. These decisions were taken by consensus in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U29	Thank you, honored waitress. You have questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U30	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did you discuss the following topic in the Commission when you were dealing with this draft? Once this law is adopted and implemented, the tax office will receive declarations made up of millions and millions of ulterior lines with company names and figures. These bills are all in a nice line there, but how does this passionate and enormous amount of information help in practice to prevent VAT fraud? As far as I'm concerned, if I sell something and get the money, but I don't want to pay taxes, I'm gonna transfer the money and go my way. The fact that this declaration is somewhere doesn't really stand in the way of a fraud. Did it even come to the phone?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U31	Thank you. This very fundamental question, which the honourable questioner is now asking whether the requirement for a registration code for purchasing invoices is sufficient to combat VAT fraud, was also discussed during the autumn session when discussing the draft. As the President pointed out by sending the law back here, this law was perhaps inadequately justified. There was also no description of alternatives to how VAT fraud and the VAT hole could be combated. I believe that we have a new debate ahead of us, provided that this House does not adopt the law again without amendment. You, the good questioner, too, can propose what could be the best way to combat VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U32	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday, we were discussing the draft basic law on the state budget. The Committee on Monetary Affairs had requested the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in good time. Can you explain why the Committee on Monetary Affairs didn't ask for an opinion on this bill? However, these problems were also mentioned in the opinions that the Committee on Monetary Affairs was supposed to have at hand. Did you even consider addressing the Committee on Constitutional Affairs instead of risking the President of the Republic not declaring the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U34	Thank you for your question. The possible contradiction or interference with the Constitution was, of course, discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is right that the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft basic law on the state budget. I think that why the opinion was not sought on the draft in question should be asked by the chairman of the committee. That's not going to help us right now. In my opinion, it would be more important to focus on how the new draft could be supplemented, proposed amendments to it and adopted the law in such a way as to achieve the intended objective and be done in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U35	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U36	Thank you. How does the Committee on Monetary Affairs assess how long it will take to amend this law, provided that it is not adopted unchanged today? There are probably quite a number of proposals for different methods of preventing VAT fraud. In principle, something should change, new methods should be introduced in order to avoid VAT fraud. How long would all this take? Secondly, what is the actual status of this year's State Budget Act already adopted if this law is reflected in the state budget as it is today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U37	Thank you. The deadline for submitting amendments to the Committee on Monetary Affairs is 23 January. The date on which the Committee on Monetary Affairs discusses the draft has not yet been decided, but it will happen as soon as possible. There is certainly no interest in dealing with it very quickly in the same way, but there is no reason to delay it in the other way. The draft is initiated by the Ministry of Finance. Their representative has confirmed that the new explanatory memorandum and amendments will be ready by the end of this week. There's still a day and a half left of this week, so tomorrow's original draft should be ready. Certainly, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all the political groups can work on this thoroughly and propose amendments. As I said, the deadline for tabling amendments is 23 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U38	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns the inconsistency of this law with the European Union directive, which provides for certain information that may be required in the VAT return, and excludes from them a number of data that this law makes mandatory for Estonian entrepreneurs. You mentioned in your report that Estonia has already passed laws that contradict this directive, such as the Accounting Act. However, a representative of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Finance said that this directive could also be interpreted differently. Will you please pass on the information that the directive, which, when read in black and white, has one idea, can be interpreted differently in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U41	Thank you. I said that the possible contradiction with the VAT Directive was that I would emphasise the word 'possible' rather than the substance. As I pointed out in the report, Estonian law also requires a signature on the bill; the VAT Directive does not provide for this. In the original form of the draft law under discussion, the Accounting Act provided for the inclusion of an paragraph requiring the submission of a registry code. Yes, it is not about combating VAT fraud in essence, but there are legal nuances that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the initiator will certainly analyse.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U42	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The adoption of the law will shift the circuit for a few months. Is the implementation of the law therefore moving forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U43	Thank you. It is now very difficult to predict. I don't dare say it. As I said in answering one question, one way or another, I would not like to rush; the other way, there is no reason to stall too much. When the law will be passed and when it will be implemented is a matter of the coming weeks. It's too premature to answer that now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U44	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U45	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! One of the main reasons why the President vetoed this law is that burdens are imposed on all operators, even though there are few frauds. This law does not guarantee that the target will be achieved and VAT will be better collected. I understand that the coalition also believes that this law does not fulfil this objective. Have you discussed, perhaps there is some way to reduce VAT fraud more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U46	Thank you. In the introduction to the question, you referred to the reason why the President did not declare this law. I quote the reasoning set out in his decision: 'If a detailed analysis can be submitted to the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs and the public, please do so again during the debate. I would also like to ask you to consider the period during which large retailers, for example, can adapt their customer databases and accounting software to possible changes. ' Why did I read it? The president did not veto the intended purpose as such. What was the final part of your question? Other measures. Of course, it has been considered that, for example, in the case of cross-border VAT fraud, there is one possibility of extending the period of refund to even 60 days. The second option is to take more employees into the tax administration. There's no alternative. I believe that the initiator of the draft will present them in a new and more comprehensive explanatory memorandum. We can consider them and decide which measure seems to be the most sensible measure for the Riigikogu in combating VAT fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U47	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U48	Thank you. The president didn't announce the law and stepped in. Did it ever occur to the Commission that there is actually one simple reason for this: in order to prevent some abnormal people from breaking the law, all normal people will be punished by law, just in case? Don't you think that's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U49	Thank you. I think 'punishment' is a bit of a harsh word to describe the move towards this desired goal. Yes, in the initial phase of implementation of the changes, businesses will certainly need to spend both time and money, but this is a one-off cost. In the future, the VAT return supplement will be submitted automatically. In the longer term, compliance with this annex will not increase the administrative burden or the time needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U50	Good waitress, I have a comment to make. If the Riigikogu plenary decides to change the 493 Act, is it right to say that the commission is expecting amendments by 5.15 p.m. by 30 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U51	I'm sorry! The Commission's decision was that the deadline for tabling amendments could be ten working days. When I was wrong about the dates, the manager's comment was probably appropriate. Our proposal is to allow ten working days for amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U52	Thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U53	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are once again in a situation where, as a Riigikogu, we do our work as we should. We're with the President's help, but I think we're almost in agreement that we need to change this law. After all, the Government of the Republic of Estonia behaves like a blind forest, which no longer understands where to move and how to move and what to deny there, as soon as it takes two steps, so it runs against the tree with its head. I recall, on this platform, that legislative instability arose at the moment when the word 'VAT' came seriously, so when we raised VAT from 18% to 20% on a nice summer day in this Chamber, with one week and a half advance notice. In the eyes of society, it looked very ugly. Next time the subject of VAT was discussed in this Chamber of the Riigikogu for two years. In particular, we tried by law to reduce fraud with VAT on fuel. We finally succeeded after two years of preparation. At that time, however, I did not understand why it took us all two years to do so. I clearly remember that when we were able to pick up the fruits of this change, Taavi Kõivas, as chairman of the Monetary Commission, came here to exclaim that we have, by chance, won EUR 100 million, and let everyone see how good we are. But we could have won a lot more if we'd acted a little more operationally, because we actually had this whole scheme played out for us. Now we are at the point of declaring VAT, so let's say, in this situation where businesses are given a considerable obligation to declare more than EUR 1000 bills. If we look at the nature of VAT, we understand that it is relatively unclear to the operating company how this measure should work. I tried to ask the previous speaker about it. I asked about the sale, because it's the fraudsters that this law is supposed to fight that are selling a lot and at the same time. Someone somewhere, like an accountant, if he exists, could, of course, draw up some kind of declaration and write down this passionate line somewhere. But if I don't have a plan to pay the state a dime from the beginning, I'm gonna take the money I've received and disappear. By the time this declaration ever reveals anything, I'm long gone. However, those who do their daily work, submit a VAT return, and pay VAT to the state, are suffering and must work much harder. Why I'm saying this could be a question for you. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U54	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U55	Thank you. What I'm saying may seem strange. But you see, we in the Riigikogu are still in the situation that if we make these mistakes in a row, the gap between us and the real world, the same entrepreneurs who no longer understand what we are doing, will be so great that it will no longer make sense. Understand! We read in the report that Estonia once again has more freedom to conduct a business, and we are 11th in the world. Yes, we would like to be happy and happy and cry out to the sun for joy. After all, Estonian entrepreneurship is primarily a small enterprise. When it comes to entrepreneurs, it turns out that they do not feel a change for the better. They say that their lives have become harder and more difficult because with little turnover and no profit, it is quite difficult to meet all these requirements. The worse it is if you've been struck with a stamp on your forehead just in case. '. At the same time, the issue of the abyss arises again. Statistically speaking, we seem awfully pretty. If I remember correctly, the cover story of yesterday's Äripäev (Business Day, of course, is a yellow-coloured page) claimed that exports decreased by 9% in the 11 months of last year. In my opinion, this is a considerable sign of danger. The reason was also mentioned there. Namely, our basic markets in Scandinavia have frozen, which is true. However, this shows that we may be free in business, but isn't that freedom at one point going to mean that we just have nothing to do, we are so free that we don't have to do anything anymore? I think that we must fight with all the means we have to prevent such draft laws from coming here again. In fact, I assure you that I do not dare to call everything that has been brought here to us, such as the proposals relating to the value-added tax on trade cars, substantive stupidity. I once thanked Jürgen Ligi here on the remote for acting like a normal middle partyman who's also trying to tax some wealth. In fact, it is not often foolish that has been brought here; it is not the content of these initiatives. That's sad. The question is how these initiatives come here. Now we get back to the start of my speech. These drafts come here somehow by accident, unprepared, untested, seemingly untested. These ideas are kind of in the initial phase. Here, too, was the comparison of wandering in the dark forest. I remember environmental charges. The Court has issued a decision that will directly cost the State EUR 4.8 million (if I correctly remembered the figures from Mr Kallo's speech yesterday) and an additional EUR 12 million will not be collected. This amounts to almost EUR 17 million. We in this Chamber of the Riigikogu argued that perhaps a little over 20 million euros would have been needed for child support. Look how easily the numbers go through our hands. The figures are passionate on the one hand, but on the other, they show our level of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not go on like this again. This is my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-01-16_U56	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Before we vote, I will try to explain what the President will put to the vote. Namely, I will put to the vote the adoption of the Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, which has been returned to the Riigikogu by the President of the Republic, without amendment. Let it be said so much that both committees that have discussed this law, both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have proposed not to adopt it unchanged. I am voting on the re-adoption of the Act amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, which the President of the Republic has sent back to the Riigikogu, as unchanged. Please take a stand and vote. There were no members of the Riigikogu in favour, 73 members of the Riigikogu opposed and no one abstained. The Riigikogu did not adopt the law unchanged. Further processing of this law will take place in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. I set the deadline for submitting amendments to the VAT Act and the Accounting Act. a at 5.15 p.m. on 30 January. The Steering Committee is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We are done dealing with the item. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 11.02 a.m.
