ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the VIIIth plenary session. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U2	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Professional Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovisk represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law on the organisation of the fisheries market. Thirdly, the draft law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar when dealing with the two draft laws mentioned above. Fourthly, the draft law amending the 2014 State Budget Act. And fifthly, the bill to amend the Gambling Act, the Media Services Act and the Advertising Act. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U3	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The issue of questioning is the reduction of tax fraud in the fuel business. In June 2014, Harju County Court found Oleg Belokrylov and his nine accomplices guilty of creating a criminal organisation to deal with large-scale VAT fraud. As a result of VAT fraud, the country lost over EUR 30 million. According to the judgment, the parties must repay less than EUR 7 million from the 30 million mentioned above. Oleg from Belokrylov companies also supplied fuel from Jetoil AS, Olerex AS and many others. In recent years, Jetoil and Olerex have won tens of millions of euros in public procurement. According to the data published on business day, the financial volume of public procurement that was won to date from the beginning of 2012 is close to EUR 95 million in Jetoli, and Olerex has a volume of EUR 20 million. Olerex and Jetoil confirm that they were unaware of Belokrylov's tax fraud. However, Äripäev has repeatedly pointed out that neither company has agreed to disclose its entire supply chain. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U5	Thank you. Five draft laws have been adopted, which are decided by the Bureau on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. An inquiry shall be forwarded to the addressee if it meets the requirements laid down in the same law. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. Agenda. In addition to what is on the agenda for you, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to add a second reading to the agenda for the Wednesday sitting by draft law amending the Identity Documents Act and the State Fees Act 669. With this amendment, I shall put the agenda to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the agenda of this week be confirmed. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, no one is against, 1 is impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U6	Today's first item is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Reet Roosi, Sven Sester, Peeter Laurson, Siim Kiisler, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Urmas Reinsalu, Andrus Saare, Kaia Iva and Margus Tsahkna about ferry connections with Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. On behalf of the heirs, Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U7	Honorable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! On 17 June, with eight of my group's colleagues from IRL, we submitted an inquiry to the Honorable Auditor General about ferry connections with Hiiumaa and Saaremaa. At the time, we found that the Government of the Republic at the time decided that it would be appropriate, in the interests of the State and taxpayers, to organise ferry connections with ships owned by the State company and to procure only operator services on the market. This was done precisely on the grounds that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had submitted specific calculations which confirmed that securing shipping connections in this way is clearly more useful to the taxpayer. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this amount, by which it is more useful, is estimated to be EUR 6 to 8 million per year. Nevertheless, in June, the Cabinet announced unexpectedly that it would be open for 10 years, which means that until 2026 the operation would be locked and that it would remain in the hands of one company that would win the procurement for the entire long time. In this regard, we have four questions for the Auditor General, which I think is very important, namely the question of profitability. Does the Auditor General know what estimates were available and why such a decision was made if the public continues to know that the path chosen is more harmful to the taxpayer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U8	Auditor General Alar Karis must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 17 June, nine members of the Riigikogu approached me with an inquiry and asked questions about the organisation of ferry connections on the routes Rohuküla-Heltermaa and Kuisva-Virtsu. In the autumn of 2013, the Government of the Republic decided that it would be appropriate to organise the link between the mainland and Saaremaa and Hiiumaa with the ships owned by the State company and that only the operator service would be procured from the market. On 12 June this year, the Cabinet announced that the State would announce a tender for the establishment of an operator for a period of 10 years from 1 October 2016. According to the complainants, the government's comments on the amendment of the Autumn 2013 decision were insufficient and contradictory. In order to answer the questions of the heirs, the National Audit Office examined the documents relating to the preparation and subsequent implementation of the minutes of the Cabinet's proceedings on the subject. We also asked the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the current Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the State Chancellery, the relevant officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Management Board of the Port of Tallinn of AS and the representatives of Saaremaa Shipping Company. In my reply, I assume that the materials and explanations submitted to the National Audit Office are true and complete. We did not carry out separate controls to make sure of this. I'll get to the questions. The first question: 'What is your assessment of the government's decision to abandon the purchase or construction of ships and to organise a public competition to find an operator with ships in a situation where it is known that there are no alternative providers on the market? ' I will answer, but I must first of all make it clear that although the questioners refer to a government decision in their questions, the government has not actually made legal decisions or orders on ferries at its meeting. However, this issue has been discussed at the meetings of the cabinet, which are the form of the meetings of the members of the government. There, the government does not make decisions within the meaning of the Government Act. The meeting has taken note of the information provided on the ferry fleet, developed views and approved former activities. Now to the answer to the first question. The government is known to be a collegial body, trying to make its decisions consensually. The explanations given to the National Audit Office show that the government no longer had unanimous confidence in the implementation of the decision taken in autumn 2013, as there were differences between the promoters. For example, according to the explanations given to the National Audit Office, the Board of the Port of Tallinn did not have the conviction that the acquisition of ships to the company and their subsequent operation through a public competition were in accordance with state aid rules. The Council also found that the Minister's guidelines are unclear and that the Minister has given the Council guidelines in the role of the general meeting of the company which do not fall within the competence of the shareholder. The officials of the Ministry, on the other hand, considered that there would not have been prohibited State aid in this case, and the Council of the Port of Tallinn simply looked for reasons to delay the process. The National Audit Office is not a legal mediator and our role is not to announce a winner or loser in a dispute between the Ministry and the Port of Tallinn. In conclusion, instead of constructively and constructively dealing with the best ferry connection, the Ministry and the company under its control spent valuable time in barren disputes. The second question: "Does the terms of the contract of the operator described in the memorandum on which the Government decision was based constitute targeted public procurement conditions? ' According to the National Audit Office, the procurement conditions organised by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for finding a carrier were not those which would have clearly preferred a company on the routes of Rohuküla and Kuivastu. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the terms of the procurement and the methodology for assessing the tenders did not give any tenderer a lead in winning the procurement. The organised procurement favours the provider who needs the least support from the State for the provision of the ferry operator service. Question 3: "Which estimates were based on the government's decision to tender for the operator with the ships? " The cabinet was able to shape its position on the basis of the materials presented at the cabinet meetings and stored in the relevant information system. On 12 June 2014, a memorandum on two pages, a comparison of alternatives on one page and a presentation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the ferry connection (a total of five slides). At the same time, the cabinet is not bound by written material presented to it in shaping its attitudes, but is, of course, free to take into account all other information and circumstances. Question 4: 'The government has announced that it will oblige the Port of Tallinn to participate in the competition for finding an operator, which means that the Port of Tallinn should not only acquire ships but also operate the operator service. What business plan did the government base its decision on this, and do you consider it justified? ' I assume that the questioners have been referring to the business plan of the Port of Tallinn. For the sake of regularity, I would also like to mention the wording of the minutes of the Cabinet's decision of 12 June 2014. This is as follows, I quote: 'It is necessary to consider that, for reasons of competition, the Port of Tallinn of AS participates in the public procurement referred to in point 1 and carries out the activities necessary for the purchase of the ferry to participate in the procurement. ' Point 1 cited above refers to the Cabinet's decision to support the announcement by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of a public procurement procedure for the transport of ferry lines. At the meeting of the government office on 12 June 2014, the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn did not have a business plan approved by Rohuküla Later, the procurement of ferry operations and the opening of a new business area have taken place with the approval of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn of AS. I also note that the Port of Tallinn did not have a corresponding business plan when adopting the protocol decision of the Government Office last year. This was on 26 September 2013. At the time, it was decided to approve the general principle of the future ferry connection between the mainland and Saaremaa and Hiiumaa with ships owned by the State company or its subsidiary. The condition was that the costs would not increase when compared with the current state support for ferry connections between the mainland and Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. To sum it up. I did not manage to meet anyone who would confirm with all this year's ferry boot that it has strengthened his faith in the state's ability to act effectively and wisely and to solve problems constructively. Quite the opposite. I'll give you an example of my life. When our audit team was on its way to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to question the officials there to answer this question, the 'citizen's view' was taken together by the taxi driver who carried us. He said: "Fucking circus, country or thing! ' Neither as a citizen nor as a Auditor General, I want such an opinion to spread from the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U10	Questions for the Auditor General. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U11	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! Am I correct to understand your answer to the third question that, in September 2013, the Government had presented a calculation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which confirmed that, according to the plan at that time, there would be an annual savings of EUR 6 to 8 million, i.e. EUR 60 to 80 million after 10 years, but that, in June, if the initial plan to acquire ships for a state-owned company was abandoned, no other calculation was made or overturned.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U12	Thank you. The estimates presented in the decision of 26 September were actually based on estimates of the construction cost of EUR 30 million. There were no objective calculations when the decision of 12 June was adopted on the grounds that no specific offers were requested for the construction of ships. The construction costs were also then estimated and the prices were obtained during the purchase negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U13	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! In the context of the future of ferry traffic, we are talking about some sort of "Parts" plan. Do you understand, in your research, how different this so-called Duck plan is from the current developments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U15	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office has not received any information or information that there is a so-called Parts plan anywhere. We are talking about two meetings of the Cabinet: one was on 26 September 2013 and the other was on 12 June 2014. Whether people met each other in the meantime and had a plan, the National Audit Office has no data. Every citizen of the Riigikogu, as well as a member of the government, certainly has the right to communicate with one another.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U16	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Am I right to understand that you too have not understood where this sum of EUR 6 to 8 million, which has been repeated as mantra by several people here, has been taken? How is it even possible that these so-called notional figures are operated in public?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U18	Thank you. As I have already told you in one response, these are the estimated amounts obtained in negotiations with the ferry builders. The correct price of the ferry is known to be known when specific offers have been made. On the 26th of September, alternatives were considered, which amounted to ten, and the best one was recognized or the first one was the alternative to continue with the current company and later the ships could be bought out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U19	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U20	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I must say that your response today has been unusually cautious and general in comparison to the regular audits of the National Audit Office. This inquiry, which was made at the beginning of the summer, must certainly be viewed in its own time. The process has now moved on and we have learned more about the real situation. I have two questions. Does the National Audit Office intend to conduct further audits next year on the organisation of ferry traffic between the mainland and islands and all the procurements that the Estonian state has carried out and probably will carry out in the future? That's one. Secondly, have you now developed an opinion that would have been correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U21	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll start with the last question. I do not believe that we are much smarter now, and we cannot say anything later today, because, on the one hand, there has been a dispute, there has been legal proceedings, and, on the other hand, there is a negotiated procurement. That's why the process is still underway. It is certainly not possible to carry out an ex post assessment at this stage. But in the face of it, it's clear that there are bad and very bad choices left. As far as caution is concerned, I cannot say that it is a matter of caution. These views are based on statements and opinions that the National Audit Office has received when interviewing different parties. It certainly does not make sense to start reading the results of the interviews to you here today, because they are sometimes conflicting. From there, too, it is my view that we are not a judge between the various institutions in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U22	Tarmo Pine, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U23	Dear Auditor General! In your report you said that the National Audit Office is not a justice officer. That's right. The National Audit Office assesses how state assets, in this case money, are used. As far as I understand it, the question raised has been that the current yield chain is very long, but if the state owned the barges, money would be saved between them. You linked the question to the price of the future ferry. These things are not compatible. What's your estimate for this $8 million? Is it possible to shorten the supply chain on the basis of the current route, or should the State take on the situation that has now arisen?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U24	Thank you. The state should certainly not accept the situation that has arisen. As far as my answer to the previous question is concerned, it is a question of estimates, they are not based on direct estimates. I also don't know where this 8 million gains came from because it's estimated. Maybe it's $10 million, maybe it's $6 million. But the National Audit Office is certainly interested that ferry traffic will continue to take place after 1 October 2016 and that it will be as effective as possible and as cheap as possible for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U25	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U26	Thank you very much. Dear Auditor General! It seems to me that your answers, especially the summary and the quote of one of the leading employees at the end of this summary, were unusually determined and even sharp. I do not agree that the answers were somehow very round. There are many plans for ferry traffic, some of which, as we have just heard, are even called. Has any plan reached you that people in Hiiumaa and Saaremaa can take the ferry for free?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U27	Thank you. The questions raised to us in the inquiry were probably not expected from the respondents to address such an alternative. These were specific questions about specific transactions. I do not know whether or not free ferry traffic is possible and I do not wish to make an assessment. Plans have been different. One plan is to amend the Emergency Act so that if an emergency occurs after 1 October 2016, it can be implemented. However, it is probably not as simple as this, because, even if the Emergency Act were amended, it would rather concern a situation where the ferry carrier would at one point decide not to continue this transport, not that it could be implemented if a new alternative and a solution could not be found after the termination of the contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U28	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U29	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, They're talking about getting ships and buying ships, but I haven't heard how much it's gonna cost yet. Is there an indicative price for how much it will cost and from which sources will this cost be covered? Where does the state find the money for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U30	Thank you. The question of money is probably a question for the Minister of Finance, who would certainly be able to tell where that money comes from. But as I mentioned, the cost of one ferry is estimated at EUR 30 million. So if there are four ferry ships, you can make a simple estimate of what it costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U31	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, I have a question about potential savings, to which the heirs have also referred. Did I understand your answers correctly that your own response did not confirm that it would be possible to save the EUR 6 to 8 million referred to a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U33	Thank you for your question. Since this question had not been put directly to the Auditor General, there was a more general question, we did not look at it from this angle, and I do not know where this EUR 6 to 8 million comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U34	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U35	Thank you. Good Auditor General! It is a well-known fact that Minister Juhan Parts negotiated for more than a year and a half for the purchase and purchase of existing ferries, but for some mysterious reason he did not reach a result. Do you have any reason why this sale or purchase didn't take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U36	Thank you. Yes, the negotiations started on 3 November 2011 and ended with a failure on 25 June 2013, which I think was about to reach an agreement. What was the reason? I can't tell you why the negotiations failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure allow for a question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U38	Thank you. Dear waitress, I come back to Kalev Eagle. Since you have now considered the whole process, as well as the decisions that have been taken in the government, would you sum up the difference in substance between the decision taken by the government in relation to the ferry in September 2013 and the decision taken in June 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U39	Thank you. After all, there have been many debates. One option was to buy out with a call option. It has been under consideration that only the operator service, there has been an option that we buy out ships for ten years. These are very different options and all have been considered, both at the meeting of the Cabinet. Minister Palo also takes the view that the most sensible option would be for the State to buy out or take the ships at its disposal. But obviously, the reason things haven't happened is because of the time limit. As we know, in the September Cabinet debate, there was also a question as to whether the ships would be ready within the prescribed time to start sailing from 1 October 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U40	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U41	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Karis, Before you said in one of your answers that the country now has bad and very bad solutions on this issue. In the current situation, when the procurement is ongoing, it is not yet over, do you have more information or what this opinion is based on, that the result will be just bad or very bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U42	Thank you for your question. My opinion is based on the fact that the time given to us is just ticking. Because, like I said, we have a lawsuit. If the dispute continues, the winner of the procurement, which is currently being negotiated, cannot be announced. And that means that the confidence that people could and should have is gradually decreasing. That is why my answer is that there are only bad and very bad solutions. This does not mean that a bad solution is not a solution and that traffic is interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U43	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Auditor General! I am also aware from the press that procurement is ongoing and that there are now two bidders in the negotiated tender. Consequently, I was also alarmed by this statement that there are only bad and very bad solutions. What are the specific criteria that allow us to say that the country has only bad and very bad prospects for the future in the ferry industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U45	In answering your question, I would like to emphasise once again: this is because, from 2011, when this issue came up again, we have not reached a solution. And the more time moves forward, the less chance we can control the situation ourselves and reach the best solution. True, I fully agree that there are now two bidders, which in itself is very good. This gives hope that this shipping connection will also face competition that has not existed in previous years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U46	Thank you, Auditor General. I'm opening negotiations. As there is no wish to negotiate, I will end this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U47	The next question to be answered is an inquiry into the final mathematics examination of basic school by Yana Toom, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamm, Kalev Kallo and Kadri Simson. On behalf of the heirs, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U48	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu and Minister of Education and Science! Last spring, education was a historic moment. Due to the amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, our young graduates were obliged for the first time to take a mathematics examination. The compulsory mathematics exam of ninth grade students, or middle school graduates, was quite unexpected for many. And when we look at the comments made by the Communication Manager of Innove Foundation, it seems that the results of this exam were quite unpleasant for the heads of the Ministry of Education and its departments. First of all, the facts. The exam took place on June 6. The results showed that for many graduates of primary school, mathematics exams can become a major obstacle to graduating from school. The differences were quite large, but in some schools almost half of the ninth grade graduates were problematic. But now to the questions. The question referred to the alleged reasons for such a situation, which had also gone through the media. One reason has been the insufficient and allegedly poor work of mathematics teachers. Secondly, it has been pointed out that the exam assignments were not related to the curriculum, the solution was unfamiliar to the students, and the tasks were much more difficult than usual. It also mentions the task of so-called flower beds, which caused major problems. It is thought that solving such tasks does not reveal the real mathematics knowledge of students. If we look again at what has been going through the media, it is also frustrating that the overall structure of the exams was unconventional in the spring of last year. If, as a rule, about 15% of students do not pass the exam, we would like to know what the final statistics of this spring are, how many students failed the mathematics exam and what the comparison of the average curve is. Of course, if we look at the results of the PISA international test, we can be very proud of the knowledge and skills of our students. Perhaps it has also raised questions about what actually happened at the final exam. The question certainly arises as to how much the State Exam must be in line with the school programme. Do exam assignments have to correspond to what is taught in classes, or are they likely to differ significantly? The question is also who is ultimately responsible and what conclusions have been drawn from these exams. If we look at the content and learning outcomes of the various years' exam, the volatility has been very, very great. This raises the question of whether the students' knowledge is really so different from one year to the next, or whether the state exams are of very fluctuating severity. We are interested in what the Minister is planning to propose to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu and to the Riigikogu in general what steps we will take, where we will proceed with our state examinations in the future. Such failures, up to half the graduates, would certainly like to be avoided in the future. Thank you and we look forward to answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U49	Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski, I ask you to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U50	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions you have asked, but for starters, a little clarification. The introduction to the inquiry as well as the introduction to Mailis Reps mentioned that many pupils in primary school have found these results to be a major obstacle to graduating from primary school. I would point out that those who do not pass this state examination will be given the opportunity to take the re-examination as a school examination and, in the worst case of failure, the student will be able to complete comprehensive school on the basis of his/her application or the decision of the legal representative and on the basis of a two-grade graduation certificate. In the worst case, the student will repeat the class if the Board considers it appropriate and considers that this will improve the student's mathematics knowledge. If we go to the questions now, we can talk at national level about the part that Innove asks for in the sample of schools, i.e. about 10% of the state examination papers and their results are analysed each year. So these figures, which I am about to talk about, concern 10% of the examiners, i.e. 1,000-2000 students in the order of magnitude. In general, however, this sample is quite representative. Number of non-competitors at basic school mathematics examination by year: school year 2008/2009 24.9%; year 2010/2011 18.5%; year 2011/2012 16.1%; year 2012/2013 15.6%, also referred to in the inquiry, and year 2013/2014 26%, directly affected by this inquiry. When assessing these results, it should be borne in mind that curricula have changed. Evaluation criteria have also been tightened. For example, the threshold for a satisfactory score rose from 45% to 50%. If this spring were to have a '3' mark of 45%, the non-competitors would be 24.2% instead of the current 26%. So it doesn't have a very significant impact. However, graduates in the ninth grade of this year are those who have already studied for three years on the basis of the curriculum implemented in 2011. And with regard to the new curriculum, the mathematics examination tasks have been prepared by increasing the proportion of tasks year after year, where there is a large part of the text understanding, and the vital problem or task is related to a specific mathematical model. This is the difference between this year's exam and the previous one. Inquiries have asked whether the results of this particular examination were considered to lower the threshold for completion or receipt. Given that a graduate of primary school must be able to continue his/her studies, we do not consider it justified to simplify his/her learning outcomes, as this may give rise to setbacks in subsequent studies. The second question: 'Considering the good performances of our students in the PISA international student learning performance assessment program, do you think that the usual 15% failure of 9th grade students in the mathematics exam is a result that can be satisfied? " No, I'm sure I wouldn't want to be satisfied with that! At the same time, the average PISA performance of Estonian students can naturally be considered acceptable compared to the results of students from other countries. On the other hand, to the fifth and sixth attainment levels, that is to say, to the top of everything, we have only 14.6% in mathematics according to PISA tests. In Shanghai, for example, this figure is 55%. The lowest percentage of students in Estonia from European countries is those whose results were below basic level. In both mathematics and other areas of assessment, most of our students have achieved at least 91% of basic reading, 89% in mathematics, 95% in science. In mathematics, the PISA test below the baseline level, i.e. below the second achievement level of 10.5% of the students in the sample. At the same time, we must take into account that this second level of achievement is not known how high. The OECD has stressed that students from developed countries could have a third achievement level, and below the third achievement level, there is a third of students in Estonia. PISA results suggest that our students are doing very well in solving simpler tasks, but they are struggling with tasks that require more creative thinking. Given that the new mathematics syllabus, on the basis of which the tasks of the state examination in question were also drawn up, provides for the linking of vital problems with the mathematical model, the results of the comprehensive school exams are essentially in line with the results of the PISA test. However, it is strictly not correct to compare the PISA test and our exam results. The exam corresponds to our curriculum and PISA has its own goals, despite the fact that the subject's name is almost the same. The PISA test in solving mathematics tasks is also helpful for students with mathematical scores that are not allowed to be used in the comprehensive school final exam. That is why we can only use indirect comparison and it would not be correct to reply that, for example, PISA's third level of achievement corresponds to some specific grade. As with the results of PISA, we have set ourselves the goal of increasing the proportion of students with a higher level of achievement in the Estonian lifelong learning strategy. Therefore, we should have the same objectives in terms of selection of examination tasks and results. Despite the fact that we are the best in Europe, we must certainly continue to develop ourselves. Question 3: 'How much should the final exam of basic school be in line with that of a regular student in mathematics classes? " In general, we could certainly talk about coordination between the three aspects: these are what is done in an hour, what is written in the syllabus, and what is asked for in the final exam. All three could be compatible. The study programme will certainly be the basis for the preparation of the examination tasks. The compilers will be provided with topics and learning outcomes on which to raise questions. The tasks shall be tested before the examination is carried out in such a way as to prevent leakage. In the test work, the context of the task is sometimes changed. For example, when you talk about pears when you test, potatoes come to the exam. Before taking the exam, the work will be analysed as a whole by experts and schools will be allowed to assess the difficulty of the tasks and will be asked to explain how the content of the task or the order of work is understood. Innove has analysed the compliance of the examinations with the curriculum. The experts analysed the links between each task with the objectives of the curriculum's general competences and other subject competences, subjects covered by the curriculum, mathematics competences and the tertiary level of mathematics, as well as learning and education. The results of the analysis have been published on the website of the Foundation Innove. If necessary, the Ministry will kindly agree to direct the heirs to it. This analysis clearly showed that the final exams are in line with the curriculum and national objectives of increasing the proportion of practical and understanding skills. Question 4: "Who do you think is responsible for the poor results of the mathematics final exam and what further steps should be taken to improve the situation? ' The exam is certainly very important feedback to teachers, schools, schoolteachers, and the state. While the updated curriculum has been implemented, several bottlenecks have now emerged. They must be addressed by all parties involved. We analyze the causes of poor test results with the mathematics teacher class. The results of their pupils should, of course, also be analysed by school teachers themselves and, if necessary, be complementary to the day-to-day learning activities in cooperation with students. Nor should there be underestimation of teacher-to-teacher cooperation, since the development of mathematics competence is facilitated by the resolution of tasks with vital data from other subjects. The syllabus is the description of how specific learning content will be created, and a specific lesson will be provided. How it is delivered to the student in particular depends primarily on the teacher and, from a distance, also on teacher training. The Estonian Mathematical Society's Association of School Mathematics has decided to update the description of the study process. The Ministry of Education has proposed to the Community to critically review the content of further training as a mathematics teacher and to pay more attention in training to the design of general competences, problem-solving and the integration of subject with other subjects. Working groups are being set up to describe how and in relation to what modern methods and vital problems the substance must be taught. In addition, we have found that little guidance material has been developed during the implementation of the curriculum to support the mathematics teacher in integrating subjects. For this purpose, the first material for integrating mathematics with other subjects was prepared in the course of the change of the syllabus in the spring. The activities will continue so that this guidance material will be ready by 2015. On 1 September of this year, the innovations of the syllabus were implemented, with fewer subjects at the request of teachers and clearer links with the objectives and principles set out in the general part of the curriculum. These changes will hopefully allow the teacher to devote more time to linking content to other subjects and vital problems. The last question: 'It has been pointed out that the severity of the final exams is very uneven in different years. What solutions do you propose for the problem? ' Examination work includes tasks of varying degrees. The scope of the examination consists of approximately 20% recognition and understanding level tasks, 30% implementation level and about 50% analysis and synthesis level tasks. This distribution was due to the mathematics syllabus of the national curriculum in force at the time of the preparation of the exam paper, which stressed that the assessment of the learning outcomes of mathematics is based on knowledge processes and their hierarchical structure, and students' knowledge and skills are assessed at three levels: knowledge, implementation, and discussion. This principle of the design of the examination work has been followed in all years and has ensured a uniform degree of difficulty in the examination work. Basic knowledge, such as the Pythagorean Theorem, percentage, quadratic equation, spatial shape, is included every year in the exam assignments. The difference is only in the context of problems, i.e. in some years it is necessary to solve the equation purely, in the second year there is the same equation within the text problem, in some years the area of the flowerbed, in the second year the area of the kite. This means that the student must first identify the mathematical model, learn to find this mathematics in real, vital areas and situations, and apply the mathematics knowledge he has learned theoretically in solving practical questions. It takes more time to learn how to solve such relationships and real - life issues. Now that the scope of the curriculum has been reduced, teachers have more and more time to teach in classes how to use the formula in a variety of contexts. Teachers themselves estimate that the examination makes it just as difficult for students to find mathematics in the context. At the same time, it is a skill that needs to be taught and learned separately. It's easy to memorize a formula, but it's not in the text anymore. The latter, however, is clearly important in this context, which we have set as an educational policy objective in our country: the skills we have learned at school must not be merely theoretical memorized formulas or facts, but skills that students can practically apply afterwards. Teachers who test exam assignments in their classes at school also appreciate the difficulty of the task. Since our exam is a distinction, the tasks that all students solve when experimenting, or vice versa, which no one solves, are excluded from the exam work. At the same time, we can say that the difficulty of the exams corresponds quite well to the curriculum and to the way the school is taught, as the correlation between the exam results and the students' annual grades has been quite high year-on-year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U51	Questions for the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U52	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Otherwise, I wouldn't have asked, the answer is quite there, but I promised a number of familiar teachers who wanted a minister's answer that I would ask this question. People are interested that if we have the Ministry of Education, even the Ministry of Education and Research, why do they deal with curricula in parallel, I would say structures and do it for extra money. The same concerns the organisation and analysis of examinations. Is the Ministry short of people, qualified shots? Isn't there such a connection that if someone writes a curriculum, he's not interested in having a curriculum for 50 years, but in making more money in the near future by writing a new curriculum? Thank you, and I'm sorry that the question lasted a little over a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U53	Thank you. We have distributed competences in the field of education in such a way that implementing entities dealing with applied matters, such as state examinations and comprehensive school final exams, as well as language examinations, are the Foundation Innove. It also brings together the relevant competences. As regards the development of examination tasks, and also the process of drawing up the curricula that you have referred to, I generally consider it reasonable that such documents are not developed by ministerial officials, however competent they may be, but, above all, by the same teachers who teach each day at school and who therefore have the most adequate picture of what is actually happening in our schools. When we are talking, for example, about the process of updating syllabus, I am not quite sure how many teachers participated in this process, but it is possible to look at how inclusively and with all the parties involved, the plans for updating the syllabus were made. Finally, with the agreement of all parties, a great deal of work was done to reach the current agendas. The same applies to exams. Teachers who actually teach in schools are involved in the assessment of exams and the assembly of tasks, because they know best how to link the curriculum, the exam and the course. I see nothing wrong with this in principle, on the contrary, I think it is very positive that these processes are not being carried out by ministerial officials, but by specialists who teach locally at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U54	Thank you. The problem is serious. I certainly didn't mean to say there was no problem. Looking at the results of the mathematics state examination in the first year, when it was compulsory for everyone, the average exam result was 30 points and a little bit apart. It's actually pretty sad. I tried to explain in my answers what we think this poor result is coming from. We have switched to teaching not just mathematical formulas, but to trying to increase the possibilities for understanding the text, mathematics and real-life bonding. On the basis of this, test assignments have been drawn up to check whether we have acquired the ability to link formulas to the needs and problems of real life. We must admit that, unfortunately, in many schools, this change in the syllabus, which was reflected in the final exam's tasks, has not actually been reflected in the class. So the methodology of teaching mathematics has not taken sufficient account of this new curriculum approach, according to which the emphasis is not so much on memorizing the formula but more on solving practical problems. What I'm saying is, hopefully, it'll be better next year. As I said, we will also prepare guidance for schools on how they can achieve better results next time. On the other hand, it has to be said that this year's exam was not a surprise to anyone. The fact that such an exam would come was basically known to schools and teachers. This is a long process where everything is being negotiated, tasks are being tested, etc. With regard to children in particular, unfortunately, as a society, we are indeed at such a stage that the results are very rigorously assessed by the final exams, whether the state examinations or the comprehensive school final exams. In my opinion, this is basically not quite right. A child who does not achieve a specific score on an exam should not automatically be inferior. On the other hand, it is important for the state and society to provide honest feedback. Not specifically for children, but for schools that have not yet taught mathematics in a new way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U55	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a very simple question. How do you feel about whether this problem is more related to the administrative field and not all of it was thought out or set out, or whether it is still more related to the learning process and all the questions that were to be put in place in the learning process were not set out? Where is the weakest place, and why did the problems we are discussing arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U57	I don't know how to answer that to the end. There are also specific reasons for each case. If there is a question about a particular school, we can analyse separately and say what we think is the problem. However, the exam is quite different from three years ago, and the fact that it will be different should have been known to everyone. Perhaps not all teachers acknowledged that the exam would be a little different, as we are trying to highlight more precisely the practical and theoretical mathematics connection skills. It is possible that this approach has not been reached everywhere. It is possible that not all teachers were able to adapt well enough to the new curriculum in order to change their teaching methodology. I think the reasons for each particular situation are different. On the other hand, it is clear that if the exam is compulsory for everyone, it means that the exam will also be carried out by students who would otherwise not choose the exam and who may have worse results in this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U58	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U59	Thank you. Dear Minister, Mr Stalnukhin put forward the idea in his question that the syllabus could be done for 50 years, so that no one would profit from them and the costs would be lower. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U60	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I rarely go to the remote, but today the answers the Minister gave me were sad and a little angry. We have heard that the main objective of the ministry is not for children to receive good grades and parents to be satisfied, but for them the question is more about statistics, about which way this curve runs, and about finding out where they have made mistakes. My child, who took the ninth grade exam, had two mathematics teachers, one having a basic period where he studied, in addition to a further teacher who was the headmaster of another school. And when he gets the grade of three, as a father, I really don't know what to say to my kid. And if the minister here today made it clear that they are not counselors at the Ministry, then get counselors! Think about how children feel and what parents feel! It's sad when the Ministry doesn't think about it. However, I think that the Ministry is good for children to have good grades, and if the school is given a study programme for a year, the children learn by it and the grades are good for the class, then the exam should also have good grades. It is very, very sad to allow the current situation. Secondly, information has come to our attention that in many schools the study course was changed in half a year, or textbooks arrived much later, not when the academic year began. I think the teachers and the ministry should make quick moves here so that this does not occur. And the ministry could have thought about moving this curve, because the statistics you have shouldn't hurt others, especially children. Parents still, we can still find a way to justify this to our child. But if he's learned four references and the test results are bad, there's nothing more to say. I hope something changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U62	Would the Minister like to speak for the conclusion of the negotiations? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U63	Thank you. I would not now enter into a philosophical debate on whether the Estonian education system will improve or move towards irreversible decline. With a few sentences, however, I would like to comment on what the last speaker said. I think that the aim of the ministry and, more generally, of the Estonian education system should not be good grades but good skills. There is one very simple way to get good grades: we give everyone the exams and everyone does them after the reference. That is not the goal. The goal is that students' skills match what is needed in life today. To this end, we have also changed the system, including the mathematics syllabus, which is based on this exam as well. Now, during this transitional period, where, despite efforts and a very clear understanding that the exam will be a little different, we can see that these skills have not been brought into line with what we have expected. Consequently, poor grades have also been obtained. I say that as a society, we could stop valuing the test results in the way we have done so far that the exams are to punish or highlight the individual. That's not what they're for! Take the same PISA test, the biggest international educational outcomes assessment test that doesn't score! No grades are given, but nevertheless, the test is extremely valuable to plan educational policy activities. The main idea and task of state examinations and final exams in the country is to give feedback to the teacher on how he has handled specific tasks, to teach specific students, to give feedback to the state on what skills are needed and to what extent they have been achieved in different schools. This way we can give feedback to schools, we can support them, we can plan teacher training. Yes, one part of all of this is that students also receive grades, but this is not the most important aspect of examination in my opinion, but the least important. And that's what you could tell your kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U64	I will close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U65	Ladies and gentlemen, Probably some of you know I'm a philologist, but hardly anyone has ever heard that I'm a bit of a mathematician. Three and a half courses of theoretical mathematics were once studied at the University of Tartu. In the old days, it was called unfinished higher education, and now it doesn't cost anything. But there were some experiences. In the third course, I went to the probability theory exam, and for life I remembered a faculty named Kaljurand. He was loved by all the students, he was a very intelligent and soft person. They told me to think about what you're saying, but when you're ready, you can write off random, he doesn't look at anything. I wrote it down and I went to answer. The man looked at the evidence of a written down theorem from the textbook and said he wasn't okay with it. And he let me go. It was this morning. I went to the dorm, and my friends and I found another version of the same substance. It turned out there was another option. I memorized it, I went to the university, the man sat me down, I wrote it, he looked at the proof, and he said it wasn't good enough for him, it's not interesting. I went to the dorm again. To make sense, the mathematicians' dorm was 14th Street of Tiigi in Tartu, from where the mathematics department was 200 meters. We had a brilliant boy from Kiev, Gennadi. We offered him half an hour to figure it out. I didn't think yet. I didn't know how serious this whole thing was. He figured out a new proof, went back to the quadrant, and I failed again. We put our heads together four times, four times, completely new and from our brains. I went back to the quadrant. Kaljurand said no, sit down, man, here's a sheet of paper and a pen, start thinking. And the fifth option came. When he saw it, he said that he had never seen one of these before, that it was interesting, it was mathematically quite stupid, but very interesting in development. Why am I telling you this? In time, mathematics was taught to develop thinking, thinking ability, logic, space vision, etc. Mathematics is now being taught so that six apples can be distributed correctly between three people. The way mathematics teaching has gone down, I'm offering you to look at how it's changed. I graduated from middle school 38 years ago, then there were eight grades in middle school. Take up the 1970s mathematics textbook, there was another geometry textbook, and look at the topics at the time in the year of graduating from primary school. And then pick up today's 9th grade textbook. You're gonna cry. If you understand anything, you'll understand that we've been moving down for years. Today, it is not a task to pull a person out of his hall, to teach him everything that can be taught in mathematics. On the contrary, we find such a way of achieving a situation where three are insured for each of us by means of minimal efforts. And every year, this level goes down, goes down, goes down. If you think this is possible forever, then it is not, the limit is already here. At present there is a problem for many children in the 7th, 8th grade, how to calculate percentages and perform other simple arithmetical operations. They blame them for being computers and calculators, so they're calculated. No tables are reported, 7 x 8 seems to be a problem if the calculator or phone is not available. I mean, the big problem is not so much the result of this exam as the decline in school specifically in mathematics teaching. All this narrow and wide program, all these reliefs, all those simplifications that are always being proposed. This is, of course, normal in a consumer society. If most people want to have this kind of mathematics program, it will be, but there is absolutely nothing good about it. If you look at those old textbooks that I suggest you do, even though you don't find the books of the 1970s funny anymore, you understand what I'm talking about. The level has just fallen enormously. Since I still have a minute and a half, I want to tell you that it's not just about mathematics, it's about the system. You know, lately, I was really embarrassed. Narva came from Russia with a TV station brigade. They filmed the city, and since I couldn't meet them right away, they walked the city for two hours. This man, who had come from Tallinn with them, said to me: "Hey, it's so great to listen, for the last half hour they're only saying that 97% of non-Estonians live in this town, as decent and beautiful as pure fantastic! Then a girl asked if she could go to the bathroom somewhere, it was in Narva's Dark Garden. I said that it would probably be the easiest time for him to go to Narva College, University of Tartu. He went there, and when he came back, he had ten volumes of Chekhov with him. I looked, there was a library stamp inside. He just took them off the stairs. Chekhov is no longer needed in college, where Russians mainly study. These books are just thrown out of the library on the stairs, so whoever wants to take it. This decline is everywhere and in every subject, not only in mathematics, but unfortunately, there isn't much to improve here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U66	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. How should parents explain to their children that while they had been four or five in mathematics so far, many received a grade of three on the exam? You might think it's a lot of trauma for kids if they don't get a good grade, even though they've been studying for the exam. It's like what you're saying, it's not like there wasn't a big problem, but it was. Should I have told my kid that I was sorry, but that's the way we've done our exam assignments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You certainly got such an overview before the test results were announced in the public space that at times more than half of the graduates have failed. As a minister, in collaboration with the Foundation Innove, did you also consider the possibility of moving the curve upwards so that those students who may have received unexpectedly poor grades could have received, say, a grade corresponding to the level they have learned so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U69	Thank you. The question is what such a change would achieve. The aspect raised by Urbo Vaarmanni, member of the Riigikogu, is certainly important and these students would probably feel better. But it wouldn't do any good. If we artificially devalued the test results, I think it would give the wrong signal that things are somehow better than they are. Things are really bad, and all parties must draw their own conclusions from this. Hopefully, next year our results will be better. As I was referring to, failure in this final exam does not mean failure to complete comprehensive school. It is possible to take a school exam, where performance rates are generally higher, and there are other options. So I would treat these results as a very important signal of the shortcomings in the teaching of mathematics, all of which go to teachers, schools, schoolchildren and the Ministry of Education have to draw their own conclusions. I hope that these results will be significantly better next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U70	Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd like to ask you again. You did not answer Mr Vaarmanni's question, which then you would answer to the children, the students who studied for five and four, but the exam got three. What do you want to tell them? Who, after all, is to blame for the fact that these changes came in the middle of the year and the results were such?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U72	Thank you. The changes did not come in the middle of the year, it was known for a long time that from 2011 the syllabus changed. It was known that this year the 9th graders would be evaluated on the basis of a new curriculum. These questions were discussed in the course of the examination, with the emphasis on those involved, including school teachers, there was no surprise. The fact that the results are worse once again depends very much on the school, which was the reason for the poor results in a particular school. I don't know who's responsible in any particular case. Nor am I a family counselor. How can you explain to your child that the exam has failed? I think that depending on what the reasons are, each family also has its own strategies and ways of doing it. Sometimes the exam simply fails, despite the fact that the exam tasks are always the same, just doesn't come out. Well, that's what happens, isn't it, to all of us?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U74	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I wanted to ask my question in a slightly different way, but according to your answers, I'm in between. On the one hand, practitioners, or mathematics teachers, say that the tasks and curriculum do not add up. Listening to you is all right. I don't know who's telling the truth and who's not. But you were asked to ask that since you gave three Estonian lessons last week, do you intend to take some mathematics lessons in the coming months?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U75	Thank you. In answer to the last question, I say that there is no plan. When it comes to the compliance of the exam with the curriculum, it's not my assessment. Here is an analysis, which is available from Innove's website, we can also guide you more closely on how to find it, where the exams have been assessed to match the curriculum, and found that the work corresponds to the curriculum. True, this time less teachers were satisfied with the exam than they did last year when more than half of the teachers were either satisfied or very satisfied with the test. On the other hand, this very inadequate readiness for such a test work, despite the fact that the syllabus has long been adopted, probably resulted in some teachers being dissatisfied with the test assignments. But yes, I'm not going to teach math. If I were to add another answer to the previous question as to what to say to the child, I would say that it would be okay if one of the national exams failed. The purpose of the national exam is not to punish the child, but to give feedback more broadly to the teacher, school and educational system on how mathematics or any subject goes with teaching. The evaluation of a specific student is certainly secondary to the Ministry of Education, since the main responsible for achieving learning outcomes is still a teacher and a school. The examination compares, in particular, how the teaching process has progressed in different schools, different classes. We certainly have not set ourselves the goal of punishing children, and there could be less of this type of assessment in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U76	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U77	Within the education system, repeated calls have been made to stop reform so that there can be peace, because at present no flights have completed in Estonia on the basis of the same curriculum; this is true. My answer is that I won't see it happening in the next few years. The world is evolving around us, and our own society is evolving at an enormous rate. If we lock down the learning content even for ten years, we will train people whose skills and knowledge no longer meet the needs of today's labour market. Changes in the education system really require constant learning from all parties and doing otherwise, but unfortunately, I do not think there is a way out of it. We are trying to make all the changes in the ministry with maximum thoughtful, negotiated and longer notice, but the fact that the content of the study must constantly change is, in my opinion, inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U78	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U79	Next we will have an inquiry into the future of Põltsamaa Vocational School, presented by Mailis Reps, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Korb, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Siret Kotka, Marika Tuus-Laul and Priit Toobal. On behalf of the heirs, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The inquiry was motivated by concerns about the future of our quite historical and symbolic school, the successor of the Estonian Alexander School, Põltsamaa Vocational School. Especially after the media was able to hear the explanations of a senior official of the Ministry of Education and Research, how part of the curricula will be transferred to Järvamaa School of Education and Vocational Education and Training, all the preparations have been made to close Põltsamaa Vocational School step by step. As a result, we decided to ask the Minister questions to clarify the future of this school and, more importantly, to find out whether the Ministry was planning to close a few more vocational schools under the school network plan. Indeed, if we look at what the head of the Vocational Training Department of the Ministry of Education and Research has said in the media, it is not officially closed down to Põltsamaa Vocational School, but it is connected to Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. At the same time, from 1 September 2015, new students will no longer be admitted in Põltsamaa and the only curriculum of the social care curriculum that currently does not exist in Järvamaa will be transferred to the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. If we look at why this is being done, the first reason is that Põltsamaa has not invested enough. At the same time, a new boiler house has been built there and considerable investments have been made, but of course more have been made in Järvamaa. The second question has been that about 300 students are the limit from which it makes sense to have a school. This condition is met in Põltsamaa because, according to EHIS, 384 students are there. As a result, we have asked questions about the future of Põltsamaa Vocational School. We are interested in more precisely why the Ministry has decided to close the school so unexpectedly and from which sources the ministry's data on the number of students are available. Indeed, the Ministry has spoken of less than 300 vocational schools as unsustainable, while more than 300 students actually study there. A school with a long history has a very strong community. Anyone who has ever attended Põltsamaa Vocational School events knows how much the alumni keep this school. The school has an internship base and quite a lot of investments have been made. That's why we're curious about the plans for Põltsamaa school. Finally, we would like the Minister to give an overview of what plans are still in place regarding the vocational education network, so that such plans for restructuring the school network do not come unexpectedly to the school family. It has been said quite recently that the VET network is basically in place and there will be no major changes, but now many small VET schools around Põltsamaa Vocational School as a large educational centre have been concerned. As the Minister certainly knows, there are small vocational schools all over Estonia in many other places, and closing one school also worries others. So it would be nice to hear what other plans are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U81	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U82	Dear heirs, members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer your question. In general, this situation is rather sad when it comes to schools, especially outside county centres, in Estonia. And, unfortunately, this is not due to the wishes or priorities of the Ministry of Education, but to the fact that the number of students in Estonia is decreasing. So far, this number has fallen strongly in primary schools, and now the fall in primary school is over. Today we see this decline in upper secondary schools and vocational secondary education, followed by university and post-secondary vocational training. As a result, it is certainly important to look at the number of students that we have made in schools across Estonia, especially in public schools, where we can directly influence these decisions. We must also admit that the forecasts made in the middle of the first decade of this century, including the number of vocational students, have not materialised. When this network was put in place, it was assumed that there would be significantly more students going to vocational schools than they actually did at the time. What happened in the meantime? Even fewer students have started going to vocational schools. This trend, coupled with a general reduction in the number of students, puts a great deal of pressure on the functioning of vocational schools, since a smaller number of students are more expensive to teach, and the cost of a student place is higher. At one point, there is certainly a legitimate question as to whether such an arrangement can guarantee the highest level of education. Now to Põltsamaa. Various decisions were made in Põltsamaa before my ministerial term. Already on 6 March 2014 was the first meeting of the Põltsamaa Upper Secondary School and Põltsamaa Vocational School. Põltsamaa is currently one of the few Estonian cities where there is both a vocational school or vocational school and a secondary school in the immediate neighbourhood. Looking at the forecast for the number of students until 2020, we saw that there are few students in Põltsamaa to attend two schools. At the same time, in order to be able to continue the profession, considerable investment was needed in its corps. As indicated, the internship base and boiler house had been renovated in the past, but nearly EUR 8 million should have been invested in a student home and a study building. In this context, the opportunity was sought to combine the upper secondary school part of the Põltsamaa Common Secondary School with the Põltsamaa Vocational School in order to provide students with the most diverse education, on the one hand, upper secondary school education, on the other hand, and vocational education. On 20 May 2014, the City Council of Põltsamaa decided that the Põltsamaa Common Gymnasium will continue as a 12-class school owned by the city, that the upper secondary school part will not be transferred to the state, nor will the school be merged with the vocational school. It was the decision of the local community. If we look at the structure of Põltsamaa Vocational School students, only half of them come from Jõgevamaa, Põltsamaa even less. A large number of those who have studied there in cooperation with the Põltsamaa Common Secondary School have been students with educational difficulties 7. to class. Thus, the city of Põltsamaa said that they did not want to cooperate with the vocational school in this context; they wanted to continue as a joint secondary school. In doing so, the plan to ensure the sustainability of the professional school proposed by the Ministry failed because the community of Põltsamaa decided that they wanted to hold a secondary school. It's a legitimate community decision in every way. Põltsamaa Common Secondary School also has enough students to hold the upper secondary school. Following this decision, HTM took the position that the state must analyse the future of the school network as a whole in light of this decision, including the organisation of vocational education in the triangles of Põltsamaa, Paide and Türi. Knowing that the number of Põltsamaa Vocational School students is too low in the long term, the development of the Vocational School in the design phase, i.e. the Väike-Kamar school building and the construction of the dormitory building, was suspended, given the current trends of the professional school and without additional students from the city of Põltsamaa. It was indeed my decision to channel these EUR 8 million into other vocational education projects. Given the number of students forecast and the fact that no other way of ensuring the sustainability of this school was found, I find it irresponsible to spend EUR 8 million in infrastructure, which in five years' time will most likely be empty or half empty, as has already happened in several vocational schools. On 30 May, representatives of the Ministry of Education presented these developments and views on the spot to representatives of both the vocational school and local government. So it can't be said that the decision was somehow unexpected and born in silence in the office. We've been over this. On the other hand, the decision to close the school has not been taken, and it is not currently planned. We have planned to join the Põltsamaa Vocational School Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre in the first stage and continue our studies in Põltsamaa until there are enough students. The up-to-date workshop should continue to be used anyway until at least April 2019 to prevent the return of the investment to the European Union. Real integration of schools is possible from the autumn of 2015, which leaves sufficient time for planning and implementing restructuring activities. At this point, I would like to highlight an emotional important topic, namely the subject of the Aleksander School building. Once again, I have not been involved in these decisions, but also in the new project, which has now been suspended due to the investment of this EUR 8 million in Põltsamaa Vocational School, it was not planned to renovate the alexander school building. It would have been used as a replacement for as long as reconstruction would have taken place. After that, the building would have stopped empty anyway. It is quite obvious that this dignified building should be used. I hope that, in cooperation with the local community, we will succeed. The second question: "From what sources do the Ministry of Põltsamaa Vocational School produce data on the number of students and on what are future forecasts based? " There have indeed been some differences of opinion about the number of students in Põltsamaa Vocational School. This data can be taken out at different times and therefore interpreted differently. It should be taken into account that the actual number of school students at some point differs from the number of training places for the national training order, which is calculated as the average of the calendar year. This means that the number of participants in vocational training is constantly changing over the calendar year due to the different lengths of curricula and therefore it is more appropriate to look at average figures rather than monthly data. In January 2013, in Põltsamaa, there really were 378 students in graduate education and 30 students in vocational training at comprehensive school and upper secondary school, but in March 2013 there were only 288 students. As of 15.09.2013, 334 students studied there and, according to the latest data taken out on 8 October, 306 students study at the vocational school. So the data will depend on a specific month, the length of the curricula and the number of graduates. But it's clear that generally the numbers tend to be 300 border countries, at some point a little bit, at some point a little bit below that. The number of students in Estonia as a whole, especially outside Tallinn and Tartu, is also decreasing and therefore the shortage of students is mainly affected by schools located outside county centres. While in Estonia as a whole, the number of vocational training students has fallen by 9% over the last five years, students have fallen by 35% in Põltsamaa Vocational School. 2009/2010. There were 509 students in the academic year, with an average of 330 students last year. Põltsamaa Vocational School's 2014 public training order is 350 places, execution as of September 312, or 89%. Thus, the GNP is planned to be lower in 2014 than in the previous year and is still less than 100%. The training order has decreased by 31% between 2009 and 2014. The decrease in the number of students at Põltsamaa Vocational School has also reduced the school's budget, which is the sad inevitable result of this decrease. The total reduction in the school budget for 2011-2014 is 18.5%. The share of labour costs in the budget has increased from 74.5% to 83.4%, due to the increased cost of training small groups and the proportional increase in administrative expenditure in the budget. As a result of the drop in the number of students, the cost of learning has also been estimated: in four years these costs have decreased by 42.2% and we can say that this has certainly had an impact on the quality of education as well. As a result, the Ministry has taken the view that as an independent school, Põltsamaa Vocational School is not sustainable in the long term and that it is necessary to organise teaching in cooperation with other vocational training institutions to ensure learning opportunities in the region. At the same time, the decision of the City Council of Põltsamaa maintains a secondary school in Põltsamaa. Question 3: 'Which figures or estimates make it better to open new specializations in Järvamaa? ' The specialties taught at Põltsamaa Vocational School overlap with those taught at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, with the exception of one exception, which was also referred to as social work and counselling. At the same time, there is still a need to train care workers in both Jõgeva and Järva counties, and therefore there is no reason to talk about opening up new specialties in Järvamaa, but more extensive use of existing training competences in the Central Estonian region. The school network in Central Estonia is actually quite impressive to ensure that pupils in the Põltsamaa region have access to education. The nearest vocational schools in Põltsamaa are in addition to Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, which is 45 km from Põltsamaa, Olustvere Service and Rural Economy School (35 km), Viljandi Vocational Training Centre (50 km), Luua Forestry School (48 km) and Tartu Vocational Education Centre (60 km). There is also Jõgeva State High School 30 km from upper secondary schools. Unlike Põltsamaa Vocational School, Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre has made the necessary investments, and all Põltsamaa Vocational School students are guaranteed good study and living conditions there. As has been pointed out, the training capacity of Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre has been heavily overplanned in making investments. Against this background, it is certainly a good thing that the investments already made could be used to a greater extent. A new internship building already built in Põltsamaa is planned to establish a regional training centre that can be used both by Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre and other vocational training institutions. Question 4: "Why is the Ministry not working on development plans and which schools do you decide to close unexpectedly? ' Merging the Põltsamaa Vocational School with the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, which was before Paide Vocational Secondary School, together with maintaining training opportunities in both Põltsamaa and Paide, was already planned for the restructuring of the national VET network for 2005-2008. The reasons for this restructuring were the same as today: too small number of residents and potential learners in Jõgeva and Järva counties and duplicated specialties. The restructuring was not carried out for two main reasons. First, there were strong hopes for Põltsamaa Vocational School to become a training centre for young people with special needs, mainly targeting young people with education and learning difficulties in Central Estonia and South Estonia without basic education, as well as other HEV students. Unfortunately, these hopes have not been realized to the extent expected today, as HEV students often prefer to study in a secondary school close to their home, especially because their parents want to do so or because they do not continue their studies at all after primary school. Another reason why this decision was not taken at the time was that there was no necessary political readiness. The county elders and ministers at the time did not support the consolidation across the county borders, claiming that it would not work. Between 2009 and 2013, the focus was on developing training places and modernising infrastructure in the established school network. Only two important changes took place on the national VET network, which is the merger of Paide Vocational Secondary School and Türi Technical and Rural Economy School in the Central Estonia region. So we can generally say that we would certainly like to take the decisions of the school network that were once made, but if some decisions were not made then they must be taken once. On the other hand, there is nothing to be done about the number of vocational students, the success of the popularisation of vocational education, etc., but, unfortunately, much better results were expected at the time than we are seeing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U83	Questions for the Minister. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, in 2005, the Minister did not wish to close this school and I take full responsibility for not shutting down Põltsamaa Vocational School at the time. I wouldn't do that now if it was my choice. Let us think about these small schools, some of which you have already mentioned today. In the same area there are, for example, Olustvere and Luua School, if you go further, then there is Kehtna, there is Vigala. We can circle Estonia, because there are more of those fine little vocational schools with 200-300 students. Do you also take the attitude that a few years ago was taken by a respected minister who has now gone to a non-political landscape, that the only sustainable school is a vocational education centre and that there would be six-seven in Estonia. Would that be enough for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U85	As Estonia is small enough, I think that in addition to the general concept, the decision on each particular school should be considered very carefully, individually from different angles. The question is not that we are drawing up some big national concept, and by that we will hit everyone with one tree. I think it's wrong, and that's not the way to do it. Each specific decision must be considered separately, including consideration of its content, educational aspects, as well as regional policy and emotional aspects, which are certainly always there. As far as smaller vocational schools are concerned, we take Olustvere School, for example, it is certainly a very good school. But one important reason why Olustvere School is such a good school in terms of the content of education is that it has very clearly profiled itself in one particular direction. By doing so, he has also been able to win clear support for entrepreneurship, creating a strong link with specific entrepreneurs who trust the education they provide there. And I think that's what has ensured sustainability. For example, when we look at the evaluation of our own vocational training programmes, in general these schools, where such focus is strong, have also received the best grades. When we are talking about county vocational education centres, they are indeed broader, the spectrum of the specialties taught there is much wider and it is possible to get there in a slightly different way. In the case of smaller schools, I believe that such focus and profiling are essential for these schools to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U86	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U87	Good manager, good minister! You spoke earlier that the decision to close Põltsamaa Vocational School came first of all from the fact that the state did not acquire ownership of the Põltsamaa Common Gymnasium. Honestly, it's a little strange to hear. My question is, why can't you see that Põltsamaa Vocational School and Põltsamaa Common Gymnasium can work together? The upper secondary school would then be owned by the local government and the vocational school would be state-owned. Why can't the state and local government work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U88	It can and will be done. But the problem is these same infrastructure investments. The city of Põltsamaa has a number of educational infrastructure that needs to be modernised, and the school has a number of educational infrastructure that needs to be modernised. Our proposal was that the two schools could agree among themselves where and how they could provide education on a common ground so that the use of the surface would be optimal. This could not be agreed. The question is not whether the upper secondary school part of the school is transferred to the state or not. The question is whether it can be agreed that action will take place on a common ground. This agreement was not born at local level. The city of Põltsamaa wishes to further develop its educational infrastructure in the centre of Põltsamaa according to its needs, and this means that the construction of a replicating educational infrastructure two kilometres from Põltsamaa is not financially responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U89	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Põltsamaa community has made its decision, and they have a perfectly legitimate right to do so. But the problem is access to education, and not in the future, but also now. At several meetings, people have told us that this vocational training facility is here or there, but it is a great concern how children get to and from school. Sometimes you have to sit down several times. And here comes social problems, some kids disappear somewhere along the way, and so on. In the course of these changes and planning for the future, have you received support from other ministries on how to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U91	Thank you. As I was referring to, the decision to close school is not even a decision to make. We will gradually unite these vocational training institutions so that it is possible to teach students at the current places of study of the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre as well as in Põltsamaa. If the number of students falls below the critical limit, or if students want to study and live in today's learning complex themselves, then the following decisions can be made: We are aware that there is currently one specific target group at Põltsamaa Vocational School, whose order of magnitude is, by memory, about 50 students, no, 30 students who are actually at the Põltsamaa Common Gymnasium 7. students with school education or learning difficulties and who receive vocational training in a vocational school. There is a need to find a solution for their educational future, and that is certainly the solution we are looking for. However, there is still some time before possible restructuring, when they come at one point, so that we can also reach concrete agreements on how and where these children will continue their studies. In other respects, the social system of vocational education and training, although with some of its bottlenecks, still works. Students in general, those who are post-secondary vocational students, like the majority in Põltsamaa Vocational School, receive travel allowance and also school food allowance. So basically, support services at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre or any other vocational education centre they should choose for their studies are guaranteed. Of course, things can be done much better in this regard, and hopefully by the time some decisions are made in Põltsamaa, the social support system for vocational students will also be significantly better than it has been so far. But there's no one left outside the school door, that's definitely not gonna happen. All students who have entered now will be able to complete their studies, which is guaranteed by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U92	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U93	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was listening to your responses to Radio 4 this morning on the subject of opening a comprehensive school in Sinimägi. I had a question about where you said that there was such an idea that there must be a comprehensive school in every municipality. I asked myself if it was reasonable and even possible to do so. Let's say, small parishes with 350 people living there, do you need a school or not? That's a big question. However, in connection with the integration of Põltsamaa Vocational School with Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, where people working there and their children go, I ask you whether there should be a vocational school in every county.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U94	In general, this direction has been followed when planning and building a network of vocational education and training centres. But on the other hand, our counties are very different. We have, for example, one such great county as Hiiumaa, where there are very few people, but there are also attempts to ensure as many educational opportunities as possible. I would reply in this way that if there is no learning opportunity in the home country, in the village or town where the person is living, then the state must certainly be able to say where he can learn what he wants to learn and how he gets there. This should certainly be guaranteed by the State. And in general, where there are enough students, there are certainly plenty of opportunities for vocational education, general education and higher education. So I say again that I believe that such national concepts are important in Estonia, but on the other hand, we need to look at each case in concrete terms. We're small enough to be able to do it well enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U95	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, A good school has several offspring. The Olustvere school certainly considers itself to be one of the descendants of Alexander's school. But my question is about your repeated claim that Põltsamaa Vocational School will not be closed, not eliminated, but merged. We know a lot of connections from before. For example, the School of Blossom and Olustvere was merged and the activities were concentrated in Olustverre, bases were built. At the same time, at Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre, Särevere and Türi schools were merged, which remained in two different places. I am saying that there are currently uncertainties in both municipalities, there are certain tensions about where the school will still be. Such amphibianity has led to irrationality. Now we add Põltsamaa School to the centres in Särevere and Paide in Järvamaa. Do you think that as a result of this addition, the Järvamaa centre will continue to work as a three-headed dragon instead of a two-headed dragon, or will the activity be concentrated later, as in the case of Olustvere, in a single center? What is your vision of this unification?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U97	As I said, the decision to suspend Põltsamaa Vocational School investments was based on the fact that the forecasts for the number of students, especially after possible cooperation with Põltsamaa City failed, showed that this school was not sustainable in the long term. Burying 8 million schools in this situation, which in five years' time will probably be one hundred students on the border, is not, in my opinion, responsible. This means that the infrastructure of the Põltsamaa Vocational School, which concerns the student home and study facilities, certainly does not meet the requirements of the normal learning environment of the 21st century. Consequently, I think that at one point, if the students who are currently studying there have other learning opportunities or have graduated from this school, the question arises as to whether the Põltsamaa study place or Väike-Kamar study place should be closed, i.e. the study activity should be concentrated in Paide, Säreverre or both at the same time. So that's a separate decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U98	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski! Now, let's open the negotiations. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U99	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry was motivated by two reasons. The first is that we really care what the future brings to Põltsamaa Vocational School, and it is certainly important for the school family to know what they have to expect. After all, we might call the integration of the Põltsamaa Vocational School into the Järvamaa Centre, but in fact the minister already said that if there were no investments in one place and no curricula were opened there from 1 September, it is clear that within about a year or two the critical limit will arrive and this school will be closed. As far as traineeships are concerned, to Europe we all know how to write papers. We have such a historical background that we have learned to write various documents for quite several decades. So Europe will see how we will continue this practice. As far as the sustainability of the school is concerned, it is certainly possible to look at it the same way and the other way. Ten years ago, we also predicted that small schools could not survive, and almost every county closed down a lot of vocational schools. I dare say at this point that, as Minister for Education and Science at the time, I also had to decide what would become of these small schools, and we took a clear political stance that small school had the right to live, giving them the opportunity to find their niche. Very many vocational schools found their niche, which was teaching children with special needs. Thanks to these small vocational schools, a completely new concept came into vocational education, according to which young people with very special needs, such as learners on the basis of a living curriculum, were given the opportunity to receive education, work experience and practice. These little schools really messed with a very heavy contingent. For example, Põltsamaa Vocational School was the one who brought Estonia and successfully implemented the concept of education for young people without basic education. The legislation didn't catch up until later. In fact, for several years in Põltsamaa, young people without basic education had been given so-called informal education before we came for us. The Riigikogu followed four or five years later. Bringing small schools together can be financially effective, it may even be wise in a big picture, but I am still very concerned that we are losing out on such differences and taking into account special needs. Of course, groups of children with special needs will also be opened in large schools, but such selfless searches to find the specific features of their school certainly do not need to be carried out by large centres. With regard to the question raised today of how Järvamaa Centre will manage, I believe that Järvamaa is difficult because it has several heads, but it will certainly manage. The centre of Järvamaa has been a very capable school and will certainly be at least as capable in the future. He has also received very good investments. I have absolutely no doubt about that. However, I encourage the Minister to reconsider the decision to close and fast-track Põltsamaa Vocational School. I particularly encourage not to take the next steps, because there are still many small niche schools and they have survived precisely because they have, say, tried, against all laws of nature to find ways to get their own pupils and survive, and they have also found students who might not otherwise be dealt with. I believe the same is true of connecting the school and Järvamaa centre in Põltsamaa. Those teachers who would like to mess with a difficult student, usually a young man, often pick him up at home are quite difficult to find.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U100	Shall we extend the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U101	No, I'm fine, thank you. So please consider this decision again! Maybe this isn't the smartest decision, and maybe you shouldn't rush it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U102	Thank you. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The debate on this item is also exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U103	The next item is Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Enn Eesmaa, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Siret Kotka, Mikhail Korbi and Mailis Repsi's request to the Minister of Social Protection Helmen Kütti on 9 September 2014. On behalf of the inquisitors, I ask for the chair of Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, As an introduction to this inquiry, I will try to paint a picture that is currently ruling in Estonia, if you travel around as a MP and go to halls or meetings where there are people who have just retired, who maybe are planning a pension or have been on retirement for a few or three years. You may see many among those who have, as if, frightened, as if they were defeated and disappointed, because they all have the same problem. They have been honest workers, worked for many years, 35 years, 38 years, 40 years, and some more. However, when they come to their local pension institution to complete their old-age leave, they suddenly experience an awfully unpleasant news that, instead of 40 years, they have pensionable periods, pensionable years maybe 20 or 18 or 22, depending on the case. It's so tragic for someone who's lived for years knowing he's about to get a normal pension. Suddenly there's a big bang for the whole family, maybe even the family, that you see, Mom, Dad, Grandma or Grandpa gets half as much money as they thought. So, what's the problem? This is long-known and for years the so-called one for the three that the Centre Party has opposed for as many years as this time we have been in force. And in order to be clearer, I quote the question, which has been signed by 12 delegates: 'In determining old age pensions, the share of the insurance unit increases from year to year. This means that public old-age pensions are increasingly dependent on the amount of social tax paid for a particular person. If the social tax is paid on average on remuneration, the annual coefficient is 1.0. If a person earns less than the average salary, the coefficient is less than 1.0. " And when a person earns a higher salary, that coefficient is higher. Here's what's misleading people. They have not counted their wages as much as they have worked for years. However, the number of years of retirement is derived from the amount of salary or social tax, and this is where major and major disappointments arise. Our inquiry specifically states: "Very many people who are committed to society and whose incomes are not high must accept a lower pension. This, in turn, is extremely unfair because in real life, a kindergarten teacher who loves his job cannot compete with a person working in the financial sector. ' This time, unfortunately, we're running and it looks like it's gonna last. I've never seen or heard of a government coalition trying to make a difference. But this is an extremely unfair situation. We have some questions about this for Mrs Helmen Hunter, and maybe she'll answer us. When he was sitting in this very hall as a vigilante, I think he was thinking more or less the same way as I am now. Now, as a minister, it is, of course, difficult for him to answer, but he is not the author of these Lawyers either, they were never made before, during the second Mart Laari government or a little later. So we have this problem. There are a huge number of very unhappy people in Estonia who have hoped that they will receive a normal pension, but they will not. What is particularly sad about it is that these are people who are dedicated to their work. They have done easier work on land, have been postmen, have been village school teachers, maybe mechanics and, of course, especially teachers, kindergarten teachers or kindergarten teachers. So, Minister, somehow try to answer us and give us some hope! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U105	The Social Protection Minister Helmen Kütt will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U106	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm gonna read the question out and then I'm gonna answer it, it's gonna be easier. As Riigikogu member Heimar Lenk started by being a previously adopted law, for clarification and the sake of the verbatim, I would say so much more that the State Pension Insurance Act was adopted on 26 June 1998 and entered into force on 1 January 2000. I note that paragraphs 20, 28 to 34, 47 and 54 entered into force on 1 January 1999, but they were in principle implementing acts. Since 1 January 2000, the amount of the pension depends predominantly on the salary. It was said here that the difference between the minimum wage or the minimum wage and the average wage is about three times the difference and that this coefficient of 0.3 raises questions. It is true that such a pension point is really counted according to the average salary, but the fact that the year is a year, that is, one year of work means one year of retirement. We have unfortunately remained in law a concept such as the annual coefficient which, in Germany and England, is actually a retirement point. The year is a year and who has worked for 50 years, its retirement age is 50 years. However, his salary depends on his salary. I will now begin to answer the questions that have been asked. The first question: 'Why do you think it's fair that in Estonia, the amount of income is considered to be an indicator of a person's contribution to work? ' The Estonian pension system is a system based on the principle of solidarity and is financed on an ongoing basis, which means that today's pensioners are paid a pension from the social tax paid for today's employees. Solidarity in the pension system is reflected in both intergenerational and intergenerational redistribution. Each generation supports the previous generation, while the rights of current pensioners for retirement depend on their contribution to supporting the previous generation. There will also be a redistribution from higher-wage earners to lower-wage earners. One of the reasons why the state participates in guaranteeing pensions is the need to protect people from poverty in old age through redistribution. The serious question is how much redistribution between pensioners should be. The motivation and interests of both those on high pay and those on low pay should be taken into account. The state old-age pension consists of three components: the basic part, the qualifying share and the insurance component. The three components have a different degree of solidarity. The basic amount is 100% solidarity-based and represents 1/3 of the average old-age pension. There is a complete lack of solidarity in the insurance component that has been in place since 1999, as it depends on 100% of the person's pre-retirement salary. The solidarity of the service unit is between the two, because the size of the unit depends on the time of work, but not on the size of the salary. In addition to the national old-age pension, the so-called first pillar of the Estonian pension system since 2002 is also a compulsory funded pension, the so-called second pillar, which is now gaining strength and is likely to become a significant part of the state pension insurance. There is no solidarity in compulsory funded pension, its size depends on the person's salary. As our young pension system is constantly evolving and the degree of solidarity in it changes depending on the share of the first and second pillars, as well as the change in the share of the first pillar, the system needs to be constantly monitored and analysed. National demographic, social and economic developments also have a significant impact on the pension system. The second question: 'When is the government going to change the system of indexing the pension insurance unit? ' In order to preserve the solidarity of the pension system, starting in 2008, the base part of the pension is indexed annually with a 10% higher index and the annual pension grade 10% lower than the national pension index approved by the Government of the Republic. The Government will propose to the Riigikogu to change the system if the analyses show such a need. As a matter of fact, there's a bill in the Ministry of Social Affairs that we're going to the government with. In order to ensure that people's sense of justice is no longer violated, the concept of "age year" and "pension point" will be used. However, the fact that the pension depends on salary is not currently planned to change. In fact, it is the case across Europe that people who earn more also have a higher pension. The third question: 'Very many people are concerned and confused about a situation where, due to the social tax paid on wages, one year worked does not count with an annual coefficient of 1,0. What is your vision of a pension system that guarantees equal opportunities for all good workers? " As I began to answer questions, I say that every year goes by year, but since the pension is calculated by salary, there is a difference. For example, if you take the person who receives the minimum wage and the person who gets the average wage next to him, the difference between these incomes is about three times the difference, but in the future their pension will not be three times different, but double the difference. Such a proportional increase in one share and a reduction in the other has ensured that the less earning person does not have a three-fold pension, although he receives three times less than, for example, the average salary. My personal concern is that Estonia has a very low minimum wage and that very many people have to cope with the minimum wage. The main concern is that those currently receiving a small minimum wage will still receive a lower pension than those with a higher salary in the future. A person who receives an average salary can certainly do much better in raising children than a recipient of a minimum wage. So you really have to deal with the cause, not the consequence, and raise the minimum wage. I will then answer the third question, because it was already like an introduction to this. In the case of a national retirement pension, we are talking about two different things. First, the right to retirement and the amount of pension. For the sake of simplicity and clarity, I am talking about how the right to pension and the amount of pension will be determined since Estonia's transition to personalised social tax in 1999. For a person to be entitled to an old-age pension, he or she must be in retirement age and have at least 15 years of retirement age. In order to qualify for one year's pension, a person must have paid social tax for the whole year at least on the minimum wage. If a person has worked for at least one year for a minimum salary, he or she will also receive one year's pension. Differences in the amount of the pension are also due to how much the person has contributed to the pension system. For this purpose, an annual coefficient shall be calculated for each taxpayer each year. And the annual coefficient is the word that confuses, the word should be a 'pension point'. If, for example, pensions rise from 1 April and the person asks to print out a paper on it at the pension institution, it can be seen that he has worked for example 52 years, but the annual coefficient of in fact the pension point is 45 years ago. That's what's confusing. Let's go. The annual coefficient is calculated by comparing a person's social tax contribution for a given year with the social tax contribution of a person who received an average salary this year. Thus, if the social tax is paid on average on remuneration, the annual coefficient is 1. In the future, it will have a different name: the retirement point. We're coming up with this bill. If an annual coefficient of 1 was used for all employees, then the system which was in force until 1999 would be returned. The annual coefficient should not be calculated; pensions would be relatively equal, depending only on the length of time worked. Here, however, the question of fairness and motivation, that is to say, those who have earned more, have also contributed more to their pillars and expect a higher pension. But, as I said at the beginning, for me, the current low minimum wage is worrying and, in fact, the person's pension will depend on it. In addition, since 2000, there have been many social ministers, there has also been a social minister in your party, and no one has made this change. I very much appreciate Jaak Aabi, who was an excellent Minister for Social Affairs, but for some reason this amendment was not made at that time either. So the big problem is actually the low minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U107	Questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U108	Thank you. In your presentation, I would say, in a heartfelt presentation, you said that this law was passed on 26 June 1998 and entered into force on 2000. Would you recall, perhaps you have written down who was then Estonian Minister for Social Affairs, who is the author of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U109	I really cannot say this, but I know that in this Chamber there was a very unanimous vote in favour of this law, with the abstention of Eiki Nestor. Who was the Minister of Social Affairs? I can't answer that, and it wasn't a question of questioning. Almost everyone was in favour of adoption, 1 was impartial and 1 was against. I pulled that data out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U110	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U111	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good madam minister! Apparently, your explanation for the pillars, the indices and everything else was very relevant. But, unfortunately, if one of the pensioners is listening to this transfer now, his question is very simple: how can you live with 360 or 370 euros? It's only an emergency, but it's not a life. The question is actually very simple: when will pensions become decent in Estonia? After today's pensioners have died or when?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U112	Thank you for your question. I know it's not polite to ask back. But, as I said, I am very concerned that, at the moment, 355 euros, from which taxes go, have to cope, and that there is also a person receiving a minimum wage to raise children. Indeed, pensions are not high, but the minimum wage is also low.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U113	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U114	Thank you. Madam Minister! I understand that the question was not about how to exist today, but more about what kind of pension people will receive who have worked for 40 years and who are still living, that God would give them health for another 20 to 30 years. You were talking about a new project. What does this new project offer for those people who have worked once again, let them live long and want to receive a slightly higher pension, not that two or three hundred euros today?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U115	Thank you for your question. For those pensioners today, including my mother and father, and probably many of the acquaintances, relatives or parents of this Chamber, it is simply the message that pensions will rise 5.9% on 1 April. I know it's not enough, but the pension goes up to this level, which is maximum accounting, it doesn't go up less than the coefficient. In addition, the tax-free minimum will increase, which actually increased to 354 euros this year, as decided by the previous government. And since it had not risen for several years, the pension increase was also eaten. As the income tax-free minimum had not increased, the tax was deducted from the pension increase. From next year, 374 euros will be tax-free and those who earn or receive such a pension will no longer be taxed. Of course, it's hard to deal with that money. Next year, the minimum wage is 390 euros, minus taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U116	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U117	Thank you, manager. Madam Minister! If, for example, the pension base is raised by 10 euros, how much will this increase the pension fund's deficit? At present, this deficit is around EUR 400 million or is already higher. How much could this give the country an additional financial cost by increasing the base by, for example, EUR 10 to 15?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U118	Thank you for your question. But I have to say, since I'm not the Minister of Finance, I'm sending you that answer with the correct calculation. I don't know how to answer that right now, and I'm not gonna guess, because it wouldn't be fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U119	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U120	It was a pleasure to hear the presentation of the Minister for Social Protection. Of course, he tried to explain the situation to us and show us a little bit better than it really is. However, a special message besides the fact that instead of the annual coefficient, the pension point will now come as in Germany and that perhaps in some way the pension will also start to increase minimally due to the increase in the tax-free minimum. It is not really a question, as Mr Vasilyev said when he asked his question, that we would like to have exhaustive answers from the current Minister for Social Affairs, because he has not been involved in the creation of the matter. I would say that perhaps the easiest thing to do is, of course, this government coalition does not do this, because it has not done this before, it would be at least a widow's pension in Estonia, following the example of the West. We know that the worst situation is for those old people who are alone or lonely. A widow's pension could be when one of the spouses leaves. The other one could get some support, but we don't have it. I will come back to Mr Vassilyev's question. He said we're not even interested in this exact calculation right now, we're interested in how people can handle it. I'd like to remind you of another new piece of writing. Perhaps in Estonia, we have things out of place with this philosophy of poverty and misery, and we have misplaced the foundation of our country. I am quoting a piece of writing that appeared a few days ago, but I am not going to say where this quote was taken from, it is from the Estonian press, one newspaper. I read these words: 'A bit strange, even funny, how Estonians collectively as a country are ashamed of their country's childhood. In my opinion, Estonians should be very interested in the 90s, because it was at that time in Estonia that the values that apply here until today were quietly accepted. ' The author stresses once again: quietly accepted. And I'm going to add it to that: it's going to be accepted quietly today. I keep quoting: '90. In the 1990's, it was decided in Estonia that the poor, the sick and the other weak would be forgotten in society. And that rule is still valid to this day. " The author asks, " Where was this attitude taken, that the weaker ones may be patronized and mistreated, perhaps from ancient Sparta? ' Here are the key words that should open up this subject to us and which we should think more about, namely that we do not have the care developed in society. Our pensioners are living extremely badly right now. It's embarrassing to even talk like a lousy one. I don't think there's any point in bringing in a literatorium, everyone knows how few old people live in the country now, maybe living in the city a little better. Let me give you an example. The law of cohabitation brought several thousand people to Toompea. The police said one number, organized another, but people were right for several thousand. There were 100, 150, barely 200 people at the disability demonstration, which was here on the weekend, and I also went there. And here's the question. These are our worst, the cripples, the sickest and the poorest. They don't have legs, they don't have hands, some don't have mouths, others don't see, but we don't come to support them. Our government has the same attitude that has developed in society. The question is not at all whether we call the retirement point an annual coefficient, the question is that we have a very bad attitude towards old people and people at all. The Minister has already said that he is embarrassed and that he thinks that this pay problem is a major one. We have the wrong wages and the wrong pensions. Estonia does not respect its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U121	Would the minister like to make a statement? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U122	After the hammer hit, the free microphone starts now. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, On September 1, this year, children in a town of Narva's friendship did not go to school. This town is Donetsk in Ukraine. And the kids didn't go to school because until September 5th, the city was bombed actively, mines, rockets rained from the sky, etc. On 5 September, a truce was concluded, and the day of knowledge was set for 1 October. On 1 October, about one hundred schools in Donetsk opened their doors, including the 17th High School. The kids showed up, and then the mine fell. A teacher, Andrei Gribjonkin, a biology teacher, died a guard and died the father of one child. A few minutes later, another mine hit a minivan in the alley, killed seven people. It's a truce. This is the truce that is now in Ukraine, and the city is being bombarded by the same Ukrainian troops. Why am I even telling you this today? Because on Wednesday we will be discussing an association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Now imagine that you have a neighbor and that neighbor is torturing his dog, for example. I wouldn't give a hand to someone like that, but maybe he'll kill that dog in public in front of you. But let's talk about people. If a man kills his child before your eyes, would you want to be involved in an association agreement with him? This is what is happening now in Ukraine. Unfortunately, I am not scheduled to speak in this Chamber on Wednesday, and my only option is to address you now. When words are spoken that Ukraine is joining the European Union, Ukraine is on the right track, think about who you intend to join, those who will vote in favour. If we ratify this agreement on Wednesday, it would be the same as standing by and watching someone kill children and women, and we would approve. Before there must be real peace in Ukraine, during which children will not perish, schools will not be bombed, women will not die. Only then will this Treaty be ratified. Yes, of course, I think that on Wednesday, those from whom I am going to ask here will start talking about the fact that this was not done by the Ukrainian army, they will shoot themselves. I don't think I have enough time for questions to remind you that Donetsk, Lugansk and many other places have been bombarded by planes that Donbass people have never had. You bombed Ukrainian planes and I can show documentary footage to anyone who wants them, there are huge amounts of them on the Internet. And those helicopters that bombed the same cities are also Ukrainian troops. This official Ukraine, which is now in power, is killing its citizens. Shame on us if we support these massacres! There are weapons systems, such as Tochka-U, which shoot at 120 kilometers and carry an explosive device that weighs up to 500 kilos. Where he falls and bursts, a six-metre-deep hole appears in the ground. There's a lot of them out there, both exploded and unexploded. And this missile system is only armed with Ukrainian troops, it is neither in Russia nor in any other country. So, people, I don't think you want to hear me and listen, but this association agreement must not be signed until there is real peace before people have a secure life. Just one right to life! You don't want a destiny like that in Ukraine. Then do not support them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-13_U124	There's no more calls. Monday's session is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.36 p.m.
