ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the extraordinary session that I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution and § 51 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, on the proposal of 23 members of the Riigikogu, at the time they requested and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U2	Attention! Due to the end of the term of office of the member of the Riigikogu, Siret Kotka, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is located today. He'll have to take his oath first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! According to § 156 (2) of the current Constitution, persons who are at least 18 years old and who are permanently resident on the territory of that municipality are entitled to vote under the conditions laid down in the Local Government Election Act. Twenty-two years have passed since the Constitutional text was drafted and fixed in this election. During this period Estonian society has undergone significant development, society has stabilised, developed and mature. Young people who are now more educated, more aware, better informed about the affairs of society have also grown significantly. Laws have given them a number of proprietary and non-material rights, but their opportunities to participate in politics remain unchanged. The idea of reducing the age of selection has been under discussion for years with varying degrees of intensity. The push for today's initiative was given by the appeal of the Estonian Youth Association to the political groups. In the coalition's political groups, as well as in many academia and civil society circles, this idea received a positive response. Pursuant to § 161 (1), 163 (2) and 165 of the Constitution, 41 members of the Riigikogu submit a draft which provides for the amendment of the Constitution. The purpose of this draft is to reduce the active right to vote (right to vote) in the election of a local government council from 18 to 16 years of age. The initiators' request is to involve more young people in the discussion and decision-making of local public affairs. We believe in Estonia as an open and dynamic society, where listening to and counting young people's voices is good for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U6	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U7	We believe in Estonia, where open decision-making and inclusion will benefit society as a whole. Estonia is a small society. This means that when discussing issues that create serious social controversy, it is also worth turning to society. The draft law on partnership initiated by 40 members of the Riigikogu has caused controversy in society. IRL's view is that on the subject of 170000 Estonian families and the extension of the concept of family, according to the initiators of the draft, which has very important contact with all Estonian families, it would be reasonable to apply for greater social legitimacy than only the majority decision of the parliament. In order for a respectful debate to take place both in Parliament on the draft law and in society at large, we consider it reasonable to give Parliament the opportunity to decide on a possible referendum on the cohabitation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U8	I realized that the bill was handed over. Any more wishes? I have adopted two draft laws. If they meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, they shall be designated by a commission. Now, presence control, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. § 52 of the Home and Working Procedures Act obliges us to confirm the working time schedule. This can be done by a majority vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. 73 votes to 6 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The working schedule is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U9	We will go to the agenda item. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Riisalu, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U10	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The call for an emergency sitting gave us a good opportunity to discuss the so-called car VAT bill in depth. The discussion revealed that this was a draft prepared in a hurry. This draft, both in the Commission and in the wider debate, did not take into account the actual views of the stakeholders concerned by the draft. The discussions on the draft have claimed that all stakeholders have been involved, but this is not true. If the government coalition has been saying for many years that tax exemptions are not reasonable and that it is reasonable for us to pursue a uniform, simple and clear tax system, this draft does not support this trend in any way. In the course of yesterday's discussions, a number of possibilities emerged here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu to avoid the full implementation of the law, for example by registering as a taxi service provider. This list could be continued, which I don't want to do. We all understand that the Estonian state needs tax money to carry out its tasks. However, the position of the Centre Party is clear: the current government is conducting a tax policy that cannot be tolerated in any way, for the simple reason that it gives society the impression that we do not know exactly what we want. We're patching holes in a hurry, like an AC, that there's order and there's no order. Such a draft cannot be supported by the Estonian Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U11	Tõnis Palts, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U12	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This law increases the burden of entrepreneurship by EUR 48 million per year. The burden of entrepreneurship will be increased. This means that Estonian companies will become less competitive and less exportable. I don't think that's a good idea. When preparing this law, a great deal of demagoguery has been done, not to say that there has been an intimate display of wisdom. Demagogy is as if the person receiving the benefit from the company was in a privileged position compared to an employee who does not receive the benefit. In fact, the labour market is the labour market, and those who do not receive benefits will receive more pay. It's not stupid for an entrepreneur to pay someone twice. This is a completely demagogic claim that an unequal situation will arise. Secondly, it is demagoguery that is claimed by the nearly tsunami of the Ministry of Finance, as if a market was distorted. Which market is being distorted, I ask. A functioning market between sellers of bread and car salesmen? That's bullshit. In the extreme case, incentives are granted to Estonian car salesmen compared to Latvian car salesmen. You can't fight demagogy. The fact is that the situation of Estonian entrepreneurship is deteriorating compared to the current situation, increasing the burden of entrepreneurship by 48 million euros a year. This cannot be accepted by the IRL and does not agree with it. Good luck to the Reform Party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U13	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 644. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 644. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as a law of 644 and 32 members of the Riigikogu with one abstention. The Act amending the VAT Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U14	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U15	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I won't keep you long. However, I say that this bill also clearly bears this sign that the country and the government no longer have an understanding of what kind of tax system we need. This bill puts a sign on all normal entrepreneurs as if they were a criminal. The VAT refund should be processed within 60 days instead of the current 30 days, which in fact gives the State the opportunity to use the resources that were still returned to businesses by law within 30 days, now half longer, without paying a cent of interest for it. However, if, for any reason, an undertaking would be indebted to the State through the tax administration, it would be subject to an interest rate similar to the SMS loan, 21% per year. I believe that this change in the tax system will not help to improve the business environment. Today, the activities of normal and good entrepreneurs in Estonia have required normal cooperation with the tax administration. Businesses themselves are interested that their partners, who, for example, have made some mistake in declaring taxes, would also submit the correct declarations quickly and operationally. So far, there has been a very clear rule and a beautiful dialogue. I think 98% of Estonian entrepreneurs behave adequately. Now, by law, we are giving the opportunity to extend this time by half, which in fact simply gives rise to the temptation to hold on to positive and entrepreneurial decisions, because money, as we know, lacks the identity of the species. If the money is at the disposal of the state, there is more cash flow in the Treasury that can carry out its tasks. I don't think this change is right. The Estonian Centre Party calls for this bill not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U16	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 680. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 680. Please take a stand and vote. There are 57 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the 680 Act and 31 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Tax Act and the VAT Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U17	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U18	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I can see a little bit of nerve on the side of the government coalition. Therefore, my going to the remote has served my purpose. As far as the third draft law is concerned, it is very clear that the decisions made by the members of the government coalition are also unpleasant to them. As far as taxation of alcohol is concerned, the Centre Party has no major complaints. For the simple reason that it is reasonable to tax those substances that damage the human body and paralyse its normal course, these substances must be expensive. On behalf of the Centre Party, however, I would like to talk about the fact that keeping home expenses under control could be a shared desire of the government and Parliament. You see, homeowners, you could say that, above all, homeowners are the best part of society, who are relatively likely to have a normal family and children and who work every day. Some good people who have built a home for themselves during their lives and have strangely installed oil stoves there in earlier times are now under attack. They were good in their time, and now they are getting revenge by paying essentially the same price for oil as for car fuel purchased at a gas station. You see, this cannot be accepted for the simple reason that it is the duty of the country to keep its citizens and to give them the opportunity to live a decent life. In particular, we must not rob people at the moment they are paid, but we must develop a normal economy in cooperation with our citizens. If there is a deliberate increase in costs related to immediate existence, in particular home driving, can already be considered a luxury, because we have municipalities where public transport is free, but a person pays for a home in any case, then it is certainly not reasonable to fill the state budget with such resources. The Centre Party cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U19	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Adopting the bill as a law will lead to an increase in the cost of living for many people. People will be put into unopposed coercion. A number of domestic business sectors are placed in an unequal and competitive position compared to business in our neighbouring countries. The new excise policy will be regularised for the next four years, but there are no understandable reasons and clear objectives as to why it is done in this form. The draft law, which is primarily aimed at meeting budget gaps, but which undermines the development and competitiveness of different areas of life and reduces the well-being of a large part of the Estonian population, cannot be supported by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. We are therefore voting against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U21	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 682. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels 682. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 and 33 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 682 as a law, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and amending the Law on special labelling of liquid fuels has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U22	The next item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U23	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard criticism today in the discussions on previous draft tax laws, including an arbitrary and one-sided approach, that we are adopting tax laws in haste and that we do not have an understanding of the future development of the tax system. Well, there's still an understanding, don't exaggerate! One objective is certainly to improve tax collection, one of the good examples of which is, by the way, the register of workers working on the first day today. But this is the result of one earlier amendment to the Tax Act. However, I come to the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act. Its higher objective, apart from organising other tax-related areas, is to reduce the tax burden on lower wage earners and the overall tax burden on labour by increasing the tax-free rate from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month. From next year, the tax-free minimum will increase to EUR 1848 per year. The draft also organises the principles and procedures for drawing up the list of companies and associations benefiting from income tax. The situation of wage earners in Estonia has improved in recent years. According to Statistics Estonia, gross wages grew by 7% last year, real wages adjusted for price growth rose by more than 4%, and real wages have been rising for the third year in a row to improve the livelihood of wage earners. Employees' wage expectations remain high and wage growth is expected to continue this year. In addition to the increase in the tax-free minimum, income tax will fall from 21% to 20% in the following year. These steps will also reduce the tax burden on companies. It should be taken into account that companies must also finance wage growth of employees through profit margins and price increases, and that the possibility for exporting companies to increase prices is limited due to external competition. Steps taken by the State to increase the tax-free minimum and to reduce the income tax rate and unemployment insurance contributions will reduce the labour costs of companies. For those who receive a salary of 1000 euros, or an average salary close to their salary, this also means 170 extra euros per year. In addition to the increase in real wages, these steps will improve the situation of households and boost domestic consumption. The additional tax exemption for pensioners will increase from EUR 210 to EUR 220 per month. In turn, domestic consumption growth will contribute to a recovery in economic growth. Lowering labour taxes and income tax will smooth the growth in labour costs for companies and improve their competitiveness. The country's budgetary strategy approved in spring also provides for a gradual increase of the tax-free minimum to EUR 184 per month by 2018. Eesti Pank's study has found that increasing tax-free income has a significant impact on labour supply. Increasing tax-free income by 10% increases labour supply by around 0.5%. This is an effective measure to reduce the tax burden on workers, increasing their incomes and increasing employment. An alternative measure is an increase in the minimum wage, but it will lead to a reduction in the employment of lower-paid workers and an increase in labour costs for companies. Foreign auditors, including the IMF and the OECD, have recommended that Estonia reduce labour taxes for workers with just lower wages. This is a more cost-effective measure than other measures to increase income and employment and to boost the economy. It is therefore important that the tax-free minimum continues to increase after 2015. Just as other important changes to the tax law that are being discussed today will certainly be supported by the Reform Party Group in adopting this draft as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U24	On behalf of the Centre Party Group, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U25	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no point in accusing the opposition and, above all, the Centre Party of arbitrary handling of matters. Simple things should be said in a simple language that the people understand, but, indeed, draft laws tend to be more complicated. They often contain a lot of right and good things, but if there is one screaming injustice or contradiction with reality in the bill, it unfortunately tends to nullify the bill as a whole. With regard, for example, to the draft that is currently under discussion, I am not saying that all its points are bad, absolutely not, but one thing that cannot be accepted is that the tax-free minimum will be increased by EUR 10. In our society, in recent times, we are constantly comparing ourselves with another Europe, in particular, comparing ourselves with Finland. We constantly wonder why there are some EUR 180 levels of the tax-free minimum and, in the case of the minimum wage, just over EUR 300, which, in fact, are literally keeping us at the level of the developing country. The sincere desire of all of us is to move up from the point of view of poverty. I also mentioned it in my speech yesterday, and I am still in that position. The Centre Party has discussed several possibilities emotionally in recent hours. A considerable increase in the tax-free minimum would help to catch up with the less insured strata of society and bring them back to domestic consumption. When asked what it is intended to do, a good government coalition, try to understand that you are like a drowner clinging to a reduction in income tax. Next year you will reduce your income tax by another 1%. The Centre Party will probably once again be ready to seriously discuss the withdrawal from the tiered income tax dogma, if you were willing to discuss that the cost of helping the same less insured part could be that income tax does not fall, but increases to a reasonable level, such as 23%. You're always trying to get through these draft laws to win more successful and richer people. The ordinary citizen is not interested in the statistics that a good colleague has just read here that one salary is rising and the other salary is rising and that entrepreneurs must start raising their wages at the expense of their profits. It is not polite at all to share foreign money from the Riigikogu's remote control. But the state's money must be distributed from the Riigikogu's remote control. By the way, I've only been here seven and a half years, by the way, but before that, I did some other things in my life. I dare say to you that if economic growth is zero or close to zero, our main export markets in Scandinavia will have an impact on the situation. So where does the expected wage increase fit, as my colleague said, which could actually lead to a wave of bankruptcy in the exporting industry if this wage increase continues? Let's be honest! I'm not trying to attack anyone, but I want to call on you again to resolve the situation. We can't go on like this anymore. We should, wise men and women, sit calmly in a closed space and admit to ourselves that our tax system as a whole is beginning to get in the way of time, and this will no longer guarantee Estonia the success we had for 15 years. I'll take three more minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U26	Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U27	It would make sense for us to discuss the matter as a whole. Understand that for the ordinary citizen, the good Estonian person who has authorized us to sit here, our moves are not understandable. I believe that as wise people, you may even agree with me at times in your soul, but you don't want to admit it to yourself because you have no choice. There are no options because the state has to play its role and tasks, and money is really needed for that. You can't cling to your own decisions that don't really help your life. When making such cosmetic corrections, it must not be assumed that an Estonian person is foolish and does not understand that if the tax exemption is increased by 10 euros, it is as if he has won some considerable amount in the lottery. It's not like that! Because of this, I repeat, it is time for us to look at the whole system as a whole. It is time to try, before the 2015 Riigikogu elections, to take an effort to develop a sensible new tax system for everyone who wants to participate actively in politics, not to force us to think all the time about where this is going and why our economic growth is zero, why we are so inefficient, etc. Angel investors recently said that they would do things, they would be in favour of innovation, but the state has not stood up to them. The tax system would also be one point on the negotiating table. Unfortunately, the Centre Party cannot support this bill, where there are a lot of good things, because less insured people are not really helped by this bill. But Estonia is a small society and there must be no such contrasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U28	Siim Kisler, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three extra minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U29	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! According to the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, this draft is essentially a bill of cluster law that puts us, all members of the Riigikogu, before the schizophrenic choice. On the one hand, it is positive that the tax-free rate will be increased. It's true, they don't do much. We cannot share the optimism of the Reform Party, so that the additional EUR 2 per person per month would significantly change our employment or significantly increase domestic consumption. But this is clearly a step in the right direction. On the other hand, there is a very fundamental question in this draft. In particular, agricultural subsidies paid by a natural person are taxed and natural persons are placed in an unequal position compared to self-employed persons and companies. We cannot support this unequal treatment. There are also things in the bill that are so and so. I want to talk about an important area which is very much affected by this draft and which has so far received unearned little attention. This is the creation of a list of non-profit organisations, foundations and religious associations benefiting from a tax credit. It is a very important mechanism for the development of civil society and the involvement of private money in the promotion of society. Now, however, the principles are being changed and the basis for the connections to the list is being reworded. These connections are on this list now, by the way, thousands. Speaking of inclusion, there was talk in this Chamber yesterday about § 103 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, which says that the commission will present the views of experts and other persons who participated in the proceedings in the explanatory memorandum. On this very important issue concerning civil society, the Union of NGOs has put forward its concrete and very constructive proposals, but it seems that they did not exist at all. They're not spoken of, they weren't really discussed. Although the Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu has emphasised that representatives of civil society must be involved in the work of Riigikogu committees, their most important organisation, the umbrella organisation at all, their proposals are ignored. I will read out what the current President of the Riigikogu said last year from this very board: 'This would be an opportunity for those who cannot say their word in the course of the procedure of the drafts, so that they can come to the committee meeting and express their opinion. Ultimately, the question is not only whether and how much the Riigikogu wants to listen to the views of civil society organisations, but also, in my opinion, that this way, much better laws will come from this hall than today. ' This is a very important and very good idea. This law could have been made much better, especially in relation to the charitable activities of non-governmental organisations. The Union of NGOs has very constructively proposed much better solutions than the one in the draft. At present, the draft refers to the provision or provision of services and other benefits in a publicly available way. It's gonna be crazy what this universally available way is. The explanatory memorandum states that a generally available way does not mean that any person should have access to the goods, services or other benefits offered by the association, but it should also be available to a person with a lower average income. Let us look at the example of life: the sports association relieves one parent of the cost of soccer training; it does not relieve you. Is that a universally available way or isn't it? It's about private schools and hobbies. All of this means specific situations that tax officials are beginning to interpret in some way. The wording of the draft is currently very confusing. I will also, for example, bring about the replacement of one word. According to the current wording of the law, the company does not apply for profit; in the draft the word 'income' is here. What does that mean? How do you interpret the fact that an association does not apply for income? Income is everything, including membership fee. The explanatory memorandum states that the restriction on obtaining income does not preclude the company from earning its own income in order to achieve its statutory objectives, but means that it must not be an end in itself. Here again there is a very wide scope for interpretation, which must now be furnished. If the NGO association had been involved and discussed with them, the law could have been made much better and clearer and the tension of many NGOs would have been removed. After all, these associations promote our civil society, which is a common goal for all of us. I quote from the letter from the Estonian Association of Non-profit and Foundations, where they say: 'It is not so much the wider idea of making tax-free spending, but to include more private money in the development of society and then to spend less taxpayers' money, which is partly not collected in the other way through the benefit. " This idea has unfortunately not been fully understood by the initiators. If a summary assessment of this draft is to be made, it must be said that positive and also negative steps are envisaged here. So this is a highly controversial cluster bill that puts members of the Riigikogu before a forced choice. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance is in a coercive situation and we are not taking part in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U30	Mrs Vasilyev, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps the most important part of this draft or the most widely affecting society, which concerns all recipients, is an increase in the tax-free rate. This rise has been at the heart of the debate here for quite a long time, but also elsewhere, either on a television screen or on newspaper columns. What you can deny here, this increase of EUR 10 per month or EUR 120 per year is certainly not something you could stop at, so that the tax-free rate could also be that way in the coming years. However, I do think that this is a considerable step, because, which is once again denied here, the country has not found any money for raising the tax-free rate for years. This inevitably leads to a certain amount, i.e. a reduction in revenue, being excluded from the Treasury. So the criticism that we are moving in the right direction, but with too small steps, could be understandable. But I think that moving forward with small steps is also more sensible and better than standing still, assuming that the right direction is being pursued. It will certainly be much easier for the Centre Party to make criticism; it will be much more difficult for the IRL, which has just been in the government coalition, because it does not even remember when the tax-free rate last increased when they were in government. The Social Democrats, who, while in opposition, drew close attention to this issue, have now shown that our words also have weight if we can make promises. As soon as possible, we increased the tax-free rate after receiving the coalition. Certainly, if, after the 2015 elections, we are either the coalition's founders or we are part of the coalition, then our priority is to continue raising the tax-free rate. The reason is above all that we have been talking about our high labour taxes, which, however, is high and which is low, depends on where to set the checkpoint or reference point. If you try to compare yourself with another Europe, you can rather see that we have higher than average labour taxes for low-wage workers. I think that reducing labour taxes on these workers could continue to be a priority. As far as I understand, all parties in this Chamber share this thinking. I hope that the 2016 budget will lead to an increase in the tax-free rate. It is certainly appropriate to mention other taxes on labour here, above all, the unemployment insurance contribution, which is considered essentially a tax in Estonia, and the reduction of which has also been demanded for a long time by the Social Democrats in this Chamber. Despite the fact that reserves are sufficient, we have long collected additional resources in terms of budgetary consolidation in the unemployment fund. The government coalition has also reached a consensus that this tax could fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U32	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote of 683. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Cultural Endowment of Estonia Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 683. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 and 16 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft law as a law, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and the Estonian Cultural Endowment Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U33	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm opening negotiations, there's no wish to negotiate. The commission has proposed that this draft be put to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, 687. Please take a stand and vote. There are 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the 687 Act, no one opposed and no one abstained. The Act amending the Electricity Market Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U34	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U35	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Aivar got tired, and now it's my turn. There's a bill to amend the Road Act on our desk. In my opinion, this is one of the stupidest drafts of this spring session, which is being sought as a law. The reason for submitting the bill is very simple: there is a great deal of promise in the coalition agreement and elections in the Riigikogu are approaching, but it is very difficult to find sources of cover for these expenses. The government coalition has now come up with such a good idea that there are additional resources that could be used to finance public expenditure for which there are no sources of cover. Right now, according to the law, 75% of excise duties on fuel should go on tea, but unfortunately the government is not complying with this law now. According to the audit of the National Audit Office, only 50% of this money goes to tea-holding. What happens when the funding gets cut off from the law? We remember that until 2009 local authorities had been provided with 10% of the money from excise duties on fuel. What happened after it was disenfranchised? On average, funding fell to 6.5% in the next three years. I am quite convinced that road-saving equipment in the state budget will happen in the same way, even though some relief is sought from European Union money. But this is certainly not the solution, because the purpose of European Union money is not to fill the state budget, but to level out the distinction between Estonia and the other countries of the European Union, so that the road situation can also improve. Moreover, it is foolish because, thanks to the wishes of the coalition, very many people who have engaged in road companies and road maintenance will be deprived of their jobs. As money decreases, the number of jobs decreases. It is estimated that 500 people may be left without a job. If that is the purpose of the government coalition, you will achieve that goal. But if this is a wise step for the future, I am not sure of that. Please note that the year's delay and repairs are already several times more expensive. I'll ask where the country can find the money. The justification is that funding must be made highly flexible, otherwise the Road Administration will be forced to build all kinds of stupid intersections that even the former Prime Minister cannot navigate. In fact, he recently mentioned in the Riigikogu's speech chair that he was unable to get down from or onto the cross of Mäo. If I were him, I'd be ashamed, because during his reign these traffic nodes were built. But, in any case, the Centre Party Group against this summer, I do not think it will support an economically very stupid draft. I hope there are more people in this Chamber who can think economically and do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U36	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U37	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Nor can the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union support this draft. That's for two reasons. One reason is simple: almost as much money will be taken away from the tea money as the national budget for this year was earmarked for local roads. However, I suggest that you all take up the text of the draft third reading and read § 1 (4) of the Road Act Amendment Act. So far, we have decided in this hall how much money goes to local governments to cover road maintenance. If this law is passed in a few moments, it will no longer be the right to decide in this Chamber, but in the government. Have we really reached the point of not trusting the elected members of the Riigikogu who can fight for the financial support of local governments, and this decision is left to the government alone? Therefore, unfortunately, IRL is not voting in favour of this draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U38	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to put the draft to a final vote on 681. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Road Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 681. Please take a stand and vote. There are 54 and 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft as a law, with no abstentions. The law amending the Road Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U39	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and appointment of new members' by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The rapporteur from the Economic Commission is Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U40	Honourable Riigikogu! According to the Estonian Development Fund Act, the highest management body of the Development Fund is the Supervisory Board, which consists of nine members. According to the Development Fund Act, the Riigikogu appoints five members of the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Economic Commission, two of them being members of the Riigikogu and three representatives of entrepreneurship and the public. The members of the Supervisory Board must comply with the requirements of § 10 of the Development Fund Act, which can be summarised in such a way that the member of the Supervisory Board must have a higher education and must have been exposed to economic activity. Currently, members of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas and Reet Roos belong to the Council of the Development Fund. The Riigikogu has appointed Ville Yehe, Jaan Sven Männiku and Mart Einasto as representatives of business and the general public. In addition to these, there are two other members of government (Urve Palo and Anne Sulling) and two members of the Council of Rectors (Volli Kalm and Andres Keevallik). The mandate of Kaja Kallas, former member of the Board of the Development Fund, as a member of the Riigikogu ended on 18 June. Instead of Kaja Kallas, the Riigikogu must appoint a new member of the Riigikogu. Pursuant to § 10 (4) of the Development Fund Act, the Riigikogu may, in a duly justified case, withdraw a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu before the end of the mandate, without delay appointing a new member of the Supervisory Board. In connection with the changes in the government coalition that took place in March of this year, the Economic Commission decided at its meeting on 12 June to propose to the Riigikogu that a member of the Council of the Development Fund be recalled from the Riigikogu Reet Roos. In his place, a new member of the Riigikogu must also be appointed as a member of the Council. The Economic Commission asked the political groups of the Riigikogu to present their candidate for the position of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund. Candidates were presented in three: Valdo Randpere, Indrek Saar and Kadri Simson. At its meeting on 12 June, the Commission decided to propose the appointment of Valdo Randpere and Indrek Saar as a member of the Board of the Development Fund on the basis of the results of the vote. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this draft decision is discussed at a single reading and a majority of votes are needed for the adoption of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U41	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The commission has proposed to put the draft decision to a final vote on 695. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund and appointment of new members' draft 695. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 and 9 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the decision. The decision to recall a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and to appoint new members has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U42	The next item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring Article 116 (1) to the Constitution (No 28) of the Pharmaceutical Act. Honourable Riigikogu, I think it is necessary to brief you on the procedure for this procedure. First, the report will be presented by Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is explained by its chairman, Rait Maruste, and the position of the Social Affairs Committee by its chairman, Heljo Pikhof. A member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question, followed by negotiations. Finally, the Riigikogu must decide whether or not it is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Let's start the debate. Please, Chancellor Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Under the Constitution and the Chancellor of Justice Act, I analysed the temporary restrictions on the establishment of general and branch pharmacies provided for in the Pharmaceutical Act. As a result of the analysis and taking into account that similar restrictions have been declared by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court to be unconstitutional and void by decision of 9 December 2013, I consider that the restrictions imposed by the Pharmaceutical Act on the granting and amendment of the licence of a general pharmacy violate the freedom to conduct a business provided for in § 31 of the Constitution, in conjunction with the general fundamental right of equality laid down in § 12 (1) of the Constitution. The conduct of the Riigikogu in disregard of the Supreme Court's decision is also contrary to § 152 (2) of the Constitution. In short, I take this view for the following reason. On 21 May 2014, the Riigikogu decided to continue to restrict the establishment of general and branch pharmacies in places where there is sufficient demand for a pharmacy to pay off economically. In the event of the removal of restrictions, competition could therefore be expected to increase. By restricting the freedom to set up pharmacies in this way, the legislator treats undertakings unduly unequally and secures the positions of existing pharmacies at the expense of undertakings wishing to enter the pharmacy market or expand their activities there. Although the new restrictions are temporary (established for a year), they were re-established on 9 December 2014, according to the Supreme Court judgment of 9 December 2013, the constitutional situation had to end on 9 June 2014, without being justified by objective need. The Supreme Court found that restrictions on establishment disproportionately restrict the freedom to conduct a business and are unconstitutional, but the constitutional situation could also arise if they were repealed on the day. Therefore, the Supreme Court decided to postpone the entry into force of its decision by six months, so that the legislator can take the necessary steps in the meantime to prevent the availability of the pharmacy service from deteriorating. The Riigikogu justified the inclusion of the contested implementing provisions in the medicine law by arguing that if the restrictions were contrary to the Constitution, their abolition would result in an even worse situation if other measures were not taken, which is why the restrictions are constitutional in the light of the danger. If you accept such an argument, the abolition of the Riigikogu's restrictions could be postponed indefinitely, as it can maintain the alleged threat of inaction. In addition, when assessing the constitutionality of the measures, it is important that the alleged risk of deregulation is caused by the failure to comply with the Supreme Court's decision. Failure to comply with the judgment cannot also be justified by the principle of proportionality by considering the enforcement of the judgment as a constitutional benefit and the alleged damage resulting from the execution of the judgment on the one hand. Although the Riigikogu has justified the imposition of temporary restrictions with a lack of time, there has been enough time to bring the regulation into line with the Constitution, the circuma four years since the relevant draft law was submitted to the Riigikogu on 28 October 2010. On the contrary, the activities of the legislator show that the real reason is the lack of will to give a law that would stop unequal treatment of businesses in the pharmacy market. The lack of the legislator's will cannot be a legally relevant justification for the continuation of the constitutional situation. The Constitution restricts the activities of the legislator regardless of whether the legislative body has the will to comply with the constitutional rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U44	Any questions for the waitress? George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U45	Thanks for the presentation. You mentioned in your report that the Supreme Court postponed the execution of the decision for six months, as the day-to-day implementation of this decision would also lead to an unconstitutional situation. In addition, the Riigikogu postponed the implementation of this decision or imposed temporary arrangements for another year. But do you think there is a good constitutional solution to this case at all, without temporary regulation? In fact, the transitional period has been established by both the Supreme Court and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U46	Thank you! I think that if Article 1165 (1) to (6) of the Law on Medicinal Products is repealed, nothing will get worse. The competition authority has also said that it will not get worse in any case, because competition will work and it would be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U47	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U48	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! These temporary restrictions are indeed necessary, as you know. Otherwise, in the near future, maybe disappear in the circle of half a hundred country pharmacies. The Statistical Office is currently carrying out analyses on the basis of which more in-depth regulation will be established. You are familiar with all these things, you have been on the Commission. But you haven't been able to find any solutions. As you know, a recent decision was made that pharmacists are no longer mere merchants, but are health care providers. Consequently, this is no longer an area where the freedom to conduct a business is restricted, but it is the area where the state must regulate. Why do you not treat it as if we are currently not restricting freedom to conduct a business, but it is a matter of regulation? The state is obliged to do so, and that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U49	Thank you! In fact, § 1165 of the Pharmaceutical Act is the same as before. The Court also ruled that this was contrary to the Constitution and was detrimental to the country's pharmacies. Paragraph 140 of the judgment states: "As the statistics in paragraph 131 above show, there were 162 land pharmacies in 2005 and only 127 in 2013. ' It has a great impact, and it has been very much analyzed when it comes to making a decision. Consequently, when a decision has been taken, it must also be complied with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U50	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U51	Thank you, manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! In fact, there is a decision of the Supreme Court, but the Riigikogu does not comply with that decision. How do you describe this situation? What kind of signal do we give people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U52	Thank you! It would be very bad if it was not met, because every obligation must be fulfilled. I quote in § 152 of the Constitution: 'The Supreme Court shall repeal any law or other act if it is contrary to the Constitution's provision and purpose. ' It doesn't matter that some small section is changed. Coherence with thought is important. The Constitution must work.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U53	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U54	In accordance with the right of precedent, the Riigikogu complies with the judgments which it likes and when it wants to. We paid a fine for the VEB Fund, and we could have paid it further. In short, the notion that the Riigikogu will execute the Supreme Court... Well, that's kind of naive. I have another topic. Purely Philosophically, the situation is very complicated. If there is a normal business in pharmacies, this restriction is, of course, wrong. If the pharmacy service is a continuation of health care, it should be regulated, as Mr Tuus-Laul said. It's a complicated question, for God's sake. But tell me, please, can we in this case, precisely in this case, be blamed for the lack of will, when this unfortunate Social Affairs Committee has sat together dozens of times and tried to resolve this situation somehow. It is not a question of will, it is a question of problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U55	Thank you! It's a very complicated question. If you take it more broadly, it's a big deal. In 1996, ownership restrictions were removed from the Pharmaceutical Act, which prevented pharmacies from being transferred to private operators who were not specialists working at the pharmacy. Following the rapid concentration of the retail and wholesale markets for medicinal products, privatized pharmacies were taken over and incorporated into chains. Thus, in Estonia, the traditional market for pharmacists was not developed elsewhere in Europe, but the majority of pharmacies were concentrated in the hands of large pharmaceutical wholesalers, such as Magnum and Tamro. In 2004, the Finnish pharmacy chain Yliopiston Aptekki and the Lithuanian chain Euroapteek came to the market in Estonia, and the Riigikogu decided to restrict the freedom to set up pharmacies. In 2005, the Riigikogu adopted a draft law containing geographical and demographic restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies. The restrictions on establishment which entered into force at the beginning of 2006 (§ 421 (1) (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act) are currently in force for the ninth year. In the meantime, the statements of the Competition Authority (in 2009 and 2011) and the National Audit Office (in 2012) confirmed that the restrictions on establishment did not meet the objectives set for them, but rather affected competition. In 2009, the Riigikogu adopted a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic, which wished to repeal this provision on the ground that the restrictions imposed had not fulfilled its purpose. However, the Riigikogu did not repeal the provision, as the Social Affairs Committee considered that the repeal of the provision required an analysis. The analysis was completed in 2010, but the Riigikogu did not continue to discuss the issue of restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies and did not shape its position. In 2012, the Chancellor of Justice proposed that the Riigikogu bring § 421 (1) (3) of the Pharmaceutical Act into line with the Constitution. The Riigikogu supported the proposal on 16 October 2012, and the Social Affairs Committee received the task of initiating the draft. As of 9 January 2013, Riigikogu had not brought the law into line with the Constitution. The Chancellor of Justice applied to the Supreme Court. By decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 9 December 2013, the restrictions on establishment were declared illegal and void. The Supreme Court postponed the entry into force of its decision until 9 June 2014 in order to allow the legislator, in the meantime, to introduce constitutional regulation within six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U56	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U57	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! All these restrictions do not in any way prevent the closure of any pharmacy; they are not restricted. Secondly, all the statistics, including the statistics of recent years, show that despite these restrictions, rural pharmacies are systematically closed, which means that these restrictions do not work in practice. Regional experts also say that, in this form, these restrictions do not under any circumstances protect or benefit the rural population. What exactly do you think they're protecting? If the land pharmacies are not protected, someone else will be protected. Who do you think they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U58	It's a different subject. As they say, the market lock still exists. That's different. There is a market lock and there is no competition. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U59	Thank you. No further questions for the Chancellor of Justice. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is made known by its chairman, Rait Maruste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 28 at two sittings. The first meeting was held on 16 June and the second on 17 June. At the first debate were Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder and Deputy Chancellor of Justice Hent Kalmo. Mr Teder explained before the Commission why he had come up with his proposal, which he repeated here today, and I will not dwell on it. The speaker said, as an introduction to the debate, that the Chancellor of Justice justified his proposal in such a way that the real reason for the introduction of the new regulation was the lack of political will to end the unequal treatment of businesses in the pharmacy market. In the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, this is clearly a lack of political will. The speaker here felt that this was a new argument for constitutional oversight and did not agree with it. This is evidenced by the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs initiated the relevant draft. 10 March, before the first reading, the Commission discussed it three times, and between the first and second reading, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at five sessions, including associations of pharmacies, representatives of the pharmaceutical wholesalers' association, etc. The temporary restrictions developed by the Social Committee included substantial additions and improvements to the regulation of restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies, which were intended to be of a temporary nature from the outset. Can this situation be assessed as a lack of political will? Indrek Teder replied that the Supreme Court has declared these restrictions unconstitutional and cannot be overlooked. On this point, the speaker stated that it took the Supreme Court one year to make a decision, although it is foreseen that the decision must be taken within four months, so the law on legal proceedings provides for our constitutional review. The Riigikogu was given six months to solve the problem, which is also a legitimate time, and the Riigikogu has only 20 days to respond to the new proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The speaker asked whether this was a legitimate, theoretical problem or whether it was a real market lock or a problem. Has there been a large number of requests for the establishment of pharmacies which have not been taken into account for the reason for the restriction on establishment or which have been rejected? On this point, the Chancellor of Justice replied that no applications for establishment were made on the grounds that they could not be carried out. This problem is therefore of a more theoretical nature at present. Hent Kalmo added that the new regulation is not so much a question of the limitations that it contains but, above all, of the enforcement of the Supreme Court's judgment. However, the execution of the Supreme Court's decision does not fall within the competence of the Chancellor of Justice. The speaker further noted that the Riigikogu has recognised this situation as unconstitutional, but did not consider it possible to resolve the issue within the six months given to it. At the same time, the Riigikogu fixed for itself, by which time the situation must be resolved. Doesn't the Chancellor of Justice think this is enough? Indrek Teder replied that the execution of the Supreme Court's decision cannot be postponed. That's right, too. Member of the Commission Kalev Kotkas said that there are other decisions of the Supreme Court that have not been implemented, such as decisions concerning the financing of local governments, the payment of the obligation to tolerate a technical installation, etc. Kalev Eagle asked why the restrictions on the establishment of pharmacies have attracted such attention from the Chancellor of Justice. Teder replied that this was just one of the things that should be completed. Member of the Commission Urmas Reinsalu stated that, on the basis of § 142 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu will have 20 days after the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring this act into line with the Constitution. In fact, the Riigikogu can only cancel this provision within 20 days, but it cannot develop a new one. The speaker pointed out that within 20 days it would not be possible to develop a new regulation that should replace the repealed regulation, it would not be realistic or serious about the constitution. Tarmo Tamm found that the Riigikogu had six months to deal with the matter, yet it was not done and the subject was not taken seriously. This is a very dangerous precedent, if the decisions of the Supreme Court are not enforced, Tarmo Tamm found them. Andres Herkel said that it is unreasonable not to discuss at all the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice in the Riigikogu to try at least to form a position on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Priit Toobal, Member of the Commission, proposed that the Executive Board of the Riigikogu be invited to include the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 28 on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday 19 June. We voted on this proposal, but it was not supported: against 6, by 3, with no abstentions. The Commission continued its meeting on 17 June the following day. The question was put to the vote and the members of the Commission had to take a position on whether they supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal 28. As a result of the vote, the Commission (by 5 votes to 2, with 1 abstention) decided not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. The second decision was to appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U61	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. The Social Affairs Committee is presented by the chairman of the committee, Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal on the restriction of the authorisation of the general pharmacy (No 28) at its meeting on 17 June 2014. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, Deputy Chancellor of Justice Hent Kalmo and Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs Ivi Normet participated in the meeting. The Chancellor of Justice explained to the Commission his proposal to bring Article 1165 of the Pharmaceutical Act into line with the Constitution. The Commission decided unanimously not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. This was done on the basis of the same grounds that the Act adopted on 21 May 2014 laid down a temporary, one-year regulation for the granting of a licence for a general pharmacy in a high-demand area. The Act was declared by the President of the Republic on 9 June 2014. The repeal of the establishment restrictions on the day could undermine the availability of the pharmacy service. A large number of pharmacies would also be established in such a way that keeping the pharmacy in Estonia as a whole would become largely loss-making due to increased labour costs, the total surface area of the pharmacy and other such factors. Only large pharmacies would probably be able to bear the damage, and it could become impossible for pharmacists to keep pharmacies. The law adopted contains provisions on the reading of pharmacists and pharmacists as health workers, the establishment and organisation of a pharmacy bus, the payment of basic allowance for pharmacists to work in the countryside and the facilitation of the opening of a pharmacy in small islands. The licence of a general pharmacy may not be granted by wholesale distribution companies for medicinal products or by undertakings associated with them through their dominant influence. From now on, the establishment of branch pharmacies will only be allowed in rural areas and smaller cities with fewer than 4 000 inhabitants. General pharmacies will also be given the opportunity to arrange for the delivery of medicinal products at the request of the patient. However, these measures are not sufficient to ensure the availability of pharmacy services in rural areas. The six-month deadline was too short for all measures to be analysed and taken. The Constitutional Review Court Procedure Act does not provide for the possibility of requesting additional time to comply with the decision. However, the additional time was necessary in the general public interest to find a solution to the situation. The Riigikogu has both the right and the duty to do so. Therefore, a temporary temporary regulation was introduced in order to continue the work to achieve the best result during this period. Temporary regulation in time cannot in itself be contrary to the Constitution, especially if it is established for reasons of general public interest and for convincing reasons. Only the Supreme Court can make a final and binding assessment of the constitutionality of the regulation, as well as of the temporary regulation, under the relevant procedure. The Social Affairs Committee discussed at its meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and with the employees of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu the plan of organisation of the pharmacy service. The Ministry of Social Affairs' plan for the further organisation of the pharmacy service provides for an analysis to assess the effects of the following options in rural areas, i.e. in low demand areas, in order to ensure access to medicines. Firstly, the development of an operating support system for rural pharmacies, either with support from the state budget, through the collection of a licence fee for the pharmacy service or by any other means. Secondly, those who provide pharmacy services in high demand areas should ensure access to medicinal products in rural areas, i.e. the obligation to establish a general pharmacy or its structural unit, which is imposed either through the Agency, on the basis of an application by the local authority and/or on the basis of a national minimum network, through a Chamber of Pharmacists or otherwise. It is planned to order an analysis and a forecast assessing the labour needs of the organisation models of the pharmacy service and the need for a training order. Work will also continue to be undertaken to agree on what health services may be provided by pharmacists and pharmacists at pharmacies, to develop service requirements, and to plan training and funding. The Social Affairs Committee decided that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will order analyses of support for pharmacies in low demand areas. Their aim is to find out what new measures could ensure the availability of pharmacies in the country in such a way as to ensure that access to the pharmacy service does not deteriorate compared to the current one. Currently, 99% of Estonian residents have a 15-minute drive away from the pharmacy. The aim is also to analyse the relevance and proportionality of the proposed new measures, including an assessment of their impact on businesses and the public sector, and to provide their options for legislative action. All analyses should be completed by mid-September. On this basis, we intend to initiate and process the draft in the autumn. In order to analyse the impact of public support measures on pharmacies in rural areas and the survival of the pharmacy service, invitations to tender were sent on 27 June and the deadline for submission of tenders is 4 July. These invitations are currently being sent to 12 research companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U63	Questions. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U64	Thank you. Honourable waitress! After all, the Supreme Court did not declare any restrictions against the Constitution, but specifically geographical restrictions on establishment. I would like to point out once again that the closure restrictions were not declared unconstitutional. You can close any time you want, but you can't set up. I was just looking at the Agency's data: there were six rural pharmacies in Jõgeva County last year, five in this year, five in Järvamaa last year, four in this year, 126 in Tallinn last year, 130 in this year. You're not really defending land pharmacies with this geographical restriction. Who are you protecting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U65	Thank you for your question. I have this suspicious feeling that the population in these regions has also fallen. The pharmacy doesn't have to be there just to make sure there's a pharmacy somewhere. I think you could have used more regional policy measures if you were a minister so that people would not move away from rural areas. Secondly, when it comes to land pharmacies, there are, of course, quite a few pharmacies in the country in danger of closing. This is our measure to ensure that the availability of the pharmacy service in the country does not deteriorate and that the pharmacies do not disappear. These same data, to which you have alluded, also say that the 40 to 50 land pharmacies are now in such order that they can continue in the future. Most of these 127 are still in danger of closing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U66	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U67	Dear Heljo, thank you for your report. Your work and that of your colleagues is very, very respectable, and this problem is terribly complex. But right now, the thing is, the market in the city is gone and the pharmacy in the country is gone and nothing has come up. If we now stimulate the creation of pharmacies in the countryside, we will swim against the stream because schools, forest holdings, shops, anything in the country will be shut down. The preservation of pharmacies on the land is a flood of countercurrent swimming, where we generally try to draw life together in the country as slowly as possible. What are these imaginary measures so that pharmacies can still resist this tendency?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U68	Thank you. In fact, this study commissioned by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, which I was referring to here, should identify the possibilities that would help preserve pharmacies in the country and, if necessary, create more. Once the results of the study are clear, we will definitely be dealing with the draft. I think the bill might be coming up in October.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U69	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. You said, in answer to Kiisler's question, that pharmacies in Järvamaa are closed because the population has probably fallen. In fact, with this answer, you also assert that the restriction on business in the pharmacy market does not fulfil its purpose in the country, but illegally restricts the establishment of pharmacies in cities. In fact, the restriction on the freedom to conduct a business is not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U71	Thank you for your question. Thank God there are other people in other rural areas, and pharmacies are certainly needed in these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U72	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U73	Honorable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs referred to regional policy. I am very sorry that there are people in this Chamber, too, who have not yet realised that there is no confrontation between land and city in today's regional policy. If Tõrva has a pharmacy, it will also benefit the residents of Hummul municipality. It's not like if there's anything good in town, it's not good in the country. When you look at the area of activity of people, at the meaning of the triangle where they move daily to their home place, work place or study place and leisure place, it is much bigger today. Rural people, too, generally have at least a few small towns. In such a situation, it is not necessary to oppose the possession of a pharmacy in a city in that area. You're working against the fact that there are more pharmacies in this town. You're actually aggravating the situation of rural people. Read modern - day approaches! It's such an outdated approach that land and city should somehow contrast. We need to get through this once and for all, and we need to be guided by modern concepts. Estonia is the first country in the world to carry out a survey and monitor the daily movement of people, including rural people, on the basis of mobile phones. We have very accurate data on where people live and where people work in the last census. More than three quarters of people living in the countryside work elsewhere than at home, usually in the nearest city or nearby. People's movement takes place along other routes and in different ways. The approach you want to defend here is archaic. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U74	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to say about the restrictions on the establishment of these pharmacies. I wanted to talk about something else, but still with regard to these restrictions on establishment. Look, it turns out that, several years ago, restrictions have been developed and imposed, they are strict, they are being monitored, and we are now trying to change them one way or the other. That's not what this is about at all. The thing is, no matter how you restrict the city's establishment of pharmacies, in order for the pharmacy to work in Tamsalu or Vasknarva, there must be a certain number of people who would buy medicines, or there must be some mechanisms in place to support the preservation of pharmacies, and mechanisms at all in order to preserve life in Tamsalu, for example, where both the post office building and the police station building are currently on sale. They're on sale, they're on sale, so what kind of pharmacy are we talking about? Look, this whole thing took my mind back to yesterday. Yesterday, we were discussing the increase in excise duties. It was explained that alcohol is bad, tobacco is bad, but we put the excise duty on them to make them less consumed. Thus, fuel oil is bad, and electricity is bad, my mother-in-law is quite certain that electricity is what destroys the world, so we keep putting more prices on the table. The Centre Party has repeatedly proposed strict restrictions on alcohol sales, restricting the availability of alcohol. It has always been said that no, it cannot be done, because it would harass a good Estonian producer, who makes it an extremely necessary fluid from his own grown grain, which could be used in the interests of the health of the Estonian people. Under no circumstances must restrictions be imposed, as this could bring down our economy and all kinds of trouble. However, as we can see, there is no problem with imposing restrictions on the activities of pharmacies, we are simply discussing whether it is now 500 or 400 metres between pharmacies. The activities of pharmacies may be limited, but look! So whether the drugs are available to humans or not, it doesn't matter, as long as he still gets a whistle! Of course, the Estonian proverb also says that if there is no disease of death, then empty because of the herb, vodka is still helpful. Now we have reached the point that vodka is extremely important to us. Yesterday, there were several attempts to explain here that the Estonian state should not still stand on vodka. However, it still feeds the Estonian country, feeding the country well. The Estonian tax system is very interesting, one third of it is indirect taxes, excise duties. But the overall tax burden we have is almost the highest among the countries of the European Union, only in Italy it is higher. Other countries with economies at more or less the same level of development as us have an overall tax burden of 30 to 40% or more than 40%, we have 67%, if I remember exactly now. There you go! This vagina still has a pretty important role to play. One day we should use the energy that we may now be using to either restrict pharmacies or shift them from city to country or whatever, even to alcohol. Not by using alcohol to ruin our health and the future of young people. Its consumption still needs to be limited, but not in such a way as to make drinking alcohol a state-faithful activity. With a clear eye, however, we drink alcohol, we get praise for it, and from 1 July, right, even in public. Here's the clapping spot! So alcohol sales must certainly be regulated so that there are as few outlets as possible, not as is currently the case for every resident to take ten minutes to reach the nearest point of sale. This is not necessary at all, because a decent person has a home supply, this point of sale does not have to be ten minutes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-07-01_U76	Honourable Riigikogu, I will close the negotiations. Let me remind you that we are discussing the Chancellor of Justice proposal 28. With this proposal, the situation is that the Riigikogu must make a decision. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and the Committee on Social Affairs does not support it either. As President of the sitting, I must put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Let's start preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. The Chancellor of Justice has 8 votes against and 58 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was not supported. The extraordinary session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.55 p.m.
