ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Let's start today's briefing. Let's do the presence check first. 30 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 71 missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U2	Let's begin. We have a lot of questions today. The first question is Mr Tarmo Tammelt to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, athletic Prime Minister! Recently, the poor financial situation of sports clubs has risen to the agenda. This is linked to the fact that most sports clubs pay coaches a scholarship, which means that social tax and other taxes levied by the state are not paid. Sport clubs are now in a difficult situation because they do not have the financial resources, and many sports clubs may have to stop this year. What solution do you see, Prime Minister, so that young people can continue to engage in sport and not end up on the street? How can this difficult situation be resolved so that the tax authorities are satisfied and sports clubs can continue to operate?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U4	Thank you. Of course, both the government and the legislator must acknowledge their omissions here and the failure that has been made, because the current regulations are not unambiguous for sports clubs. This is why, in about 30% of cases, coaches have been paid wages and, in one of them, all the necessary taxes have been paid according to national law, but 70% have not been paid taxes and the coaches have not been paid wages, but scholarships have been paid. In my opinion, it is not possible to point the finger at sports clubs and accuse them of tax fraud and other bad intentions. If this thing's gotten so massive, there's probably been a way to interpret the law in different ways. Control has also not been effective enough at an early stage and has not sent unambiguous signals. If our courts have taken an unambiguous view in several decisions that salary cannot be replaced by a scholarship, that if there is an employment relationship, you have to pay your salary and you have to pay all the taxes you need, then we must all respect these decisions. But since we understand that there is no one-sided fault here, the state must come to the aid of sports clubs so that they can pay the taxes honestly. From next year, a €3.5 million grant has been planned for sports clubs so that they can pay out all the coaches' salaries as salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U5	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! This additional EUR 3.5 million will be paid next year. How are sports clubs supposed to deliver this year? I also ask whether the reason for this problem is not in 2009 when the negative budget reduced the income base of local governments and removed their obligation to deal with young people and youth sport. Should we not quickly restore the former situation, allocate money to local governments for it, and also give them an obligation to continue to engage in youth and youth sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U7	Thank you. No, it is not the beginning of this problem now in 2009; it is much older. I remember how I faced exactly the same problems as the mayor of Tartu, and I also remember how there were some litigation at the time. True, a little later, I recall a specific case where a basketball player was told the contract with the club, the basketball player was not happy with the termination of such a quick contract, and he went to court to obtain the right. The Court found that this relationship, which, although it was paid with a scholarship, was essentially an employment relationship and provided for any compensation arising from the employment relationship in the event of the termination of the contract. In my opinion, even as a result of the judgments at the time, all clubs should also have concluded that renaming the wage ratio as a scholarship relationship does not change the nature of this employment relationship. Even then, all clubs would actually have had to comply with the law and pay all necessary taxes on wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U8	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. As we know, not all municipalities lost sports schools, and many municipalities have also started restoring or creating sports schools. This creates a situation where coaches have a fortress, they receive a fixed salary, and the state does not miss taxes either. How do you feel about restoring sports schools, and was it a mistake to lose sports schools in your time? We know that sports schools exist in many European countries, developed and advanced countries. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U10	Thank you. The transition to a club system was certainly not a mistake, and in very many countries sports clubs have been very successful. Sports clubs have also ensured that different generations work together, and this together has produced very good results. The biggest problem for Estonian sports clubs is that I regard their small size and also that age groups are relatively limited. We have not developed such large clubs as can be found in Germany, for example. In Germany, it is common for a sports club to have 10,000 members, even 30,000 members, in one city only. These sports clubs bring together the youngest, four, five and six-year-olds, young athletes who want to be top athletes, top athletes and veteran athletes. And when veterans are no longer able to play sports, they still want to give something to the club. They do useful work for the club: paint over the rail pipe or peel up the ground from the football gate and put in a new lawnware. They also want to give something when they are too weak for sport. In my opinion, one of the great values of sports clubs is that their members support each other. Veterans who have made more progress in life consider it worthwhile to create scholarships or to donate scholarships from their own pockets to talented young athletes. These are all very good initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U11	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Before I ask a question, I would like to admit to some sadness in my soul that our dialogues will soon not continue in this Chamber in this form if you are no longer the Prime Minister. These were very meaningful and entertaining, and many expressions, such as foil caps, which grew out of our two speeches, go to the gold fund of Estonian political folklore. So thank you for that! The specific question, however, is this: do you think that the young Prime Minister will be able to continue the path you have started, both in the field of sport and at all? I have a slight suspicion, but how do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U13	Thanks for the compliment. I am, of course, glad that I too have been able to give something to the folklore gold fund. I'm sure the new prime minister can do his job. Does he add anything to the folklore gold fund? Your question has nothing to do with the financing of sport, but let it be. I hope that the new Prime Minister will respond resolutely to stupidity as I did. Let us remember what all this, these seeds and foil, bounced off. After all, this was a specific article on the Evening Festival, which contained a series of stupid words about how farmers can no longer sow seeds, because everything is patented and seen, it is done with the farmer, all of us without work and bread. Or the fact that Estonia can no longer be a transit country for illegal medicines. Hello winter, what else would we want, to be a drug transit country or whatever? One piece of my old answer went to the media, and this passage, torn out of context, began to live an independent life, no one remembers what the context was all about. Let this be a lesson for both speakers and mediators. I hope that the new Prime Minister will always be able to keep all his sayings in the necessary context.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U14	Colleagues, I have a request to keep myself on the subject right now! This is about funding sport. We'll have time afterwards, and then we can talk about all kinds of seeds and other things. Please, my colleague, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! However, I will come back to the financing of sport and ask you how you think those sports clubs that have received their decisions, some of which have also been challenged in court, should continue to behave. There's a lot of money gone, and this rock's still grinding, so there's no waiting for it to stop right now. Or do you see any movement?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U16	Thank you. I do not foresee that the proportion of funding for sport should change very much in Estonia. We are close enough to the proportions that have developed in the developed Member States of the European Union. That, for example, the role of the state or local government in financing sport may increase over and over again, I do not consider it likely. In the world in general, the share of the state and local government in financing sport is even slightly smaller than we have. The share of sponsors is more or less the same level or slightly higher than our share. The main challenge remains with households everywhere in the world, including in other Member States of the European Union. In most cases, about 80% of the total funding for sport will inevitably be borne by households. The role of the state must certainly be the same in the future as it is today. The state must secure investments in sports facilities The state must also support youth sport and top sport through sub-unions, but youth sport is also mostly financed more from the local government level in Europe. I believe that in Estonia, local authorities will continue to take up and occupy young people in the future, just as they have done today. However, due to the small size of our clubs, one coach's economy, the coaches must be guaranteed social guarantees, and at least this minimum target is set for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U18	The next question is for Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, my colleague Ester Tuiksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! The Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act allows the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for rail transport, shipping, agricultural machinery, heating and heat and electricity production. The new coalition, which is born, has provided as one of the sources of financial cover for the restriction of the use of specially labelled liquid fuel in the coalition agreement. In what areas is the use of specially labelled liquid fuel to be banned, and how much could it reduce the cost of taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U20	Thank you. I am glad that I do not have to speculate on the figures, because you have given me this opportunity. The subject of the question is taxes, so you didn't give me the opportunity to prepare. But the fact that we want to limit the use of specially labelled fuel, I can confirm. We would really like to eliminate the special fuel labeled at all, but since it is not possible to offer compensation mechanisms in every area, for example in agriculture and small-scale fishing, we intend to keep this system. Supporting someone on the basis of how much he can burn fossil fuels is not right, and the European Union will probably ban it at one point. As far as I am concerned, such a directive is already sprouting at the level of the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U21	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You're such a big professional that you probably know all the numbers by heart, so that shouldn't be a problem for you. Specially labelled fuel has been talked about in agriculture for quite a long time, about changing the system of its use. When your government started its work, it was a very topical issue, and now it is a dead end. Are you really counting on directives coming from Europe to get rid of this problem, or what kind of plans do you have? Or can you propose something over the course of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U23	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U24	Thank you. I really know all the numbers from zero to nine and their combinations too. However, the question was about agriculture, and I have already said that there is no plan to change the system at the moment. However, I am keeping my fingers crossed so that Europe can agree on this. In the context of the whole climate and energy policy, it is quite inappropriate that the burning of fossil fuels is the basis on which someone can receive support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Let's not talk about agriculture, let's talk about home expenses. Many private houses, as well as some apartment buildings, are currently heating with specially labelled fuel oil. The excise duty on light fuel oil is EUR 110,95 per thousand litres. If specially labelled fuel is no longer allowed to be used for heating, how much could home expenses increase instead of reducing your government's home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U26	Thank you. Home expenses less than in this has been our government's common policy and is also the government's own. That is why, for several years now, I have been calling for the creation of a support mechanism that would allow home boilers to be replaced for more efficient ones. Even now, oil heating is expensive, but probably the price of changing the boiler is what limits the homeowners. In itself, heating a house with oil is not the dominant way of heating, but we could get rid of it at all, it's just too expensive for the homeowner. To this end, a measure is also planned in the new EU budget for structural resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U27	A question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Tamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U28	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the plans of the new coalition, the huge number of subsidies that people have been waiting for for years will increase. You are the Minister of Finance in the current government, and you are probably the Minister of Finance in the next government. These are good decisions; people have long wanted to find solutions to these issues. But why didn't you make those decisions in the previous government? Who were the brakes in the previous government that wouldn't let you make good decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U29	Thank you. My colleague on the right also thought that I had said that IRL would not let me. In fact, this government had its own plans and expenses, which were also kind of noble, but it was, of course, very difficult to accommodate anything else. In any case, the new government will have greater opportunities to be flexible and redirect costs from new agreements also in favour of the good plans that we have received in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U30	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U31	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! My question also concerns specially labelled fuel. We know that during your reign, the transit sector has largely returned. Port volumes and railway volumes have decreased almost twice. Last year we adopted a maritime law that made the situation of shipping more difficult. If there is now additional taxation on fuels used by rail and ships, what will this sector look like? How deeply have you examined the consequences of this tax in the transit sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U32	Thank you. The share of transit has decreased especially during the Putin Government, and this has been Russia's strategic stance towards us. I believe that we may rather be relieved to breathe, that we had enough foresight not to contribute too much to this risk, which could be very tragically realised at any moment or simply realised in an economic way. Transit has never been a gold mine for society as a whole, but only for one narrow piece, but it is not for the whole of society to work too hard for it. How are these transport sectors going to cope, isn't that a longer story, which will be the concern of the next government?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U34	Since we still have a lot of time, everyone has the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister and ministers. So quick fingers, if anyone wants to ask. Please, colleague Priit Toobal! Who do you want to ask a question to?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The question is about the comparison you once used in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, that the distribution of outright subsidies is like the sowing of money from an airplane. As we know, the new coalition has come up with a proposal that this very child benefit, which is intended for all, will increase almost 2.5 times. Yesterday, the Reform Party approved this coalition agreement in its council. You are the chairman of the Reform Party, so you too had to agree and vote in favour of the coalition agreement. Have you changed your point of view on this issue and do you think that the granting of such outright subsidies is no longer a matter of seeding money off an airplane?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U36	Thank you. I haven't changed my point of view. I do not consider this to be a very clever activity, if money is collected equally from everyone, then administration and administration costs are deducted and then distributed equally to everyone. I think it is possible to spend taxpayers' money much more effectively. Speaking specifically about family benefits, child support, I am certainly a need-based supporter of child support, because I am convinced that the state must provide assistance to those who need it most. It is, of course, a good thing that there is a multiplicity of opinions in society, that there is not only one opinion. It is a pity, of course, that my opinion is currently in the hands of the overwhelming majority. But I have had nine years to lead the government according to my understanding and beliefs, and these nine years ago I am grateful to the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U37	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U38	Thank you. I have a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. You've seen this change of power closer than I have. I wasn't allowed in that room, but you were there. After all, this took place according to the classical public procurement scheme, three bidders. Okay, one of you didn't qualify. For a long time, negotiations were held with one and the other, with a bid from the State, no more and no less. The price of the outsourced service should have fallen at that time, but now it turns out that more ministerial seats were made, unemployment security was lowered, which could have been done a long time ago, some hidden reserves were found, which Jürgen Ligi had always said there were no. Didn't the Socots get too big a piece of the pie, just as they always had the habit of getting, let alone that such a combination of reformists and soccer people looks like an unnatural way to satisfy political passion?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U39	Thank you. There's something totally wrong with your social approach. The wrong approach is the one, the other or the third party should get a big piece. If anyone gets a big piece, it is the Estonian people. But I understand your question being raised. The Centre Party wants to get a piece of taxpayers' money on its own. It is normal for political parties to stand up for the interests of their electorate and, when they are in government or in pursuit of government, to try to defend them to the maximum. The maximum protection of interests certainly does not mean that you should take a piece of your own. However, as regards being close to the process of forming a coalition, you have obviously also noted my position in the press on this matter. I have had the opportunity to lead the formation of coalitions, the formation of governments in nine years, and I do not consider it justified in any way to continue this activity in another tenth or thirteenth year. I have very clearly distanced myself from these issues. I want new decision-makers to have the opportunity to make their own decisions according to their own convictions, their best understanding, which means, among other things, the right to make their own mistakes. I myself have not had to make decisions on the formation of coalitions or on the basis of other tips or guidelines in programming positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will give the opportunity to ask a question to those who have the first question. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U41	Thank you. I will ask the Minister for Finance. The promises and plans of the new coalition, all these tax changes, are mainly related to the next year, 2015. As Minister of Finance, how do you assess whether the new coalition should make a round of the state budget this year or do something about it? According to my estimate, this year's budget will not be completed in the planned amount. Do you think otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U42	Thank you. There are no signs that this year's budget will not be implemented, in fact, on the tax revenue side. Since we have also built this year's budget on structural balance, the economic cycle itself must not foresee automatic cuts. A cut can be made if there is really a question of longer sustainability. I would still say that this growth figure, which is starting at zero, does not show the growth of our economy, not just the tax revenue, but the increase in volume automatically correct. I saw a headline on the subject today. I couldn't find the article in the paper. But the fact that we have real growth and nominal growth in such a large disproportationation here could be some kind of statistical problem. In any case, the detonator is very large and the detonator includes, for example, changes in the relationship between export and import prices, also shows labour prices, wage increases, which are all positive sides of the economy. This real growth is not something that automatically says something about budgetary tension.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U43	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question is to Mr Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Good minister! About a few years ago, you proposed that the Academy of Home Affairs could transfer to Ida-Viru County, so that it would be a good and right step in terms of internal defence. Would you mind saying in a few words how far this idea has come in realization? Do you think at least this will work out for college?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U45	Thank you for your question. This is the case, IRL's position has been for some time that one of the steps to increase Estonia's security would be to move the connected complex of the Estonian Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County. We believe that this would be a sensible step, both in economic policy and in security policy and regional policy. It must be admitted that in the last five years, there has not been much idea of how to help become a better county in Ida-Viru County, for which we can really say that it is a county with an Estonian mindset and also an Estonian language. It has been one of the most concrete ideas, and that is what we have stood for. Very frankly, as the Prime Minister who is leaving now has said, we have had our differences, there has been no consensus in the current coalition to make this decision a reality. What have we done? We have carried out a very thorough analysis of the various impacts and some of the analyses are still being finalised. At least EUR 15 million is also foreseen for the transfer of the National Defence Academy over the period of the new financial perspective and additional resources are likely to be provided. So I guess that's the decision the country has to make. First of all, today's National Defence Academy is taking over too much territory; this school can be managed in a much more reasonable way. Secondly, I think that the cadets and faculty of the Academy of Home Affairs could bring new breathing and new life to Ida-Virumaa. This has been a position that I have defended here. Let's see how we move forward with this idea in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U46	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U47	Thank you, Madam President. My question is also for the honourable Minister of the Interior. The weekend was very sad for Estonia, young people died. My deepest condolences to their loved ones! These are not the first young people who have died this year, nor have they died at all, and certainly not the last. According to the media data, the cause was poorly maintained tea and rapidly formed black ice. I know tea is not in your field. But have you worked with other ministries to deal with it so that there are no such accidents and losses in a small Estonian country?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U48	Thank you very much for your question. What is happening in traffic is, of course, one issue that also concerns other authorities. As you know, the Transport Committee is headed by the Minister of Economic Affairs. The wider cooperation between the police and the Road Administration, especially through the Committee on Traffic, is, in my opinion, one of the key points for improving the traffic situation. I am pleased that in the last three years, the number of road accidents, the number of road fatalities and the number of road accidents with injuries has decreased considerably. But we have no reason to rejoice. The accident you referred to and last year's Lihula accident show that there is a great deal to be done. They must have been very different accidents. What happened in Lihula, near Haapsalu, was very clearly the result of the criminal behaviour of these road users themselves, in particular the behaviour of the driver, but also the behaviour of passengers. In the case of this weekend, these were really bad weather conditions, bald ice that caused the tragic consequences. More money has been allocated over the past year to improve traffic control and enforcement, as well as to increase road safety and preventative work. The result is that, in many respects, we have reached the European average. However, there is still a significant difference between us and the Nordic countries. In my opinion, there are three important things when we are talking about traffic. Firstly, effective traffic surveillance, and I can assure you that we have certainly ensured this in the last two or three years. Secondly, strict penalties for those who are acting criminally in traffic. Thirdly, significantly more money and attention to prevention and road safety, in particular by increasing visibility, with a view to light road users, i.e. pedestrians and, for example, riders.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U49	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U50	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The question is about waiting allowances. You're about to be a outgoing minister. We've been discussing this waiting fee with you for a long time, but ultimately we haven't got anywhere. The standstill fee is still charged to the owners of passenger cars, whether or not they are using the waiting area service at all. Are you satisfied with yourself, even though you didn't solve the problem? If you had continued as a minister, what would you have done to improve people's situation? And if you remain in the opposition, are you not going to criticise the fact that it is now time to tackle the problem of waiting areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U51	Thank you for your question. I certainly cannot take the credit that I, as Minister of the Interior, would have solved the issue of the waiting area, because the decision, which significantly contributed to the elimination of border queues, queues in front of Estonian border crossing points, was taken before me. I thought it was the right thing to do. The result is that we are now living in a different era than just 3 to 4 years ago. Kilometers' queues at border crossing points were a common phenomenon, the resulting damage to Estonian society and certainly to local residents was significant. Today, we do not see these queues in Estonia. We see that the border crossing in Estonia is smooth and convenient. These disputes that we have had with you, the honourable questioner, concern the waiting period. My estimate is the same: there is also a fee for the various services provided to border crossings, and I believe that border crossings must be paid by the person who crosses the border and uses the service, not by the whole of society as taxpayers. This decision has also been taken by Parliament, it was made in 2010 with an amendment to the State Border Law, and I think it was the right decision. If we want to change this, it can be done, but it means a significantly larger investment by the taxpayer, that is, a clear, fundamental choice. In my opinion, the current system makes sense, it is a European e-Border Crossing System. Estonia is the first country to adopt it. This is something that many other countries want to adopt as we do, including Finland, from which we usually follow, but now the opposite is the case. So I am sorry, but I think that the issues of border crossings in Estonia have been resolved very well in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U52	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U53	Thank you. My question is to the Prime Minister. Yesterday I heard on the radio that some smart heads offer future Russian Gazprom natural gas not to buy or reduce purchases. I'd like to hear your opinion. How do you view such a call?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U54	Thank you. I am a supporter of a liberal market economy, and for nine years I have been working to ensure that Estonia is not an isolated island in terms of energy, but that Estonia also has energy connections with neighbouring countries. The development of the electricity market has progressed quite well. We now have two Estlink cables, connecting Estonian and Finnish networks to 1000 megawatts, which is a very large volume. This is the level of our normal consumption. Consumption has never exceeded 1600 megawatts and the minimum consumption is 400 megawatts in the warm summer. So our energy security in terms of electricity consumption is now quite something else than it was years ago. The construction of a gas pipeline between Balticconnector, Estonia and Finland also gives us exactly the same effect. When we combine markets, security of supply is quite something else than it is now. The availability of LNG also means increased security of supply for Estonia. If it is possible to choose between several suppliers, the price paid for the goods will probably also be the cheapest. In the future, we should also stand for many suppliers to be able to sell their products to the Estonian market, which is why we should pay even more attention to establishing connections in energy matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U55	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister of the Interior! At the moment, there is another minister working in the same building as you, a regional minister without a portfolio. We have heard that the new coalition is losing this ministerial post without a portfolio and creating two new positions: one Minister for Social Coherence and the other, I think, was the Minister for Transport. How true do you think it is that the position of Minister of Regional Affairs will be abolished in a situation where the country is more in decline? Do you think the decision made by the new coalition is a wise one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U57	Thank you for your question. We have had disagreements on this issue in previous years. In my opinion, this is not a sensible decision. The portfolio of the Minister of Regional Affairs is justified; we have made an exception to this in the laws of the Republic of Estonia. It has really been the only ministry with two ministers so far. Addressing regional cohesion and the work that the Minister for Regional Affairs has done on civil society and, for example, on religious issues, have, in my opinion, been well-founded. Of course, the administrative reform, which we consider to be one of the clear reforms, could have saved the state's costs, made the country more sensible, better managed also at the municipal level. Unfortunately, the coalition so far has not done so, and that is certainly a pity. As far as these decisions are concerned in general, we really consider this to be an increase in bureaucracy, so that there will be more ministers in the next temporary government than in the current government. I dare doubt that such a decision is correct in a situation where we are essentially in a state of economic stagnation, due in particular to the difficult economic climate in the countries around us and, more generally, in Europe. I think we should be very conservative and responsible in monetary policy, but from the incoming temporary government, we will rather hear unscathed promises. I think this is a very serious concern, given the security situation, which could, of course, escalate to the more negative parts of the economy. I think we're going to have a very difficult time. I am not sure if the incoming government is ready for this. Rather, we hear the opposite: promises are made, which are characteristic of the year 2008, and a parade of great promises was made, which ended with wage cuts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U58	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U59	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Mr. Ligi, present and future Minister of Finance! I've always admired you as a brilliant specialist with high-level budget technology. I have always had this feeling that every euro that is in the state budget has been through your fingers, stored, you know him face-to-face, and you give no cents to cover the claims of the opposition, because there are simply no cents. Now all of a sudden, there's a Taavi in the garment who's next to you in Taavi's garment and says, look, I found a number of places where you can get five to ten million, we can meet all the demands of the new partners. What does that mean? Did you really have such a hidden surplus that you had hidden somewhere in the bottom of the drawer, and wouldn't Taavi Kõiva find similar large, hidden supplies there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U60	Thank you. I'm dizzy now, and I don't think I really noticed a question. That was great! I also, of course, thought about the previous answer that my colleague gave. We have no intention of increasing the operating costs due to the withdrawal of a minister from the government. However, we have noticed that one minister without a portfolio has expanded his team over the years. I think there's money there to pay for one extra minister's salary and a desk, more than enough. I've answered endlessly the questions about where the money was found. In the process of budgeting, we'll write down all the numbers more accurately and make them public. But in the negotiations, let me say again, we were strictly guided by structural coverage, if there is any structural cost, it must be covered by structural austerity or structural revenue. The flexibility of the new government to make changes in budgetary expenditure is much greater. The old government tended to be too rigid to raise the current budgets. I don't think it's inevitable, but it's real. And what to deny, a party that did not have a finance minister or a prime minister, was always far more pretentious than the new coalition partner. This amount seems very large, but compared to what we have wrestled in all budgetary procedures, this amount is not high.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U61	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! Since you really are saying that you have recently found all the budget reserves and reserves, I will ask you specifically. Did you now find the money to finance the new rural development plan in the maximum amount that was mentioned at the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U63	Thank you. I don't know what this maximum is, is there an endless line of 0's that goes beyond the horizon? I didn't say there were some big reserves discovered anywhere. I can say quickly that we have indeed found 15 million reserves through better, more effective financial management. The rural development plan, however, has confirmed that, since 2006, the principle of government applies to the co-financing of European money, which is the minimum possible budget commitment. One ministry really tried to break that principle. I cannot agree with that, but the government can always make different decisions. Until they are done, I cannot accept any other number than has been in the politics of several successive governments. By discussing the table now, we are also considering what these real agricultural costs are. It is certainly not the case that someone simply keeps the money if the need is less than agreed. You can't accept that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U64	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U65	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Minister of Finance! I believe the new government will be fresher and more vibrant. But like our Prime Minister Ansip, I do not think this matter of over-the-counter subsidies is right. Why do my four grandchildren have to get support when their fathers and mothers can handle their children? It has been said a lot that "need-to-need" money is very difficult and costly. I don't know what's so complicated. Get this system ready and offer! I think it would be more appropriate to support those who need support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U66	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U67	Thank you. Fortunately, this support system has been set up, there is a need-based element and this element is also growing. I also support the need-based element in particular, although I understand the criticism of small universal support. I certainly would have written a different coalition agreement, but it wouldn't have gotten anywhere. At home, you can write all kinds of things. People who consider that they do not need universal support have every opportunity to leave the application unwritten. And their grandfathers, too, have the opportunity to make the savings of the state budget a reality. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will ask about the future Euro Commissioner's person. Unlike us, you've seen the new coalition treaty. It was confirmed yesterday by the Reform Party Council. Does the new coalition agreement also divide the new Euro Commissioner's seat between two political parties, the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party? Which party holds this position under the treaty, and who could be the person from the Reform Party or the Social Democratic Party who will fill the new Euro Commissioner? Has there been a speech within the Reform Party that you could go to Estonia after Siim Kallas to represent the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U69	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U70	Thank you. As far as I know, the Euro Commissioner's seat is not the subject of coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U71	I have a question for the Prime Minister, because he is in Question Time for the last time. Was the Prime Minister satisfied with the work of the Riigikogu opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U72	Today is a very good day for Priit Toobal, the fourth question already. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U73	First of all, I am not convinced that I am in Question Time for the last time as Prime Minister. We are most likely to meet here at least once more in this context. However, I do not allow myself to make an assessment as Prime Minister of the opposition, coalition or Riigikogu as a whole. On the contrary, the coalition, the opposition and the Riigikogu as a whole evaluate the government and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the Prime Minister was quite vague in his reply to the Commissioner for the euro, I ask you this. If future Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas would propose to you, as President of the Reform Party, to take the seat of the Euro Commissioner and assure you that there is an agreement and government support for this, would you be willing to take this post?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U75	Thank you. First of all, the Riigikogu must have a new prime minister in office, then it makes sense to talk about who it might propose to. But I understand what you're asking me, and I've given you the answer from this very speaker. Yeah, I'm starting to think this place is tempting for me, and I'd be interested in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U76	Looks like there's no more questions. No, it is. Please, hurry up! My colleague Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U77	Thank you, good manager. This question is motivated by the previous question. The Prime Minister has announced to the public that he will come to the Riigikogu after his resignation. Therefore, we should see him again in this Question Time, because the seats of the Commission will be distributed a long time later, several months later. Has the Prime Minister changed his mind or will we see him in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U78	After all, all the commissioners have been filled, there is no point in anyone running for office, there are no vacant seats. When the new government takes office, I'm going to work for the Riigikogu, and I feel, good Imre, that I'm going to sit right behind you, right behind you. I hope this will be a pleasant experience for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U79	Let's finish Question Time. Thank you very much, colleagues, for asking questions. Thank you very much, ministers and Prime Minister, for your answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U80	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary of Defense. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Colleagues, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Mr Toom, would you like to take a stand? Please press the right button! Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister for Education and Science, who is Jaak Aaviksoo at the moment, but the next Minister for Education and Science will probably have to answer. The issue of inquiry is needs-based learning grants. A similar question has already been put to the procedure. We are concerned that the income of the family, or biological parents, is not taken into account when granting needs-based education support. Those present may remember that Mr Aaviksoo replied last time that there was no problem. On that point, I sent him specific family documents, along with a question of how this problem could be resolved. I received exactly the same answer as the one that started a few months ago when this family received a negative response from the Ministry of Education and Research. I hope the dead circle gets broken somehow. That is why we are asking the Minister for Education and Research how the need-based system of education grants is to be changed. We are interested, among other things, in whether there are many of the 3,000 students who have lost need-based education support who have been deprived of it precisely because the income of biological parents is taken into account, rather than the actual income of the household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U82	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it to the addressee immediately. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First, the draft law of the Tallinn University of Technology, initiated on 17 March by the Government of the Republic, whose commission is the Committee on Culture. Secondly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 March, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment. Thirdly, the draft law on the amendment of the Veterinary Order Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 March and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Rural Affairs Commission. Fourthly, the draft law on structural support for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 March, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Fifthly, the draft law on collective agreement and collective labour dispute resolution initiated by the Government of the Republic on 17 March, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. Sixthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from the Gambling Tax, submitted on 17 March by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, whose commission is the Finance Committee. Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's session of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu has agreed to this. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added to the agenda of today's Riigikogu with the political statement of the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu. Now, colleagues, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu have been registered and 18 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U83	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. First of all, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu will make a political statement. Colleagues, I'll introduce you to what's going on after this. After a presentation by the Minister of Defence, which lasts up to 20 minutes, each member of the Riigikogu is able to ask a question to the rapporteur. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, to the speaker's seat, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U84	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As the outgoing Minister of Defence, I decided to make a political statement before the Riigikogu in order to focus on what has been done in the field of defence in recent years, but also on the tasks we are facing and on our purposes. Statements like this, as you well know, are not normal. However, Estonia's security environment is not the norm in these weeks and probably in the coming months and years. Although the development of Estonia's own military defence is based on long-term plans based on political parties' consensus on fundamental defence issues, the crisis in our immediate neighbourhood has had a profound impact on the security of the whole of Europe, especially for countries bordering Russia. At the moment, there is no more urgent question in Estonia than security. As you know, ten years of our NATO membership will come true in those days. Estonia's defence capabilities have changed a lot since then, but the alliance itself has also changed. Although there are many critics and skeptics, I am convinced that the current NATO is militarily stronger than a decade ago. It is true that defence spending in Europe as a whole is a cause for concern, as in several allied countries they are still in a downward trend from the economic crisis. Today, however, NATO has actually practiced, militaryly hardened, and experienced organization. Since Russia's aggression against Georgia in 2008, we no longer need to constantly preach the importance of collective defence as a salesman in Brussels or with our allies. The principle of collective protection based on Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty has become self-evident even after the Cold War and has once again become NATO's main task. In recent weeks, a number of Western politicians have assured me that they have only now realised that all these years, when they thought we were a panicker, we were actually right. If Georgia's war was an unpleasant alarm clock for a large part of the Western world, then what is happening in Ukraine is a fire alarm or geopolitical earthquake. The international community was unexpectedly presented with the fact that in 21st-century Europe things are happening in a way that one country invades a neighbouring country with its army, is holding a referendum and annexing its territory, without the cover of any moral or international law. The Estonian state must do everything in the international arena to ensure that arrogance is answered and the crime punished. We also probably have cynics who ask why Estonia cares about what is happening in South Ossetia, Abkhazia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine at all. I hope that most people will understand that if such behaviour is accepted in international relations, there can be no peace of sleep between the neighbours of any such aggressor country and not just the neighbours. As Russian citizens live in all European countries, according to Moscow's rhetoric, a Crimea-like scenario could come to re-discover wherever, if necessary also actors, stage artists and costumes can be found. In view of the Kremlin's current stoic response to Western warnings, such referendums can no longer be considered completely excluded in the future. On the contrary, it may become a new pattern. Just read the speech yesterday by the President of Russia, where he explained the appalling motives of his actions. At the same time, I assure everyone and emphasise once again that the Republic of Estonia does not have to be afraid. We're well protected, better than ever. However, Russia's behaviour must bring about a fundamental change in the way we see and contribute to our own security. Next to us, this must be done by the entire democratic Western world. Unexpectedly, but unfailingly, we live in a new security environment. Let us ask ourselves how to remain ourselves and independent in this environment underfoot of international law, what we must do in the past, what we must change or rethink. I would like to stress that I believe that the Estonian state is prepared internally for a deteriorating security situation. I will mark the main developments and topics that have characterised our military defence in recent years. Firstly, the guiding principle of our current National Defence Development Plan is to create the most effective, effective and credible defence forces in the context of limited resources. We have carefully analyzed the consequences of the Russian-Georgian war. Today's war is fast, the conflict may arise unexpectedly, and the opponent will not give in for a long time to prepare for it. On the basis of this assumption, we have reformed the Defence Forces and moved strongly from the paper army to the real-world and best equipped Defence Forces. We cannot afford the luxury of planning and building and developing a force of dreams that may be ready in 20 years' time. We need a defense force that can be used immediately. Secondly, we have taken decisions that reduce bureaucracy in the Defence Forces and have focused on increasing the actual defence capabilities of the Defence Forces. Our objective is a fully equipped and armed rapid response structure. We have decided to establish modern training conditions on the basis of already existing infrastructure. We have reduced the staff and harmonised the control chains for war and peace. Thirdly, Russia's aggression in Ukraine, as well as large-scale unplanned exercises behind our eastern border, prove the priority of intelligence and pre-warning capabilities. This area must remain a priority in the future. Our ability to organize special operations is rapidly evolving. I also mention infantry battle vehicles, mobile cannons and anti-tanks from major and major procurements. The work on these procurements is underway. The Ämari airfield is ready to receive and operate allies' planes. However, we cannot talk about defence without voluntary desires. According to all indicators, this is considerable in Estonia. Young people are especially delighted with the will of action. I call on all citizens to join the Defence League, but also to express their public gratitude to the veterans who served in foreign operations. I am proud that our society has not become a European welfare society in a bad way, characterised by moral abandonment and self-evident security. On Monday, I approved a new plan to involve volunteers more in Estonian national defence. All people must be able to contribute according to their interests and abilities. Much has been done, but a new reality requires more from us. The Estonian state must not cease to function under military or other crisis conditions. We need to follow a broad approach to defence with content. For the first time last month, the government adopted a comprehensive national defence development plan. Military defence is the main pillars of national defence, but not the only one. Almost all ministries have a duty to think on the basis of national defence needs, and the national defence coordination function must function at the State Chancellery across ministries. To this end, a legislative framework needs to be considered. The Ministry of Defence is working on a draft National Defence Act, which should see the light of day by the end of this year. A valid national defence strategy, four years ago, also needs to be updated. From the point of view of military defence capabilities, it is not just a question of 2% as a figure. The question is that we need to develop our own military defence capability at a faster pace. We need two brigades in the interests of real defence. We will have the capacity of one of the brigade in a year. At the current level of funding, the second brigade will be fully armed and equipped after 2018. We must make an effort and achieve this level of supply earlier, with the first brigade fully equipped with armoured manoeuvring capabilities. I am pleased to inform Parliament that our negotiations with the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands already promise to conclude an agreement this year so that Estonia will have the first infantry battle vehicles next year. Against this background, I call on the political parties represented in Parliament to discuss and conclude a cross-party national defence agreement. Its aim is to send a clear signal to the Estonian society and our public and private sectors about the importance of defence, but also to agree on the main objectives of the coming years, based in principle on the changed security situation. Happy attendees! Once again, I want to come back to the international dimension. In September, there will be a NATO summit in Wales. It is in our interest that the central message of the summit is that NATO's main task in changed circumstances is collective defence. It must be furnished with concrete action to ensure that NATO maintains the interoperability capacity of the Afghan operation for large-scale military operations in the interests of collective defence. This requires above all allied relations between North America and Europe. This requires a serious European contribution to common defence, and we must not rely on America constantly. This also requires swift, smart and determined action to strengthen collective protection. As the first country in Europe, Estonia proposed concrete proposals for NATO to increase the deterrence capacity of the alliance. A larger number of air security planes in the Baltic region are the first result. The United States sent their planes to our region just a few days after the request. The decision to send their warplanes here was also announced by the British government on Monday. I have seen, heard and understood for myself in two years what Estonia's security display is internationally. It is not the image of the periphery, it is the image of a serious ally, a country that does what it says, and does not allow it to slide on the back of others. The image based on content is the most valuable currency in a small country. When I prepared today's speech, I remembered how a few months ago I was ironed out in the United States, the thought that we missed the tanks of the United States that left Europe and that we needed the military presence of the allies in Estonia. I am pleased to say that a few weeks ago, the United States brought back 30 tanks to Europe. The debates that are currently in the Washington corridors testify to much more than the United States' willingness to support Europe with just one tank battalion. The security of Europe is now back on the mental maps of the decision-makers of the United States, and this is one of the most central guarantees of our security. We have to work to keep it that way. Yesterday, US Vice President Joe Biden announced in Warsaw that the United States is ready to consider bringing in rotating troops to our region. This is an extremely important and welcome signal. I am pleased to announce that yesterday I reached a fundamental agreement with the Polish Minister for Defence that in the near future Polish anti-aircraft units would participate in the exercises in Estonia. We have a security deficit that must be compensated quickly and effectively. We need the presence of our allies and we need to demonstrate our willingness to contribute more. Much more, we need to work together on security in the Nordic and Baltic regions under changed circumstances. Baltic cooperation has ups and downs. We meet regularly with the Nordic countries, often with the Baltic and Nordic countries, but as long as Finland and Sweden do not belong to NATO, the full potential of regional cooperation has not been achieved. Sweden and Finland are members of NATO for the security of the entire region. The changed security situation shows that it is extremely dangerous to remain on the lookout in a crisis like this. Article 5 of the NATO Treaty applies only to NATO territory. Another seriously depressing factor is the low protection costs of Latvia and Lithuania. It must not be an excuse or an excuse for us, but it is a problem. Today, I wrote a letter to my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues asking them to seriously consider increasing defence spending. This is, of course, an internal political decision in these countries, but inevitably we are seen as three often as one region, as well as in NATO's defence plans. We have similar problems, which is why the answers to them should be comparable; they should not vary several times. Today, tomorrow and in the near future, we must make every effort to ensure that the Ukrainian crisis is as peaceful as possible and that Russia's behaviour is adequately addressed on the international stage. We must honestly admit that the response of the Western world has not been sufficient and that the crisis has escalated. After Georgia's aggression, Russia was not sanctioned enough by the Western world, and this encouraged it to repeat its aggression. If, at the moment, the pressure of the West cannot force the aggressor to retreat, the security crisis in Europe will continue. The ability of the international community to defend its values is a direct security interest in Estonia. At the moment, value policy and interest policy are completely overlapping concepts for the Republic of Estonia. Our society must be strong. I sincerely acknowledge the courage of the Ukrainian people during this crisis. They have not succumbed to a massive information war or provocation. Coherence of society in a crisis situation is the most decisive factor. In Estonia, too, we need to understand the handwriting of Russia's aggression in the right context: from the point of view of the internal crisis, a crisis between countries is being created, which is going into a security crisis, where force is being used. This is a reality on the basis of which we must draw crucial conclusions also in the field of Estonian internal security. But it's all about social cohesion. Thus, the aggressor first makes an attempt to destroy the sense of public economy. Psychological defenses, each other's sightings and sense of belonging are the foundation of our security. I repeat my point at the outset: we do not need to be afraid. All we have to fear is fear itself. In changed circumstances, we need to change our actions in a passionate way, putting security at the centre. The world is more dangerous today than it was literally yesterday. But we're not alone in this world, and we're not sitting around. Honourable Riigikogu! As Minister of Defence, thank you for your constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U86	Let's keep going. The next item is the second reading of Protocol 15 on the Amendment to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the draft Act on ratification 581. I ask for a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 581 on the Amendment of Protocol No 15 on the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic on 20 January. It was the first time in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 28 January. The first reading of the draft was on 19 February. The first reading was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 6 March, i.e. 10 working days as usual. No amendments were received, only a few linguistic comments were made. The Commission held a second debate on 10 March. The Commission unanimously decided to send the draft to second reading by 19 March and proposes that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U88	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As no amendments have been received, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of Protocol No 15 on the Amendment of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 581. Please vote! 60 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U89	The second reading of the draft Act on Accession to the International Energy Programme, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U90	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 576 provides that Estonia will join the International Energy Programme Agreement and that Estonia will become a full member of the International Energy Agency. In my opinion, it is very important that, at such a difficult time, when the energy markets in Europe and throughout the world are facing major changes due to the situation in Russia, Estonia has the opportunity to have access to in-depth market analyses and data that we can use to solve domestic energy issues and policy making. Participation in the Energy Agency's working groups also gives Estonia more opportunities to contribute to shaping global energy policy. The draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January and the first reading took place on 19 February. Amendments could be tabled until 27 February, but no amendments were received. For the second time, we discussed this draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 10 March. There was no particular debate in the Commission as there were no amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft to its second reading by 19 March and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. These decisions were consensual. I would ask all of you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. As there were no amendments, we can go to the final vote. Colleagues, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on Accession to the International Energy Programme Agreement, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 576. Please vote! 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U92	The second reading of the draft Motor Insurance Act 423 initiated by the Government of the Republic continues. I ask Kristen Michal, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Office, to present this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Draft Motor Insurance Act 423 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 April 2013, almost a year ago. The first reading of the draft act took place on 22 May, the second reading on 3 December. At the time, the commission presented 40 amendments to the assembly. There are now amendments to be examined in plenary. A considerable part of them is normal, but some are substantive. We have dealt with this draft in a thorough and inclusive manner in the spirit of good lawmaking. I am pleased that we have received feedback from entrepreneurs, which has helped us forward. The working group convened a round table and we discussed motor insurance, traffic register and car waste with representatives of the car demolition sector and the Estonian Association of Autos Sales and Service Companies, AMTEL. During the procedure, we organised a number of meetings in the form of a working group. Thank you for your good cooperation with Siiri Tõniste and Linda Lelumeest from the Ministry of Finance, Mart Jesse from the Estonian Motor Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the representative of the Road Administration Lauri Lugna, and, of course, the advisor of the Economic Commission, Marin Danieli! I would also like to thank everyone else for helping to improve this bill. Some of them are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. In the round tables and working group, the main topics of discussion were the points added to the draft Motor Insurance Act, which deal with how to ensure that in the future, unused, already inoperable or incomplete vehicles will be disposed of in proper and environmentally compliant dismantling facilities in Estonia. We discussed this subject. Ministries will continue to work both on improving supervision and on the issue of passive vehicles in the register. For example, the Road Administration has already started providing information to vehicle owners. As a result of the discussion and contacts, AMTEL took the view that a new law was necessary and would support its birth. I welcome this, because it shows that it is possible, if necessary, to achieve a good result by discussing matters further, in accordance with the principles of good regulation. In addition, as has already been said, as a result of the discussions, the ministries will have more clarity about what businesses are waiting for and where to go. I will recall with a few keywords what are the key principles of this nearly year's draft. The aim of the draft is to make the road accident victim's handling more comfortable and the motor insurance contract similar and comparable to other insurance contracts. In addition to motor insurance, we discussed, as has been said, how to set up a traffic register and, at the same time, to ensure that no one left their waste lying around. To this end, the following measures are foreseen: First, suspension of traffic records. This happens when the following conditions are met: Firstly, at least two years have passed since the technical inspection and the last motor insurance policy has also expired two years ago. The entry shall be automatically restored when a technical inspection is carried out. Secondly, the vehicle will be deleted from the register after the police, the Rescue Board or the Environmental Inspectorate have issued a certificate of destruction of the vehicle. Thirdly, the vehicle can be removed from the register if the vehicle has been demolished or destroyed before 1 May 2004. Vehicles for which no roadworthiness test has been carried out since 1 May 2004 may be removed from the register by simplified procedure on the basis of a declaration without proof of destruction. I would also like to remind you that a seasonally used vehicle can be left uninsured for 12 months, provided that it does not participate in traffic. In the event of damage to the vehicle, rehabilitation shall be preferred, not absolute, but if reasonable. In addition, the handling of the damage will become quicker for the victim. The insurer must start reimbursement within 30 days and must explain the reason if, for some reason, the reimbursement is deferred. In the working group and in the Commission, we removed from the draft the upper limit of the insurer's claims in the course of the procedure. This was also my personal conviction, supported by the working group and the Commission. The EUR 3000 recovery limit would protect a guilty driver who has broken the rules, but would be somewhat unfair to proper leaders who should cover this damage. For example, a recovery limit would have been foreseen for drunk driving, stealing and fleeing the scene. The Commission took the view, as has been said, that such a threshold was not needed in the law. The bill also includes non-material damage, if you wish, the treatment of moral damage. Moral or non-material damage is a prerequisite, it does not need to be applied for. In the past, the draft principle was that the maximum amount of compensation for bodily injury or non-material damage would be EUR 3200. As regards the judgments of the Court of Justice, the presumption of non-material damage in the event of minor damage to health starts at EUR 100 and, in particular, in the case of serious damage to health amounts to EUR 3200. Such damage is expected. If the actual loss is greater than this, the person must apply for the additional benefit himself. This change means that the person immediately receives, in addition to other benefits, compensation for non-material damage, i.e. compensation for his or her survivors. If the vehicle is normally based abroad, the driver of the vehicle must be accompanied in Estonia by documents showing that the insurance obligation has been fulfilled. For the sake of clarity, we added that there would no longer be cases in the future where compliance with the obligation could not be verified. The people of Estonia will not change any of this, we have an electronic register and there is no need to carry the policy, it concerns vehicles from other countries. The new principle is to compensate for the loss of value of the vehicle. The reduction in the value of the vehicle shall be compensated if the vehicle is severely damaged and the person claims compensation for the restoration. In this respect, a serious damage limit is considered to be the case if the costs exceed 50% of the market price of the vehicle and the rehabilitation involves a substantial restoration of the shape of the bearing hull or frame. In rural languages, when a serious accident has occurred and the vehicle is then restored, it is possible to ask for compensation for the future loss of the vehicle's value. It protects people's material interests. The vehicle may be restored after the accident, but its market price is lower. The difference is estimated to be compensated. There is no such practice now, but it will probably occur over time. Old vehicles are excluded from automatic insurance obligations. We debated this issue further and then made such a decision. What else did we specify after the second reading was stopped? One such issue was related to the requirements for working and rest periods. This was about whether and how a recovery claim can be made to the employer. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications specified this in Amendment 4. It provides that the causal link between the non-compliance with working and rest time requirements and the accident is expected only in the event of serious misconduct. Therefore, in the case of recovery, the relationship between the infringement and the cause of the accident is assumed if the driver has exceeded the weekly or daily driving time by 25% or more. The employer will always have the opportunity to prove that there is no causal link between the infringement and the accident in the event of serious infringements of the working and rest requirements. This may already be about 15 hours of driving time per day, with a reduced rest period of about 20 hours of driving time per day. This clearly affects road safety and increases the likelihood of accidents occurring. This provision also has an indirect, or preventive, effect so that no one is planted or forced to do so when they are tired. Finally, I will talk about procedural decisions. The commission adopted the decision to send draft law on motor insurance initiated by the Government of the Republic to the plenary session of the Riigikogu to continue second reading by 19 March 2014 with a proposal to finish the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we will have a proposal to refer the draft to the third reading by 26 March and put it to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Michal. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U95	Thank you. Good colleague! Looking at some cars, it feels like he's been completely rusted, but he's still driving around the streets. Maybe he's never been through a technical inspection, but I think if he drives around, he'll have insurance. Why is that? It turns out that these systems do not ensure that we have technically sound vehicles on our roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U96	Thank you. That was a bit of a philosophical question. If the vehicle does not meet the technical requirements, the question arises as to how the technical inspection has been carried out. I'm reminding you of the Justice Department reviews. I don't know exactly what the current situation is, but years before, research has been carried out asking people where they've been exposed to corruption. It has become apparent that corruption is particularly exposed to roadworthiness testing. I know that measures have now been taken and that businesses themselves have also made efforts to ensure that this is no longer the case. I hope we're seeing less and less of this. The motor insurance contract must, of course, exist for everyone who drives on the road. If this is not the case, they will be subject to a refund or an invoice or reminder will be sent to them if, in the meantime, the motor insurance contract has not been concluded. This is stated in the law in detail in what period and in what way it will be done. That was a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U97	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Michal. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. There were 13 amendments to the draft law. Let's get started. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments have been tabled by the commission, the eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth and thirteenth amendments have been tabled by the commission, i.e. they have been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Second reading of bill 423 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U98	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. For a presentation, Mr Aasa, member of the Economic Commission for the Speaker's Committee on Economic Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Natural Gas Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 December 2013. The main objective of the draft law is to bring the law into line with the Euro Directive on the natural gas market so that the law meets the requirements of the directive in detail, even in the smallest details. The first reading of the draft act took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session. February 12th, and the first reading was completed. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments on 19 February. A total of 14 amendments were submitted by the initiator of the draft act to the Commission for consideration, mostly on the basis of negotiations and consultations with the European Commission. We also made a working group to discuss these proposals, and the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed these proposals at its meeting on 13 March. Rein Vaks, expert of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, participated in the session as the initiator of the draft act. The Commission unanimously supported all the proposed amendments. The draft has been examined by the language editors of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and their amendments have been taken into account in the text of the draft. There were 14 amendments in total, as has been said. Most of them were conventional, one related to delaying the entry into force of the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities for six months, and therefore certain amendments to the Law on Natural Gas have to be made temporarily. However, in general there was no political or substantive change in the draft between the first and second readings. Finally, I will talk about the procedural decisions of the commission. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 19 March with the proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we will have a proposal to refer it to the third reading by 26 March and put it to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U100	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. There are 14 amendments to the draft law, as has been said. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is also the lead committee. The eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh amendments have again been tabled by the Steering Committee. Amendments 12, 13 and 14 have been tabled by the lead committee. All these proposals have been fully taken into account. The second reading of bill 556 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U101	The second reading of the draft amendment to § 22 of the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Once again, I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Arto Asa, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U102	Honourable Riigikogu! I am talking about the draft amendment of § 22 of the Advertising Act. This bill was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 27 January. Let it be recalled that this draft was initiated by the government on the recommendation of the Economic Commission. The purpose of the draft law is to add information on the price of the healthcare provided to the list of non-health promotions by supplementing the advertising law. Simply put, it will also be possible to tell you how much this service costs by notifying healthcare in the future. The first reading of the bill was held in Riigikogu plenary on 19 February. No amendments were received by the deadline of 6 March. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the referral to second reading at its meeting on 13 March. As there were no amendments and no substantive changes were made by the Commission itself, the draft is the same as at first reading. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft initiated to the Riigikogu for second reading by 19 March with the proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is completed, we propose that the draft be referred to the third reading by 26 March and put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U103	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There were no amendments to this draft law. The second reading of bill 584 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U104	The second reading of the Defence League Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act amending other laws 579 begins. Aivar Riisalu, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U105	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the Defence League Act, the Defence Forces Service Act and the Act amending other laws 579 was completed on 11 February. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline of 26 February at 5.15 p.m. Three amendments were tabled by the National Defence Committee. The Commission discussed the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic before the second reading in three sessions. All amendments proposed by the National Defence Commission were made by consensus. The Ministry of Defence supports all amendments proposed by the Commission. I will now give more details on the amendments. Their aim is to clarify the wording of the Defence Forces Ordinance Act in order to rule out the possibility of interpretation in various ways. Amendment 1 amends the title of the draft as the Defence Forces Organisation Act is added to the list of amended laws. Amendment 2 introduces a new § 3 in the draft, which clarifies the wording of § 36 of the Defence Forces Organisation Act. Amendment 3 amends the time when the law enters into force. The amendment to the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces will enter into force earlier than the rest of the bill, but the time of entry into force of the rest of the Act will not change. This is because the amendment to the Order of the Defence Forces Act should enter into force at the same time as the amendments made to the Order of the Defence Forces Act on 29 January 2014. The National Defence Committee decided at its meeting on 10 March to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 March and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U106	Thank you, Mr Aivar Riisalu. There are no questions for you either. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As Mr Riisalu has already said, there are three amendments to the draft law. All of these have been submitted by the National Defence Commission, the lead committee, and they have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 579 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U107	The second reading of the draft law amending and repealing the legislation initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U108	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed in this Chamber on 18 December m. a and the deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments was set at 7 January. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; At first reading, there was a problem. If a person has lost his or her capacity as a result of an occupational disease or an accident at work and has received compensation but his or her employer has been wound up, these costs were borne by the State in accordance with the current rules. According to the original version of the draft, this situation would have been maintained in the future, but if something analogous had happened after 1 June 2014, these people would remain unprotected. Consequently, the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposed an improvement so that the current situation would continue in the future. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft twice: on 28 January and 11 March. The meetings were attended by the CEO and members of the board of the Estonian Professional Diseases Association, as well as specialists from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. As a result of these discussions, the Committee on Legal Affairs concluded that it is essentially right to support the Socialist proposal. However, the Commission formulated its proposal. In short, the difference between these two proposals is that, according to the Social Democrats' proposal, the State should compensate for any damage in the future, even under the non-material version of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in future the State or the Social Insurance Board will compensate for direct material damage in the future. This essentially means that if the person has received compensation from the employer for loss of capacity to work and the employer is liquidated, the state will compensate for it in the future and the person will continue to receive compensation. However, he will not be able to claim compensation for moral damage, for example, from the State. I have studied this subject and I can say that there are some very isolated examples in practice. The Commission found that this was not, in fact, the responsibility of the State; the State was simply filling one of the loopholes at the moment. In the near future, compulsory insurance will probably not yet be imposed in such cases, although such discussions have also taken place in previous years. In many countries, this problem has been solved by paying a certain amount to the insurance fund and making up the insurance. In addition, the Commission made two other amendments. One of them is the date of entry into force. Most of the provisions of the draft act enter into force in general. It was also proposed to amend the Prison Act: the words 'Government of the Republic' are replaced by 'Minister of Justice'. All these changes were made in a consensual manner. The Commission also decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 March and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 26 March and to put it to the final vote. All these decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Jents. No questions for you either. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, my colleague Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U110	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. President-in-Office of the Council. In the light of Draft 519, it is good to see that the Riigikogu has a role to play in shaping legislation, regardless of which draft the Government of the Republic will hand over to the Riigikogu. I think that, after we adopt this bill as a law, we have lost one problem that could otherwise occur in the lives of those who have had a professional or work accident. That's one. Secondly, the world is very strange in itself, but it is actually great that in 2014 the Soviet civil code will be repealed and we will be able to proceed nicely with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you to everyone who contributed to this change in terms of accidents at work and occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As has been said, there are four amendments to the draft law. Let's go through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. The second, third and fourth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 519 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U112	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Mr Remo Holsmer, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft establishes a work register and will result in better protection of the social rights of individuals, reduces the administrative burden for both employers and public authorities and facilitates the functioning of the social security system as a whole. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 January and the first reading took place on 29 January. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit any amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. A meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs preparing the second reading of the draft was held on 10 March. The commission decided to propose six amendments to the draft. I would like to draw the attention of the Riigikogu's assembly to the fact that one page has been redrafted because, erroneously, more text had been left out of the text of Amendment 4 than would have been necessary for the purpose of the amendment. With the drafts you've been passed out, there's a really nice exchange page. Now I am talking about the amendments. Amendments 1 and 2 are of a specific nature. For reasons of legal clarity, the competence of the authorised processors in the register of employment shall be specified in respect of entries and the definition of employment. Amendment 3 deletes the sentence 'adoption on leave, maternity leave or'. If you stop working in these cases, you will receive information from the sickness insurance fund. By Amendment 4, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to exclude from the draft an exception according to which the person whose service is provided in a calendar day is less than four hours and not more than 24 hours should not have been entered in the register of employment. This derogation was originally provided for in the draft in order to prevent short-term work from being registered. Although the purpose of the provision was to enable short-term work to be excluded from registration, the new provision at that time would have allowed for the long-term contractual employment relationship to be excluded, for example if the contract for the provision of a service of 24 hours per calendar month had been concluded for an indefinite period. The Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that the proposed provision did not fulfil its purpose and that it was not justified to introduce a derogation. In the event of maliciousness, the exemption would allow the registration obligation to lapse, create a 'black hole' in the employment register and would not be in line with the purpose of establishing the employment register. Amendment 5 adds to the references to make it clear that the person who allows work is also obliged to register in the register of employment on a voluntary basis for which no remuneration is paid. The sixth amendment is due to the fact that the IT analysis of the Tax and Customs Board has revealed that there is no real need to record the payment maker in the register of employment, as the data is already available on the TSD declaration, i.e. the tax and social tax declaration. Therefore, the part of the sentence "if the person enabling the work is different from the person making the payment or making the tax return to the person doing the work, the registration number and name of that person' shall also be deleted from the text of the draft. All amendments were unanimously supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu's agenda by 19 March with a proposal to terminate the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Remo Holsmer. This is about my colleague Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U115	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that short-term work lasts up to 24 hours. If you work harder, it's not part of it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U116	With this amendment, which I described, we took this provision, which concerned four hours a day and 24 hours a month, out of the draft so that there would not be an opportunity to take advantage of this non-registration in the register.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U117	No further questions. Thanks again. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As six amendments have been tabled, we will examine them all. The first, second and third amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The fourth, fifth and sixth amendments have also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The second reading of bill 575 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U118	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by Helmen Küti, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U119	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, was at first reading on 29 January. The first reading was completed. A little remind you of the purpose of the bill, because it has been more than a month since the first reading. The draft amends the Health Services Organisation Act as follows: First, family doctors are compared and organized to exclude uninsured persons who do not consume family doctor services in Estonia and who are objects of the population register, but whose residence according to the population register is not located in the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, more disputes and discussions were raised in the Committee on Social Affairs by a point which regulates independent midwifery aid and home birth assistance. Now I am talking about the draft procedure. The first reading of the draft was closed on 29 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 February. Five amendments were received within this deadline, all from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at three meetings: 10, 11 and 17 March. Commission Chairman Margus Tsahkna took this draft very seriously. As a result, representatives of interest groups Lembe Allik, Kadri Aua and Inge Bachau from NGO Nail Vägi, Ingrid Kaoküla, representative of the Estonian Midwives Association, Lee Tammemäe, Sirje Vaask from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and Heli Paluste from the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present at the first session. Everyone invited to the sitting and who participated in the meeting was very supportive of the formal regulation of home birth, as obstetrics must be safe for both the mother and the child. Opinions differed as regards equal treatment of births at home and in hospital, financing the service and ownership. The representatives of the NGO's Birth Vägi expressed the view that women and families who choose to give birth in the hospital are not treated financially equally, as the health insuranceed child is free of charge in the hospital, but the service is paid to the family who has chosen to have a child at home. The representative of the Estonian Association of Midwives also supported this part. In the opinion of a representative of a midwife's association, the sickness fund should at least compensate for the use of instruments in childbirth. A representative of the midwives pointed out that even now inviting an individual specialist to childbirth is subject to a fee and could not be a home birth without real responsibility. The second topic was the assessment of the competence of the midwife by the representative of the midwives. He considered the system of assessment of qualifications to be very important. A representative of women's doctors also considered the competence of a midwife who accepted a home birth to be important. He also explained the need to fix in subacts the distance of the birther's residence from the nearest maternity department. The Health Insurance Fund representative explained which rules of procedure apply when adding the service to the list of services to be reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund. It is explained that the Health Insurance Fund would be able to reimburse the fixed cost of a home birth at the earliest from 2016, if the previous rules of procedure were complied with. If the service were included in the list of services to be reimbursed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the cost of home birth care would certainly be lower than the cost of hospital childbirth. The discussion also focused on the risks of home birth and the possibility of registering the birth of a child born at home. At the next Commission debate, the Committee on Social Affairs took procedural decisions to send this draft to second reading today. When the second reading is completed, we have a proposal that the third reading of the draft be held on 26 March. The amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party were unfortunately not supported by the Commission. Finally, it is good that this bill is on our tables. We hope that the Health Insurance Fund will take home birth to a list of the services it finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U120	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U121	Thank you. Good future Minister of Health! The question is that there is no legal procedure for registering a newborn at home. How will this problem be solved? This is not a theoretical question, but even from the Bible there is a case when two women gave birth, one child died, the other did not die, and then King Solomon was approached to resolve the matter. When a child is born in a maternity home, the procedures are clear and there are those responsible. But in the case of a home birth, you have to take DNA samples and go to court to get a birth certificate for the baby.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U122	Thank you, dear colleague. First of all, I want to make a clarification: I will certainly never be the Minister of Health. Secondly, you attended the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs where you raised this issue. As I said in the report, we also had opportunities to register the birth of a child in the debate. Neither of us was satisfied with the explanation given to us, but this issue cannot be regulated in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the framework of this draft law. It is necessary to argue clearly in the following drafts, which fall within the sphere of either the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U123	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U124	Thank you. Good waitress! I am asking about the amendments tabled by the representatives of the Social Democratic Party Group. We discussed in the Commission, as you remember, that they have not actually been presented correctly. Your idea was understandable to everyone. You wanted the Health Insurance Fund to start financing this service by law. However, if these amendments are voted on in the draft in the Chamber today, the President of the Republic will not be able to declare the law in this form. What do you think of these amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U125	Thank you. We also remained in the Commission for various opinions when discussing this issue. The idea that people have equal constitutional rights would certainly not make this bill worse, but perhaps better. I agree that the registration of the new medical service on the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund will take place differently. But our amendments have also been examined by a lawyer who did not think they were appropriate. I am of the opinion that the amendments we have tabled would certainly not make this law worse. We also voted on them in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U126	Thank you very much. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Good Helmen! I have a question about the first part of this bill. If people are excluded from a family doctor's appointment, the Health Board must inform them if there are less than 100. If there are more than 100, the Health Board will not inform them, but they will have to read the Official Announcements. We understand that normal people don't usually read Official Announcements. If I'm excluded from a family doctor's appointment, I don't think it matters if I'm one of 99 or 101. Why this distinction, and isn't it hurting people?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U128	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the Commission did not raise this issue in this way, neither did Viktor Vassilyev, a good Member of the Commission. I think the situation is different for a person, depending on whether he's a 99 or 101 patient who's excluded from the list. However, we made an amendment to §8 (44) of the Act, which nevertheless provides for a regulation on how information is to be provided. When a person who is excluded from the list turns to his or her family doctor, it is possible to give him or her the necessary help and, if necessary, to take him or her back to the list. I think that we can still deal with this issue in the Commission before the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U129	Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U130	Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the home birth. Am I right to understand that there is a situation where a home birth is, in a sense, a luxury service that can be used by people who have more money and people who do not have money cannot choose this service, but they get a free service at the hospital? Do you think it's right and how to argue it? Maybe you can comment more closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U131	I can express the Commission's position. In voting on the amendments, the proposal to start financing this service was not supported. Even if it had found support, this service would only reach the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund from 2016. This was explained by a representative of the health insurance fund. I personally think that was also highlighted by a number of people who were present at the Commission meeting, that we are still experiencing inequality here. There were only 66 births in Estonia in 2013. If they had given birth in a hospital, it would have been free of charge, when they gave birth at home, they would have been paid for their midwifery assistance. It was their choice, and apparently they were able to do so. But maybe a few women left it because her economic options wouldn't allow her to pay for it, without giving birth at home, and she did it at the hospital. The representatives of the NGO's Birth Force also pointed out that, at the moment, there are differences in treatment of women giving birth in hospitals and at home, namely in financial terms. When you look at the development plan for children and families, which says that the goal is happy families and happy children, there is a contradiction here. But I very much hope that the Health Insurance Fund will quickly process the documents that will be submitted after the adoption of this law, and at least in 2016 this contradiction will have disappeared.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U132	Thank you. Please, Margus Tsahkna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! The Commission had quite an exciting debate on the issue of unequal treatment in constitutional terms for people who decide to give birth at home and who are not compensated by the sickness fund's midwifery assistance. This is also linked to the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. How do you assess the current situation? If a person goes to a hospital to give birth, he or she will be able to order a paid midwife's service, which the sickness fund does not pay in the same way. Does there already exist an unequal treatment for the purposes of the Constitution in the existing system, as you have described, and now you want to introduce it into the law as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U134	Thank you. I think that if the Health Insurance Fund is to finance a home birth service, then the same procedure should certainly apply if the person who gives birth in the hospital has chosen an individual midwife. At the moment, if the hospital wants a certain midwife, the person will have to pay for it. But only the midwife's service is paid for, not the use of instruments or anything else. I believe that there is indeed an unequal treatment here today, but it is a human choice. Every child born in Estonia is of great value. A child is also born at home. The amount that must be paid for helping a midwife at home is certainly too much for some families.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U135	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Helmen Hunter! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U136	I think that the fact that the Riigikogu is currently legitimizing, perhaps by law, the home birth service is the right step. To date, childbirth at home has actually been unregulated. The midwives have gone home to help in childbirth, but there is no legal regulation. As a matter of law, their activities have been in the grey zone, so far they have assumed personal responsibility. If something goes wrong, the midwife is actually unprotected. The responsibility is, of course, on the one hand, but the medical professional has gone to his aid. Fortunately, there have been not many tragic moments here so far. Now I'm talking about the procedure for this bill. The Social Democrats have tabled some amendments which are in themselves in the right direction. In particular, they want the midwifery service to be included immediately in the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund. I recall the responsibility that the Social Democrats are most likely to assume in the social field from next week. We cannot make changes to the law that are right, but the solution is legally misguided and wrong. We cannot change the procedure for supplementing the list of services financed by the Health Insurance Fund by this law. I call for behaviour in this Chamber, not as 'State Men' in the third season, but as a matter of fact, as a statesman. The amendments have been tabled and your will is known, but let us not vote on these amendments into this law. If we vote them in, the President won't be able to declare the law. Think about it for a second. You're quite soon a party of government responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U137	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu; the proposal of the commission is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2: Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U138	You said that Amendment 1 has been fully taken into account. Number 2, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U139	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U140	No. 2, not No. 1? I haven't gotten to that number two yet...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U141	I didn't finish the sentence yet. I thought you had a procedural question. I'll read it one more time. The second amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Mr Saar would like to put this amendment to the vote. Got it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Bill 566 Amendment 2, made by the Social Democratic Party Group. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 16), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 32 members of the Riigikogu with 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This proposal has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U142	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U143	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment. It is presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 11), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 26 members of the Riigikogu with 8 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U144	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 4 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 15), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 29 members of the Riigikogu with five abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 5 Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U145	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U146	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 15), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 22 members of the Riigikogu with 6 abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be disregarded. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U148	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U149	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 12), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 28 members of the Riigikogu with five abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. All six amendments have been examined and the second reading closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U150	The 11th item is the second reading of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act 574. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U151	Good manager! Good free members of the Riigikogu! Do not be intimidated by this political vacuum! Let's still do quality work, and let's not vote any bullshit in the law! But now I am talking about the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 574. The first reading was completed on 29 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 12 February. Neither the political groups of the Riigikogu nor the members of the committees proposed amendments to the draft. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Commission tabled two amendments to the draft. The Social Affairs Committee prepared a second reading of the draft law amending other laws relating to the amendment of the Tax Administration Act at two sessions: 11 and 17 March. On 11 March, the Commission's amendments were discussed and procedural decisions were taken. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was also invited to the meeting of the Commission. The decisions were as follows: the Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to send a draft to second reading of 574 by 19 March and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Social Affairs Committee also decided that when the second reading of the draft was completed, the draft should be sent to the third reading by 26 March and put to the final vote. The amendments proposed were of a technical nature. As I said, they were unanimously supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U152	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Any requests? There's no call. The lead committee had two amendments, we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Social Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined and the second reading of draft law 574 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U153	The 12th item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U154	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic on 2 December m. The first reading of the Act amending the Health Insurance Act 551 was completed on 15 January. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. One amendment was tabled within this deadline. In addition, the Commission, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, tabled two amendments. The Social Affairs Committee prepared the second reading of the Act amending the Health Insurance Act 551 at four sessions: 10 and 11 February and 11 and 17 March. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to send the draft to second reading by 19 February and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 26 March. With this draft, we have made one very substantive amendment. I would like to thank the Estonian Society of Doctors of Skin and Sexual Diseases and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Tartu University Hospital Children's Foundation, who have been working on solving this problem for years, that people with congenital and genetic diseases need a ointment and other tools to survive. Until the entry into force of this legislative amendment, they have not been able to receive compensation from the sickness fund and have had to pay for all of this themselves. With this amendment, we are giving the possibility that the Health Insurance Fund will reimburse the cost of ointments and aids. I thank all our partners! There was a very serious debate with representatives of the Pharmaceutical Industry Association. We have received a number of opinions and analyses. This amendment concerns price fixing and possible negotiations on them. Drug manufacturers have made a number of claims since this amendment is unconstitutional and ending with the fact that it is harmful to insured persons, because in different theoretical cases, the purchase of certain medicinal products may fall behind the conclusion of price agreements and these medicinal products may be excluded from our market at all. But the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has analysed this draft and found that there is no conflict with the Constitution. I have already read the decisions of the Commission to you. We propose to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U155	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. Three amendments have been tabled. The first is presented by Heljo Pikhof. The proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. The second amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs. This amendment has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The third amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs. This amendment has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 551 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U156	Our last item on the agenda today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Medical Device Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 562. Once again, I would like to ask for the presentation of the Chair's Social Affairs Committee president, Margus Tsahkna.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U157	The first reading of the Act amending the Medical Device Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 562 was completed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu on 29 January 2014. The proposal updates the regulation of the medical device repository in relation to the need to extend the data to be collected in the database. The data currently received by the Health Board during the market surveillance process will be aggregated into a database to make the data more accessible both to the competent authority and to the public. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft in preparation for its second reading on 11 and 17 March. The Commission has decided to propose an amendment and to change the date of entry into force of the Act instead of 1 April 2014 it will now be 1 May 2014 The Social Affairs Committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 19 March and to propose that the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-03-19_U158	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Margus Tsahkna! Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, and we will review it. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account of this amendment. The amendment has been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 562 should be completed. Second reading is complete. Today's agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much to all those who participated in the debates! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 3.35 p.m.
