ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 10th working week of the 8th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry with the other members of the Central Party Group to Mr Anvelt, Minister of Justice. This concerns the protection of people in distress with a home loan. During the economic crisis, people who had acquired a home with the help of the bank came into bondage but then lost their jobs and were no longer able to cope with their obligations. Many of them are still paying a loan for their nonexistent home. At the moment, according to the Estonian Association of Debt Advisers, the number of debts to be recovered is 140000. Since the beginning of next year, debtors in Latvia have the opportunity to return their home keys to the bank without remaining in debt. People in Estonia do not have such protection. This is a major problem, but the government has done nothing. That is why we are asking the Minister for Justice a question of five questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U3	Are there any further inquiries and drafts? There's no more. Got it. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted one inquiry, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. Good fellows, this Friday, i.e. tomorrow, on 5 December, the event organised by the Estonian Children's Protection League will take place in this Chamber. In this context, I would ask you to bring important materials from your desks and drawers. We're conducting a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. There are still so many messages that if you want to leave a letter or notice to the members of the Youth Parliament of the Estonian Children's Protection League, you can write it and leave it on your desk. It's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first and only item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act 731 on the Amendment to the Law on Abruption and Sterilization, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be chaired by Heljo Pikhof, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft Act 731 amending the Abortion and Sterilization Act before being sent to first reading at its meeting on 18 November. Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Viivika Sirelpu, Legal Adviser of the Legal Department, participated in the meeting. The draft amends the provisions of the Abortion and Sterilization Act governing the consent of a woman with reduced capacity to discontinue pregnancy. According to the current law, a minor must not interrupt pregnancy without the consent of his or her parent or guardian. If the parent disagrees with the termination of the child's pregnancy, you can apply to the court. On 3 June 2014, the Chancellor of Justice addressed the Riigikogu with proposal No 27, where he proposed to bring § 5 (2) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act into line with § 19 of the Constitution in conjunction with § 26 and 28. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the law is contrary to the Constitution because it limits the right of a young woman under 18 to self-determination by making her over-reliance on her parents or guardians. Nor does this limit guarantee a minor's right to privacy and health protection. On 18 June, we discussed and supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Social Affairs Committee was instructed to initiate a draft law amending the law on abortion and sterilisation. The Commission did so on 24 September. So what are the problems with the current regulation? Firstly, for persons with reduced capacity, including minors, the requirement of mandatory parental consent in quite a large number of cases means taking action against their desire, which, in the light of the experience of other countries, may lead to a dangerous situation where minors do not dare to contact a doctor to stop a pregnancy and start looking for other options. This may result in a risk to life and health. Secondly, without the consent of the legal representative of the minor, neither the doctor nor the conciliate of doctors can permit the termination of a minor's pregnancy even if the fetus has developed a malformation or if the young woman has been raped. Third, if the wishes of a pregnant woman and her guardian break up, legal proceedings may take time. Discontinuation of pregnancy at a later stage of development, however, poses a higher risk to the health of the party concerned. It is also clear that the question of the justification for the termination of pregnancy does not require legal expertise. What could be the real grounds on which the court says that abortion can be done on one occasion, and on the other? The Supreme Court has pointed out that according to § 20 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to liberty and to the integrity of the person, and freedom can only be taken in the cases and in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. What if the court says that a pregnancy can be interrupted, but the minor does not agree? It would be even more strange if it were there or if it were to be subject to compulsory labour. The purpose of the draft is to provide for a regulation on the granting of consent similar to that laid down in the Law of Obligations Act. Patient consent rules should be as similar as possible in all areas of healthcare provision and should also apply to minors. Until 31 December 2008, the regulation laid down in § 766 of the Law of Obligations Act was in force, according to which a person with reduced capacity could decide to terminate his or her pregnancy in so far as he or she was able to consider the pro- and objection of termination of pregnancy responsibly. From 1 January 2009, the law provides that the consent of a legal representative is always required to terminate the pregnancy of a person who is incapacitated. If a young woman or a woman does not consent to an abortion or is unable to express her will, or if the guardian does not agree to the termination of the pregnancy, the pregnancy may be interrupted with the permission of the court. Looking at the results of the studies, they have shown that if the consent of the parent is required to terminate a minor's pregnancy, it will make abortion significantly more difficult for the minor. At the same time, point 2 has been introduced in the draft proposal that it is important to involve a person who is able to rely on a person with reduced capacity in order to decide whether to terminate a pregnancy. It may not always be a parent. When we are talking about adults, this provision is introduced primarily because it can also be difficult for a responsible and prudent person to decide whether to terminate a pregnancy. Point 10 of the draft law amends Paragraph 12 (1) and formulates it in such a way that the doctor must explain to the parties concerned the biological and medical nature of the pregnancy as well as the termination of pregnancy and any possible complications. The wording is amended precisely to highlight the duty of the doctor to provide explanations and advice in a balanced way so as to make it clear what happens in the event of both continued pregnancy and termination of pregnancy. In this way, a woman or girl who wishes to terminate a pregnancy can make a prudent decision based on this information. The doctor is also required to explain to those involved that they are able to receive psychological assistance in particular, as well as other appropriate advice before a final decision is taken. This information obligation is imposed because a young woman or woman wishing to interrupt a pregnancy may need additional advice in addition to the advice provided at the reception of a gynecologist to decide whether to interrupt or continue a pregnancy. The text of the draft has specifically highlighted psychological counselling, as the decision to terminate a pregnancy is made at a psychological level. At the same time, a doctor who interrupts pregnancy is obliged to explain the possibilities of receiving any economic, legal or other advice that the patient may need. If we look at the data from the medical birth register and the pregnancy abortion database and compare our indicators with those from other countries, we can see that unsafe termination of pregnancy causes 13% of the deaths of women in the world. In comparison, no woman in Estonia has died as a result of the termination of pregnancy since 2008. The Government of the Republic has approved this draft and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Justice also supports the proposal of the initiator of the draft to bring the regulation for the termination of the pregnancy of a woman with limited working capacity into line with subsection 766 (4) of the Law of Obligations Act, according to which the provision of healthcare to a patient with limited capacity takes place with the consent of the patient, in so far as the patient is able to consider the pros and objections responsibly. The Ministry of Justice also made some proposals to supplement the explanatory memorandum and these changes have now been made. There are now questions and answers that arose in the Commission. It was asked that if a minor decides to interrupt a pregnancy but cannot talk about it with his family, then there will probably be serious problems in the family. Should we foresee that this family will be dealt with? In Finland, this work is a social worker. As a matter of fact, this problem is very serious. The response of the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that this had been discussed in the Ministry and it was concluded that in this case, a system of informing a child in need of assistance should actually be implemented. And, as we know, the recently adopted Child Protection Act regulates very precisely how a child in need must be reported. The second question was about the illegal termination of pregnancy. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that there are no statistics on this in Estonia. However, the Estonian Women's Doctors' Society has expressed concern that they have had to go against the wishes of parents on several occasions. There was also the question of how it could be illegal to interrupt a pregnancy. The Social Security Department officials replied that if it was forbidden to interrupt a pregnancy, then sometimes corner doctors were searched and methods were used that were not allowed. Abortion has been allowed in Estonia since 1955 and thanks to this we have so good access to safe abortion services that no criminal abortions are required. Thus, there are no cases where someone would have been injured or otherwise lost their health. There was also the question of how to help a pregnant young girl to get full counsel and other support so that she can make a well - considered decision. The response of the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs was that amendments concerning § 12 (1) of the Abortion and Sterilization Act are currently being drafted, which states that a health care professional must explain to a woman wishing to terminate a pregnancy both the medical and biological nature of the pregnancy and the termination of pregnancy and other circumstances arising from the situation. Now our decisions. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send a draft to the first reading of 731 by 4 December with a proposal to close the first reading. The Commission proposes that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, to be set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 December. Heljo Pikhof was appointed rapporteur by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U6	Thank you. You have questions too. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! There are at least three aspects of abortion for me: the health care context and the mental and moral aspect. The first one you talked about quite thoroughly, the last two you stopped less. I would like to find out what the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs was from the point of view of the constitutional invasion. How did you come to realize that the minor's right to free self-realization outweighs the constitutional obligation to raise and care for his or her children? How did you arrive at such an understanding in the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U8	I think one doesn't rule out the other. When a child is born, of course, the Constitution must be observed and these children raised. But before we came to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu with a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice, we had a very in-depth discussion with women's doctors and representatives of different ministries and non-profit organizations. This debate was very emotional. There were also examples of life that, unfortunately, I cannot repeat here today, because we agreed on this in the Commission. But can you imagine a situation where a 16-year-old daughter doesn't want to give birth, but a mother forbids abortion says you have to give birth? There's nothing a ladies' doctor can do. Still, a young person must have the right to make such a decision. I think whoever thinks a little bit will understand. The other thing is that if, until then, the law states that if the court consents to terminate the pregnancy and the parent insists that the daughter should do so, the child does not want to do so, let's say that she is already 17 years old, then how can it be imposed? It would be very strange if forced production were applied. It's a good thing it's not so regulated. But yes, the current situation is somewhat strange. All the more so because we have a section of the Law of Obligations Act, which also applies to minors. But it's always considered whether a minor understands what they're told. Do you understand? The doctor will make his professional decision. We have also spoken with doctors on the Commission, and they have confirmed that doctors do understand whether a minor understands all the facts. If you can't, you need someone to help an adult make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U9	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U10	Thank you. Abortion is certainly a very delicate subject and a very difficult decision for a woman of any age, then added to the minor. More attention has been paid here to these cases if there is no trusting relationship with your family, with your mother. So how should it work? I am surprised that the draft does not provide for the obligation to use advisory services when a girl is left alone with her concerns. While it has been said that the doctor informs him of such an opportunity, would it not be appropriate to foresee that qualified, proper counseling is an obligation to help a young person?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U11	Thank you for your question. It might be considered. I think that a doctor who is trusted by a young person can convince him to use one or the other opportunity to receive advice. I'm sure the doctor can explain what it gives him. But the proposal can be accepted, we are discussing it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U12	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U13	Thank you. There's no way I can agree with you. Of course, there are all sorts of strange cases that need to be treated as exceptions, but if exceptions start to create a rule, then it's a bad thing. In my opinion, it is not wise to go about legislation according to the individual negative exceptions. But I do have another question about the constitutional barrage. I don't know, maybe the Chancellor of Justice told you more about it. He didn't refer to it in this big hall. We have prohibited minors from buying a pack of cigarettes and a bottle of cider, but we see a violation of their rights when they are not allowed to make their own abortion decisions. I really don't understand these things. How can it be realized that an abortion decision can be made independently by a young girl, but that she cannot buy a pack of cigarettes and cider?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U14	When it comes to making this decision on its own, the doctor will still take into account how well the minor understands all the circumstances surrounding the termination of the pregnancy when he or she intends to have an abortion and also when he or she has decided to give birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U15	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U16	Thank you. I liked your answer when you said to my question that you would certainly consider this option. That's why I'm asking you a question in cash form. Do you agree that the law should clearly state the right and obligation of a young person to receive expert psychological advice? The doctor may explain that such counseling is being given, but if it is not free, many will certainly not be able to use it. We know that we currently have professional advisors, but we may not have financed this service enough to be available in all counties. Do you agree that this matter should be more clearly reflected in the law as a duty of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U17	What can I say? The counselling service should certainly be free of charge in such cases, just as many tools to prevent pregnancy are available either at a preferential price or even free of charge. Such things need to be addressed, or young people or women from families that are worse off will be in a worse position. As far as counseling is concerned, I think there should be more of these services. At the same time, ladies'doctors have stressed that when a young girl draws up courage and comes to a doctor, she often does not want anyone else to know about her concerns. It's a relationship of trust between a doctor and a young lady. However, as far as advice is concerned, we are discussing this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U18	Mr Pikhof, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. We're moving on with our questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U19	Thank you. I had questions when I listened to my colleagues' questions. Inform me, too, who am not a member of this committee. Am I right to understand that there is a desire in the Commission to prohibit minors from giving birth or to force them to have an abortion? I understand the bill revolves around it. But is there a position in the Commission that the minor is not entitled to decide either way or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U20	Thank you for your question. The Commission was unanimous in its view that the current law is not in the interest of a minor and that the law definitely needs to be amended. This bill is the result of our joint cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U21	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U22	Thank you. Dear waitress, Personally, I get the feeling that a bill like this is breaking up a family. It is no longer necessary to communicate with parents or to find a common language with them. But I'm actually asking about statistics. Statistics show that 14-year-olds, then 15-year-olds, 17-year-olds and beyond. However, how can you know the exact statistics on the number of abortions at 16+ and the number of births? It's very hard to understand the paperwork so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U23	Please look at page 17. I don't know if you have this page or not. There are abortions: 14 years of age, 15 to 17 years of age, 18 to 19 years of age, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-12-04_U24	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 731 amendments. 18 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 731 is closed and its item is also dealt with. Good fellows! We are not moving to the second item, because there are no more. Thank you! Today's trial is over. Good luck in our work! Closure of the sitting at 10.29 a.m.
