ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Gambling Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Andres Anvelt, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. And fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on trade in animals and animal products and on veterinary supervision of their import and export and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U3	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Centre Party initiates a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, which seeks to amend one section of the Act as follows: the Health Insurance Fund compensates the person who has been granted a disability pension or old-age pension under the State Pension Insurance Act once every three years for dental prostheses or dental care services at the rate, under the conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister of Social Affairs. This will allow people who are pensioners to use EUR 255.65 once every three years, not only for prostheses, as provided for in the current regulation, but also for the treatment of existing teeth. We know that more and more people enter the family of pensioners who have their teeth in their mouths and who do not yet need prosthetics. So as a first step, we try to solve some of the problems of dental care for older people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U5	Thank you. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union will initiate a draft law amending the Family Law. The main objective of our draft is the legal regulation of non-marital cohabitation in order to provide a reasonable opportunity for non-marital but permanent cohabitation, i.e. the factual spouses referred to in the current law, to protect their rights as regards property acquired in the course of a partnership and, in justified cases, to obtain maintenance after the expiry of the partnership. In a situation where a large number of couples live in a non-marital partnership in Estonia and a large number of children are also born outside the marriage, we do not consider it reasonable to assume that, if the law provides for a different form of registered partnership, it would be more widely used than a marriage governed by the Family Act. That is why the draft is aimed specifically at defining the legal relationships attached to a permanent partnership that is not registered as a marriage. In our opinion, there is no point in creating a separate institute of marriage in Estonia in the form of a cohabitation institute; it is more appropriate to regulate relations arising from factual cohabitation and the protection of the rights of the weaker party in property relations with the package of amendments to the current family law, which we submit to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 11. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. At the tables, you have the current beautiful yellow spring leaves. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 12th working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U8	We will go to today's agenda, which includes answering questions. The first is an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Jevgeni Ossinovski, of the members of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, Tarmo Tamme and Esther Tuiksoo on 17 March this year. On behalf of the heirs, a member of the Riigikogu, Heimar Lenk, will perform the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. This inquiry was submitted to the previous Minister of Education, Jaak Aavikkogu. In the meantime, we had a change of government, a temporary government has begun to work, and now Ossinovski will answer us as minister. The question is that on 13 July last year the funeral of the Võrumaa Old-Antsla Vocational High School was held. It was under this name that this great event was held, and that is what the media called the funeral of Vana-Antsla Vocational High School. More than 300 people, former students and lecturers had arrived. Everyone was in a very sad mood because the school that taught the last agricultural specialties in South Estonia closed its doors. There was a schoolhouse and dormitories in Lohaki, a wind howls in the former manor building, the windows have been nailed shut. Tanel Lintus, Director of Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, attended this large public meeting, who assured the people that the Ministry of Education decided to transfer the specialties of Vana-Antsla to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre in Väimela. This promise improved the feeling and mood of alumni and former teachers. Everyone had a little easier feeling in their hearts that there was still something going on. In the autumn of last year, an unexpected decision was made, following which the courses of specializations transferred from Vana-Antsla were closed in Väimela. The biggest concern for the people was that the construction specialty was out of place with the students, but suddenly it was shut down. Whatever happened to the students, where they went, if any went to another specialty, I don't know. The director of the Vocational Education Centre knew only that this was the decision of the Ministry of Education. Why this happened, no one can explain until today. I don't know this newspaper Võrumaa Journal, I don't know the local government, I don't know the parish elders. I was approached with a request that maybe I could look into it. And now I want young Minister Ossinovski to tell us why this secondary vocational school was shut down or why these specialties were not transferred to Väimela Vocational Education Centre. We will hear his answer and find out how the education needed to promote rural development and the life of Estonia will be destroyed at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U10	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski, to answer the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions asked. It is difficult for me to be responsible for the decisions that have been taken in the past, but I think it is necessary to clarify the background to some of these decisions. The first question: 'Do you share the concerns of the members of the Võrumaa Municipalities Association about the completion of the construction specialty at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre? ' In general, I share the concerns of all local governments and local governments about how, at what level, where and on the basis of the curricula, education is provided in Estonia, including in Võrumaa. In order to discuss the concerns of the local community with regard to the vocational education in Võrumaa, a round table was recently launched by the Ministry of Education and Research, the Association of Municipalities of Võrumaa, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre councillors, members of the Riigikogu elected by Võru County and Võru County, employers, representatives of Antsla rural municipality and many others. The first meeting took place on 4 March, the second on 11 April. This debate is broad-based and the Ministry is represented there on a high-level basis, was last represented by the Ministry's Deputy Chancellor of Higher Education. In addition to vocational education, the issue of professional higher education has also been discussed, which has been actively discussed in this Chamber when adopting the VET Act. The second question: 'Why do the Ministry of Education and Research have double standards, according to which it was permitted to transfer specialties to Väimela when Vana-Antsla Vocational High School was closed, but this promise will not be fulfilled later? ' I can't tell you exactly where there's been a communication disturbance, so one party has received another message when the Ministry has sent out. In the restructuring of Vana-Antsla Vocational Secondary School, the most important thing was to ensure the continuation of existing students' studies and the possibility to graduate. Different options were considered for which specialty to transfer to a vocational school. The decision was based on the fact that students would be able to continue their studies at least in the first year after the addition in their usual environment. Excessive fragmentation between disciplines and schools would also have led to problems in real estate management, organisation of studies and other issues, so it was decided not to divide the disciplines between different schools and to transfer the entire teaching organisation to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. Of course, it could not be assumed that all the specialties taught at Vana-Antsla Vocational Secondary School would automatically be transferred to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, especially because each field of study needs a specific study base. It is not reasonable to build a base for all specialties in all vocational schools, and it is certainly not wise to develop a study base for all possible specialties in Väimela. The third question: 'When was the decision to close the construction specialty in Väimela at the Ministry, and who decided to stop teaching the construction specialty at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre on a daily basis, even though the students had already been admitted to the course? ' An agreement on the non-continuation of the construction specialty at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre was made at a meeting between the Centre's managers and the Vocational and Adult Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research in the summer of 2013. More specifically, the agreement was such that new students would not be admitted to the construction profession, but existing students could complete their studies. Surely this decision was not made overnight. At the same time, I think it is also a little strange that a vocational school began to adopt young people into a specialty which had already been agreed that no new students would be admitted there. With regard to the study of construction specialties, it should be stressed that Väimela does not have the necessary basis for teaching them. Väimela's study buildings have been developed by means of the amounts of the previous funding period of the European Union and there will be no additional investment to this extent. Students who moved from Old-Antsla Vocational High School used study bases there and did not actually study in Väimela. I would like to stress once again that the construction of a study base for new construction specialties in Väimela has never been planned, which we do not think makes sense. How such a message was read out, I cannot tell you, and unfortunately I cannot be responsible for it in this situation. The studies of construction specialties are well covered in South Estonia thanks to the Tartu Vocational Education Centre and Viljandi Vocational Secondary School. Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre has the opportunity to train young people in the construction field on the basis of joint curricula. This means that theoretical training could be carried out in Väimela and school practice could be carried out either in Tartu or Viljandi. This is also in line with the direction of the Ministry of Education and Research to increase specialisation so that the state's money for vocational training is used in the best way and the quality of education is steadily improved. The round tables of 4 March and 11 April, which I spoke about earlier, agreed to continue building training at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre on the basis of joint curricula. In other words, from 1 September of this year, the joint curricula allow you to study construction at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. Question 4: "What are the plans for Valgamaa Helme Road Vocational School's houses, which have been empty for most of four years? ' The Ministry of Education and Research has delivered free of charge to the municipality from the buildings of the former Helme School of the Vocational Training Centre of Valgamaa. The rest of the study buildings have been transferred to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. What Riigi Kinnisvara AS plans to do with them is not known to me. Question 5: 'How do you assess the situation that during your term of ministering, all fields of agriculture have been closed down in the vocational education system of South Estonia? What is the reason for your indifferent attitude towards the inhabitants of the South-Estonian region, who no longer have the opportunity to provide their children with an agricultural education in the area? ' First of all, I have a very positive view of the inhabitants of the South Estonia region. However, when it comes to agricultural education, it should be borne in mind that vocational education in this field is very resource-intensive • expensive are both educational bases and the necessary modern and complex techniques. We have taken the direction that the necessary educational bases and competences are concentrated at Olustvere Service and Rural Economy School and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre. It is not possible to maintain such resource-intensive specialties in the Estonian state's budget at the lowest number of students it was in Vana-Antsla Vocational High School. The results of the accreditation of the agricultural study programme group last year clearly show that the concentration of this quite specific field of study in only two schools is broadly correct. Olustvere and Järvamaa schools received full accreditation in the agricultural curriculum group. All Estonians are guaranteed excellent opportunities for studying agricultural disciplines in Olustvere and Järvamaa, both in terms of study quality, good and sufficient numbers of teachers and modern learning bases. This is supported by very good living conditions in dormitories and close cooperation with employers in the agricultural sector. Olustvere School also cooperates effectively with other schools in South Estonia. Thank you and I would also like to respond to further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U12	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U13	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm really sorry that as a young man, you're starting your career as weak as you've been here. So maybe you can perform for the voters of Ida-Viru County, but not for us who are familiar with things. I would simply like to make one statement that you have just said: there is no point in teaching agricultural specialties in South-East or South-Estonia, because there were very few students at the Old-Antsla High School of Vocational Education. And now, in order not to confine myself to a personal opinion, I quote to you this February's local county newspaper. Listen to this quote, it doesn't exactly match the information you've been given at the Ministry! That's not what I'm talking about. You could have gone through the question yourself. But the quote is: 'The old Antsla school was such a great urge that there weren't enough places for everyone who wanted it. '
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U14	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U15	The question is why you come to the Riigikogu Hall to lie that there were so few students at school that the school had to be shut down.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U16	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U17	Don't bother me, please, if I ask you a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U18	You started the question when the minute was up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U19	Honourable questioner! I certainly didn't want to say that the only reason for the lack of students was because of it. As I said, the question is much more complex, i.e. how we develop a vocational education network in Estonia as a whole. And I think that, unfortunately, we are not able to provide high-quality education in all disciplines in every county. Of course, it is possible to open up specializations everywhere, but if the study base does not meet today's requirements, I think it is better for our young people to study in places where there is a decent base. On this basis, the specialization of vocational schools is clearly provided for in the analysis of the various investment plans. In order for us to be able to ensure quality education in all vocational training institutions, we have basically shared competence across Estonia. There are certainly emotional issues relating to the reorganisation of the school network. However, this broad-based round table, which last, as I know, discussed these issues relatively constructively on 11 April, has also come to concrete decisions concerning training in the field of construction, the training of babysitters and professional higher education. I'm sure it's an important subject. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is likely that this round table will also be able to address these problems in the future. As far as I know, the issue of agricultural education has not been raised sharply there so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U20	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next questioner, I remind the experienced and longtime member of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, that the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question, and § 68 (3) states that the time for submitting a question is one minute. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You have certainly been prepared for today to have an overview of this, or you have had other time to get acquainted with the wider field of vocational education. After the closure of Vana-Antsla Vocational Secondary School, a number of still existing smaller vocational schools, which were left untouched by the first, second and third waves of reform, raised a legitimate question about what will happen next. You may already be familiar with, for example, the Tähmetsa problem. This school is actually connected to the Pärnumaa Vocational Education Centre, but the question is how much training remains there. There are certainly similar questions in Vigala and Kehtna. Do you have any information on how many more reforms are planned on the VET network?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U22	As far as the reform of the education system in general is concerned, however, we do not get away with it either in vocational education, higher education or general education. We need to take a step forward with broader societal changes. Unfortunately, no government can ignore the demographic trends that have taken up Estonia. Nor can the Ministry of Education reverse the trends arising from our regional policy, i.e. that people from rural areas are concentrated in larger cities. Surely the Ministry of Education is not the locomotive that is trying to bring people from the country to the city. On the other hand, in order to ensure the sustainability of rural areas, wider regional policy measures must be used, of which educational policy measures are certainly a part, but not the only one. As regards the school network in general, I believe that all these decisions should be taken in cooperation with the local community. So much more from Old Antsla that this round table, which has now begun, could have started earlier. Then we could have discussed all these questions. There are other issues that are currently on the agenda, such as the restructuring of special schools, which is particularly relevant to the Vastseliina School of Internship. There has been too little discussion of this problem with the community so far. I think that in a constructive climate of negotiations, it is possible for the parties to reach a common position where quality education is most sensible. For our part, we make the quality of education the most important priority, but certainly the sustainability of the local community is also one aspect that we take into account. I don't have any plans in the Department of Education to move on quietly and shut this school down, and then this and this. It is clear that we are currently monitoring the situation. If the number of students stays smaller, it is one reason to close the school, but the other reason is if we are unable to provide quality education due to a poor teaching base or a lack of pedagogies. Then some kind of change must be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U23	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Ossinovski! Just as far as information is concerned, in addition to the two schools that you have mentioned, there is another school in South Estonia that teaches specialties related to agriculture, and this is Räpina Gardening School. Your coalition agreement states that it is planned to do a South East Estonia development plan or programme, or what it was called. In this regard, do you intend to change vocational education in both Väimela and Räpina? Do you have any plans to make a difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U25	Thank you for your question. As far as the development plan for South-East Estonia is concerned, it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. But it is certainly assumed that next to Ida-Virumaa there is also a region of south-eastern Estonia that needs more attention from the country in the wider regional policy sense. So if the Minister of the Interior is going to come up with this plan, then the Ministry of Education will definitely be involved in this process. We must be able to provide quality education in South-East Estonia, both in vocational education and in general education. If your question was whether any educational policy measures were hidden behind this point, then the answer is that there is not. In preparing this development plan, we will discuss how we can best provide quality education.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U26	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U27	Thank you. Good minister! You said that you thought it was the right decision to stop teaching agriculture in South Estonia. The previous minister's position was correct, Olustvere and Järvamaa are enough. But frankly, I am also amazed at the answer. Where, then, to teach agriculture at all, if not in South Estonia, which is our largest agricultural regions!? What do you think the people of South Estonia should say about it and think about it? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U28	When it was decided to invest in the vocational education network, I was neither a minister nor a member of the Riigikogu. So it's hard for me to answer the question of why this type of specialization was undertaken. However, I believe that some preliminary work was carried out in order to distribute the relevant competence in the region. As a member of your experienced Riigikogu, you will know much better about the reasons behind these decisions. I didn't say I thought all the decisions I made were right. I was simply saying that the current concept provides that we have a good teaching base in Olustvere and Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre to provide this education. I would add that the concept of vocational education has been the principle that the state ensures that student homes are available in vocational education centres, so that young people in southern Estonia and all other areas of Estonia can study either in Olustvere or in Järvamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U29	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask you whether there is any regional policy link between the location of schools and funding for you, or whether you only take the school as a spender. The fact is, when Old Antslast's school disappears, life fades throughout the region. Do you think that only the efficiency factor of the school should be taken into account, or should the interests of the local population be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U31	I think both aspects are important. It is certainly not possible for the Estonian state to maintain a broad spectrum of educational institutions in every area. I'm afraid that's true. We still need to reconcile different interests and different considerations with reality. As far as vocational education is concerned, the trend has already been taken in the past to develop a good-quality material base for vocational education and training institutions in the county centres. The regional dimension, however, is more of a topic that falls within the scope of general education, i.e. it concerns the school network in general, how to ensure proper education for all Estonian children. This certainly concerns a much larger number of municipalities than those in whose territory there was still a vocational school. This also applies to those who have a general education school. The network of general education schools is a very sharp and important topic that the Riigikogu will have to deal with in the near future, deciding how to finance the provision of general education in Estonia so that the regional dimension is adequately taken into account in the restructuring process.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U32	Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You didn't answer Mailis Reps' question, so I'm going to try to ask you the opposite question. Are you aware of the future structure of vocational training institutions in Estonia? You said you were going to do it on the run, but either way, all the counties are going to do their own development plan, including the part that relates to vocational training and education at all. Local authorities also carry out strategic development plans. The other part of my question is whether these development plans are the basis for you or whether you are, like, going on about it only when something starts to burn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U34	Thank you. The Ministry of Education and Research is certainly prepared to negotiate with local governments and counties in essence what their educational restructuring plans are. As far as general education schools are concerned, this subject, as I said, will soon be discussed seriously. We must certainly take into account the interests of the local community in organising education. In VET, however, the overall trend has been taken much earlier. Vocational education is generally coordinated and vocational schools are owned by the state. It will develop the bases for vocational training facilities in the county centres for this purpose. We also currently have municipal vocational schools, which my colleague, Mailis Reps, spoke about. They are not directly in this national concept. If you have any particular interest in any school, please ask me. I will certainly look into what the situation is and what the future prospects of this school are. For this debate, I am open in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U35	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are also schools in the Southeast region that have taken part in the renewal and change. One of them is the Vocational Training Centre in Valgamaa, where the study has a new form and new content. In the last financial period of the European Union, however, they lost money to support the Centre of Excellence. Please tell me if there are plans to support competence centres in the new EU funding period.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U37	The funding of competence centres is not an area of the Ministry of Education and Research. This is, in essence, a regional policy issue that is dealt with by the Ministry of the Interior. So, as far as the new financial period is concerned, unfortunately, I do not know whether these amounts are planned or not. I know that, for example, the establishment of a competence centre at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre is currently up and the European Union's resources are provided for there. At the same time, there is a certain financial over-planning and there is a question mark in the air as to whether or not it is possible to apply for money in the new period. So, unfortunately, I can't give you an answer right now, but I can find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U38	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U39	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I understand the situation is complicated and you are in a position to protect the Ministry of Education and Research in the eyes of the people. My question relates, in substance, to what Mr Eldar Efendiev asked. We're talking about a development plan. What is the state of rural government today, and what does the mayor think? Have you spoken to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U40	When it comes to the functioning and role of rural government in general, I am not going to answer that question. Everyone knows the state of our regional political leadership. A large number of tasks will require administrative reform so that we can move forward more rationally with these issues. My personal opinion is that rural governments could play a greater role, but I do not think this was the core of the question. As far as a specific question is concerned, as I said, the Round Table, which includes a number of different organisations, including the Võru County Government, has started to operate to solve Vocational Education issues in Võrumaa. We will certainly consult them on this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U41	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you to the Minister. Let's continue the negotiations. I'm gonna ask for a chair at Heimar Leng first!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be very hard on the young minister, but there's no point in coming to this hall with unprepared answers. Your office is the same one that was in the last minister's office. Make it clear to yourself! Point one: you said that there is no study base in Southeast Estonia, there are no teachers. There, 24 teachers remained unemployed in Antsla. When I was there, I saw that the workshops were full of tools and machines, while the students were taken away. School's been sloppy. Go on. You lied directly on the remote that the municipal roundtable has recently found solutions. I quote, Minister, listen! This letter has been sent a month ago and it is written as follows: 'The Union of Municipalities of Võrumaa is addressing you with a proposal (Jutt is a minister. be allowed to continue teaching a specialty in the field of construction on the basis of a public school order at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. That's how it's been for decades. " And now listen to how benevolent the rulers are with you! Now listen to what else is written in this letter: 'It is predictable, Minister, your desire to deal with hogs in Võrumaa, but not to develop education. " It's a quote from a letter signed by the local government leaders. This is the climate in Võrumaa. And you come here to tell me that everything is agreed with them. It doesn't exist! In order not to restrict my personal position, I will also quote to you a large article from the Võrumaa Official Journal, which appeared a month and a half ago, and I will show you the newspaper so that you can see that it exists. Here's a professor you said they're all very pleased with. 'We have been deceived,' commented Reet Urb, the development manager of the Väimela Vocational Education Centre. According to him, the group was well filled in in autumn, but then the students had to be told that the construction profession would not be opened. " Unexpectedly, such an order came from the Ministry of Education. That's how your ministry does things on the ground. I quote further: 'The abolition of the construction specialty of Väimelast means, in essence, that Vana-Antsla School was not merged with Väimela School, as promised, but that school was abolished at all. The school was deceiving students, teachers, and the entire community. In addition to closing the popular school in Vana-Antsla, the Ministry of Education and Research will lose the specialties of applied higher education that are popular with Väimela this autumn. ' They've been brought here a whole series. 'This is a particularly serious blow to an area where there is already a lack of opportunities for education,' writes people from Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. In total, a few hundred places of study will be lost as a result of the changes. Mr. Minister, a few hundred places of study are lost in Southeast Estonia, and you say there are no students! The trend is, when young people leave the area, they don't come back. The Minister of Education and Research, who was elected from Võrumaa to the Riigikogu three years ago, has spoken about the previous minister, you have been elected from somewhere else, and who has set up his entire election campaign to teach rural areas in Võrumaa, has given up. And it seems to me that you, Mr Ossinovski, have given up Võrumaa vocational education in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U43	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Of course, what is happening around Vana-Antsla school has been the subject of disputes for quite several years, but behind the so-called merger, many other regions see similar issues. If schools are merged and not closed, a signal will be given that teachers, students and areas of these schools will be passed on. This signal was also given to the people of Vana-Antsla School, and indeed everything that has happened that the previous speaker spoke about here quite loudly is a disappointment on the ground. It seems that a certain promise was made to the school, as the minister just said from this remote control, and he does not know why such a promise was made just to take emotions out for a period. We saw the same thing in Valgamaa when Helme and Valga School were merged. At first it was said that basically everything remained the same, but over the years we saw that this was not the case. This spring, the theme of Tusketsa and Pärnu schools has risen painfully. Whoever comes from this area will surely know how emotionally the decline in sector-specific education has been monitored. This year, too, there has been a discussion about how much dense forest remains. Thus, moving vocational education to county centres is a painful issue. In addition, there are schools outside the county centre in Raplamaa, as well as in Ida-Virumaa. Some of these schools have unexpectedly escaped several closing circles. In fact, it may not be so unexpected, since in the meantime the government's exchange and political decisions were changed. But yes, because of any such disappointment, not only are dozens of jobs lost but also other very painful problems. One of the issues that has not been addressed today, but which some of the ambassadors in this Chamber have already begun to discuss among themselves, is to support the various weaker target groups, be they pupils with special needs, young people without basic education or young people with social problems. This support is not offered as strongly in large centres as in smaller communities. The relatively small schools in the counties, usually with a few hundred students, have also taken on the socio-economic concerns of such young people. There have been no such opportunities in county centres. Those who have been to Vana-Antsla Vocational High School have had the pleasure of watching students from all over the region, often from other counties, who were not able to study there. We can see the same now in Vigala and some other smaller schools. It is certainly not the target group that is easily connected to a higher and higher education school. Who's going to deal with such a sensitive contingent? Recognising in general the need to make vocational education more effective, I would like to say that, since these are public schools, the state should realise that often saved cents or euros mean a completely closed road for a large number of students. Are they children with special needs, young people without basic education, or just stuck between life's gears for social reasons? These young people are not offered opportunities in large centres. But it is these alternatives that the state should allow, that must be the responsibility of the state. I would like to sum up all this discussion on the proposal that the new minister should discuss when analysing the development plan for children with special needs, and I hope that, in the form that the previous minister has given it to you, it will not be accepted, either, the possibility of giving vocational education to these children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U45	Thank you very much. Call chair, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every day we read statistics about the decline in people in the country. It is said that twenty years later the number of inhabitants in the county centres is considerably lower. And it's like there's nothing we can do about it. The state is watching or, in this case, the state is even moving towards the fact that there are no people in the country at all. After all, there were all the conditions in Old Antsla that this school could have worked on. There were students there, there were teachers, there was interest in the specialty, community support was there and the municipality supported it. But they shut down school after all. I ask what purpose the country has in mind. To argue that we did not have the money to boost the material base of this school seems a little strange, looking at how much European Union money can be used in vocational education. It is clear that the closure of this school also closed the life of a nice region in the future. It is clear that Old Antsla is going to fade. The state is implementing a regional policy measure by maintaining jobs and schools in the country, and if the leaders have not understood it, it is very sad to watch it. I'll just give you a few examples where the centers have faded. One is Helme. Helmes could have moved the professional center, but it was transferred to Valka. Now there are empty buildings on the side of the road. If the state shuts down somewhere, it could also be good to ensure that empty buildings are destroyed or other applications are found for the buildings. The same is true in Tähtmetsa, where the former technician was merged with the Pärnumaa Vocational Education Centre. Now, go through the dense woods and see what a picture is going to be! It wouldn't be like our Estonia. The dorms where the students lived are confused with windows. The Ministry's buildings are no longer interested. With EU money, a proper vocational education centre was built in Pärnu and it is clear that the last specialties will also be removed from the dense forest. But who's gonna take out the dorms at the old school? This is not like the concern of the Estonian state. At the same time, I will also mention a positive example of regional policy. If Räpina had not been invested and the Räpina Gardening School had also been recognised as unopposed, then Räpina would be quite different today. Thanks to the help of the state, it has been possible to keep life in Räpina; people find work and activity there. After all, the activities of the school affect a wider area than the school alone. It provides opportunities for trade, service, etc. to survive. I find it sad that the whole country's activities are directed towards centres. Let's not be surprised that there are almost no more people in our country. In my opinion, it is high time to change priorities and to keep the few schools that remain in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U47	Thank you very much. The addressee of the inquiry, or the minister, would also like to take the floor. Please get to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U48	I'll bring out a few points. In response to Mr Leng, we will be able to discuss matters in essence if we do not twist each other's words. I have not said that everyone is satisfied with this decision. I didn't say that! Surely this problem has aroused emotions and not everyone's interests have been taken into account in the decision-making process. Secondly, the public training order will continue in the construction industry from 1 September of this year. It's not true that it won't come. It's coming! Thirdly, on professional higher education. This was not reflected in the round of questions, so let me say a few words about it. The Riigikogu has also discussed in detail whether Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre may or may not provide professional higher education. The current agreement, which has already been concluded before my term of office, is such that they will continue to do so in 2016/2017. until the beginning of the academic year, and then they create their fifth-level vocational training specialties. And as far as professional higher education is concerned, they agree with other higher education institutions where these levels of education can be carried out. I hope you are aware that it was decided at the Round Table on 11 April to set up a working group to analyse the subject of applied higher education in the wood specialty. It could not be taken directly by any university right now, but there is a clear need for it. The working group will be composed of representatives of the University of Life Sciences, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, Ministry of Education and Research and employers in the woodworking sector. The aim is to draw up a joint curriculum which is offered by the University of Life Sciences and Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre on the other side. In addition, it is important to note that although the current plan for higher vocational education in Võrumaa in 2016/2017. basically, the Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre's budget will not decrease by this amount. All the money that the state currently allocates to it remains that Võrumaa will be able to provide quality vocational education and training. In reply to the questions of Mailis Reps, I admit that I fully agree with both points. I don't think it's fair to hide the real plans to take down emotions. If the reality is that we have to shut down a school in some kind of perspective, then we have to be honest about it. If everything is properly discussed in sufficient time and found a solution where educators go, where and how children go, then it is probably possible to make an agreement. Certainly not everyone is satisfied, but it is still possible to reach an honest agreement. I think this is generally a sensible way of doing things. As regards pupils with special educational needs in vocational schools, this issue is on the agenda. This morning, I met with the Minister of Social Affairs at the Ministry of Social Affairs to analyse more broadly the concept of children with special educational needs and how we will proceed with this. The level of vocational education is certainly an important issue here, and I agree with the approach that we should avoid and work towards dead ends in any level of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U49	Thank you very much. The question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U50	The second item is the inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Jevgeni Ossinovski, presented on 19 March 2014 by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vaarmanni, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme, Vladimir Velman and Valeri Korb. On behalf of the heirs, please perform for Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U51	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the higher education reform, the system of education grants was changed and students from underprivileged families have the opportunity to apply for needs-based education support as of this academic year. This allowance is determined on the basis of the student's average income. The basis for calculating the student's average income is the income taxable on the income tax of the student and his or her family members for the previous calendar year. When calculating the need-based education allowance, parents, underage sisters, brothers, half-sisters and half-brothers are considered family members. A household using common sources of income shall not be counted. The application for needs-based student support has been rejected for many students precisely because, according to the population register, the student has a parent who is expected to support the student. Actually, a lot of parents don't. Let me give an example of one particular case. A young woman with a mother and a stepfather joined the University of Tartu last autumn. The mother's monthly salary is 400 euros, the stepfather is a pensioner. Thus, household income is very low. A young woman entering the university does not receive need-based education support because she has a father abroad who is claimed to be a pretty wealthy person. The student has the right to apply for needs-based education allowance twice a year, while the student's economic situation may change in the meantime. Minister Aaviksoo has said here in the Riigikogu that in the event of a change in the student's economic situation, the university can use a small buffer designed specifically to solve exceptional cases. In February this year, I asked Jaak Aaviksoo whether this buffer could help in the case described above. To answer, the Minister asked to be sent the case-related papers so that he could work them out. He worked them out, and I got the exact same answer as the first one. Used was just a copy-paste move. In this regard, we are forced to turn to Mr Ossinovski, perhaps his view of things is a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U52	Thank you very much. I ask for a chair of speech, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U53	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. Before going to specific questions such a general reply that all the questions that the heirs have asked have been quite actively discussed here in the Riigikogu during the processing of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act. So the subject is certainly not new to me or to the Ministry of Education and Research in general. At the time that this law was adopted, the arguments as to why the system was approached in this way were quite understandable, albeit debatable. The new government has agreed, and there is also a clear point in the government's action plan that we will analyse from the experience of the first semesters how the needs-based learning support system has been implemented. If necessary, we are prepared to amend this law. Now to the questions. The first question is whether students whose family income is low can apply for support from the institution's emergency fund. Indeed, every year, the Ministry of Education and Research allocates funds to educational institutions for the payment of study grants. Up to 50% of the basic support fund's money may be allocated to the Special Support Fund, but this applies only to the old education allowance system, which is valid until 2015/2016. until the end of the academic year. For students who have been matriculated since 2013/2014. from the academic year, the new needs-based system will apply and will not receive support from this fund. At present, institutions are able to support their students, if they are seriously needed, from the amounts allocated under the operating grant or at the expense of their own resources. Universities have done so with strength. At the same time, as a member of the Riigikogu, and now as a minister, I have been talking about the fact that we could also create a special fund for exceptional cases if the data of the Tax and Customs Board on the income of families do not reflect the reality. We are now considering different options for organising this system, and in the near future we will come up with our concept. I would like to sum up the next two questions. The second question: 'Very many students have been deprived of need-based support, as the application for support is based on a family rather than on a shared household on a daily basis. At the same time, there are many cases where one of the biological parents does not support their child and has never done so. What are you going to do to make the system more flexible and to make the need-based learning support fairer? ' And the third question: 'About 3,000 students have been deprived of the required education allowance. How many students were deprived of the need-based education allowance because the basis for applying for the allowance is family and not a shared household? ' Well, it's a matter of taste to say that someone lost their student allowance or didn't get the education allowance he could own. The Ministry of Education and Research has taken into account that nearly one third of students who have started to study, whose family income is persistently low, can apply for needs-based education support. More specifically, according to the Ministry, around 3000 young people will be able to receive support in the Spring semester call. To date, over 2,000 students have received support. However, just under a third of the students who could receive this support as soon as they applied for have not submitted an application. The need-based application of education support doubled the amount allocated to study grants from the state budget. Thus, as a whole, all capable young people have the opportunity to focus on their studies. Access to higher education for young people from persistently low-income families is supported by the provision of needs-based learning support. At the same time, the topic was quite acute in the Riigikogu as to whether the concept of a rather arbiter family or the concept of a household should be taken into account when setting study grants. There are various arguments. The argument for the current system is certainly its simple administration. This makes it possible to understand clearly how many applicants there are and to maintain the whole system quite effectively. Any other system should be implemented by allocating more money from the state budget to keep it operational. This means that with the same money, we should also pay for the administration of the system, and this would reduce the amount that goes into education grants. On the other hand, of course, I agree that the composition of families is different. In addition to the traditional family model, marriage-like forms of life exist; some people raise a child alone, etc. It is certainly reasonable to analyse whether it is not reasonable to grant exceptions to a general family-based application for young people who do not receive needs-based learning support because the family definition in the law restricts them relatively arbiterally. I assure you that we have both mapped out the problems relating to the special fund and the concept of family and household. At the moment, I think it would be very difficult to switch completely to a system where the provision of needs-based learning support would be similar to the grant of income support. These discussions were held in due course. It would probably require much more administration from either the ministry or universities, or from the social workers of the municipality and the city. Obviously, no one has a special desire to deal with these matters free of charge, and that would mean channelling considerable additional resources into this area, which would certainly reduce the amount that is going to be paid for needs-based learning grants. However, I admit that there is a problem in itself. One of the first things I did as a minister was that I ordered an analysis from inside the house of how the education support system was implemented. We will discuss all the issues and possible changes and make the system more sensible so that all young people who need support from the state to devote themselves to their studies can receive this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U54	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Very many students have been deprived of need-based support because the decision on the application is based on a family rather than on a jointly managed household. I ask, Minister, the following. Do you think that, with regard to the law on the partnership to be dealt with, the circle of applicants can expand considerably and become clear in the house? Doesn't that create fictitious couples?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U56	The processing of the Cohabitation Act is the competence of the Riigikogu. The ministries have not intervened in this process. However, I do not have this analysis at hand at the moment how this could affect the need-based system of education support. However, I repeat: it is up to our ministry to ensure that all students who need state support for their studies receive it. As I have already said in my answers, I agree with the respondents that this system could be more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U57	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm trying to squeeze two questions in for a minute. In general, I am a little disappointed because I had the impression today in the Commission that you have a clear understanding of what this law will be like. Now I understand that we're just creating some kind of special fund to try to correct mistakes, but basically we're not fixing them. It's a marginal note. But the question is that the maintenance obligation arising out of family law, due to parenthood, does not in any way extend to a 24-year-old student. Do you not see any contradiction in that we generally have the law that I have to support my child until I am 18 or until I am 21 when she is studying in a vocational school, but when granting this education allowance, we are based on the fact that children must be maintained until the age of 24? However, no law obliges an elder to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U59	Thank you. I don't know where I was wrong now, either here or this morning in the Committee on Culture. But I will repeat once again that our aim is to develop a concept by which all students who need state support receive it. How can this be arranged? Let's wait for this analysis and see what the results are. I believe that, in essence, it is possible to make the whole system more flexible without changing the general principle, but I do not rule out the possibility of considering changing some of the current criteria. As for the 24-year-old in the law, this is obviously a rather arbiterous limit. This was also discussed very actively in the Riigikogu in its time. According to my memory, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has also assessed maintenance obligations. I am now indebted to what their opinion was exactly. But in any case, according to the new concept and after we have done the analyses and are planning to change the system, this is definitely one of the places of discussion for the Riigikogu. It is necessary to analyse whether the criteria set at that time have proved to be the most reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U60	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I still have the impression that you already have a vision of how to act. You have the concept that we need to analyse what the real situation is. However, you are already admitting that there is a breach in the current law, and this special fund must neutralize this failure in any way or in any way. Is it wise to act like this, I don't know. On the other hand, it is understandable that this is not so much a problem today as a problem for the future, because quite a number of children are already born not in an official family, but simply in cohabitation. So it can be predicted that this is a long-term major problem in our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U62	The law on partnership proceedings will certainly have an impact on the need-based law on education support. I didn't deny that. I told you the Ministry hasn't analyzed the impact. As one comment, I would like to say that the current definition of family, which imposes certain limitations, is certainly lacking, but, on the other hand, there are also shortcomings in this second approach, which is based on the household. The question is that if you act according to the concept of the Social Welfare Act, it means more administrative burden. However, if we act on the basis of a much simpler concept that everyone living at the same address forms a household, then we know what this will mean. This certainly does not increase fairness or transparency, as registration and re-registration of one address as required is not a very difficult undertaking. Where is the place of reasonable balance, so that, on the one hand, we can manage the system properly and, on the other hand, ensure that, as I say for the third time, all students in need of state support receive it? It seems the easiest thing to do is to provide for differences in the circumstances in which a student should, in essence, receive student support, but because of the restrictive conditions of some law, it is not possible to do so. I think the solution to the special fund is worth serious consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U63	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to the content of your recent response. As you know, you were familiar with this matter even before you joined the ministerial office. What could this concept of yours really mean? If a biological parent is able to give up his child, will the student also be able to give up his biological parent if he can prove that, for example, during his entire 21 years of age, he has never received a maintenance allowance from that parent or that he knew nothing about his father living in Australia until the social worker told him that he would not receive support because of that father? What opportunities do students have if they want their biological parent's income to be ignored?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U65	I think it could be one of the functions of a special fund. The student could announce that yes, according to the formal conditions laid down by law, I should not receive student support, but the actual situation is quite different. If he can prove it, I think he has a substantive right to receive student support. In what way can it be reasonably arranged, we are now analysing this. It is clear that no possible implementing agency is particularly impressed with the administration of such a system. But in the end, it is certainly in the interests of society, so that all students in need of support can receive support, and we hope to create such a system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U66	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U67	Mr. President! I would like to argue a little bit against the Minister. I like that this issue has been taken up and that Mr Ossinovski agrees that there are problems in this area and is ready to deal with them. That is most commendable. But the idea of a special fund, when it sounded from this remote control for the fifth or sixth time, somehow gripped my ear. I finally figured out what this was all about. The thing is, we're always pushing for this special fund. I repeat to you what I have already said when I ask the question: we have one law, which is at least partly the law of failure. And then we're going to create some kind of special fund that's going to take out this crack, but basically, the law isn't being improved. That special means that need-based education support doesn't become the norm, it remains a special thing, and a person has to walk and prove that he doesn't know anything about his Australian father. At the same time, the university official who decides the matter wants to get paid. I don't see much difference here where we're gonna administer it, either at a special fund or somewhere in the Social Welfare Department. All the more so, we're actually talking about 3,000 students. It's not that much. This is not a huge burden that would actually fall on our social welfare departments. About 3,000, I believe, could manage without the cost being very abnormal. As far as the obligation to support a child until the age of 24, we must open up this issue once because, in essence, we make the future of a young person dependent on whether he or she has responsible and wealthy parents. If not, we'll say goodbye to him, the law doesn't provide you with help, and you won't get it. We're in front of a broken trough. One more thing in the minister's speech hurt me. Now, if we were to go on the way to the household, that is to say, to a registered 'family' address, then we all know where it ends. People are going to register where they don't know. It reminds me of the infamous Raua Street sauna, where 126 students of one good school lived at one time, according to official records. Nobody's gonna funny about 70 euros. If our people are already in such a situation that they have to do so, then we have to solve this problem in a different way. And even if someone makes a crook and gets 70 euros and gets what they've learned for it, then let him get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U68	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U69	Dear colleagues, I have good news for you. As always on Mondays, after questioning, there is an opportunity to speak in a free microphone. Anyone who wishes to sign up for this, please do so after the hammer hit. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, When I worked in the local government, I was used to hearing constant accusations that the local government was a place of corruption. Three years ago, I got sick of talking about it, and I picked up a publication like Crime in Estonia, and I picked up several of them. Ministers have constantly said that corruption exists mainly in municipalities. But it became clear that in 2009 there were 203 corruption offences in Estonia and 111 or 54.7% in public institutions, only 16% in local governments, or 3.5 times less. Maybe it was a coincidence, I thought and picked up the yearbook Crime in Estonia in 2010. It turned out that in that year, 223 corruption crimes were recorded, 118 or 52.9% of them committed in public authorities, 16% in local authorities, or 3.25 times less than in public authorities. When I talk about state agencies, they are ministries, inspections under their authority, judicial and prison systems, police, car registers, etc., so that they can be understood. The picture did not change much in 2011, when 196 corruption crimes were committed, 112 of them, or 57.1% in public institutions, 18.4% in local governments, or more than three times less than in public authorities. Why do I compare these percentages? You understand perfectly that many fewer people work in public institutions than in local governments. And if there are fewer people, but the level of corruption is three times higher, then the intensity of committing corruption crimes in public authorities must be several times higher than in local governments. I thought we could end this, but not only am I reading the Yearbooks Crime in Estonia. On 25 January 2012, when President Ilves said in an interview with the Financial Times that we only have problems with corruption at local government level, because there Parliament cannot legally intervene in order to ensure transparency. In fact, however, as you have seen from the figures, the problem of corruption is precisely in the public authorities, where Parliament can intervene. In the last year's book, I read to my fellow Members, I have sad news for you that corruption in public institutions has increased by almost 50% between 2011 and 2013. 76% of registered corruption offences are committed by public authorities, including public private bodies. 76%! In previous years it was 53%, 54% and 57%, now 76%. Corruption in public authorities is increasing. You can't miss it. I think that we should constantly come back to this issue in the coming years, a serious debate is needed. Maybe we need to do research, maybe we need to talk to specialists who share something. But it needs to be dealt with, because otherwise our country will drown in corruption. The fish is starting to rot in the head. If 76% of all corruption crimes are committed in public authorities, it is clear that this is already a disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U71	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U72	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, My mother once taught me that the word has power, and I believed for a long time that it was. So he was when I worked in the press, so he was even in this Chamber of the Riigikogu in the early years when speaking with speeches that really went into the crowd and had the strength. But now to today's subject. On 23 January 2013, so more than a year ago, I, together with 11 members of the Central Party Group, submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Among other questions was the following: "There are numerous level crossings in Estonia, which are one level with the roadway. How is it planned to ensure the safety of train running after the planned increase in train speed? 'The minister replied at length and said that by 2018 at the latest the situation would be improved. It was like the subject was exhausted. On 16 September last year and on 21 January that year, I spoke in an open microphone on the same subject and raised these questions again. A week ago, a train accident occurred in Raasik's traffic junction, where two people died. And now I ask you this: how many people must die in the Republic of Estonia, so that the word really has power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U73	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Priit Sibula!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last Thursday, before the big holiday, Rait Maruste handed over the draft law on partnership on behalf of the 40 representatives of the three political groups. This draft plans to rewrite the current family institution. The timing is amazing. Christians celebrate a great festival, and almost the whole world deals with the critical problems of Ukraine. I really do not understand why it is now necessary to deal with issues that polarise society. However, I have an idea of who would benefit from such instability and confusion. Since the family is under the protection of the state as a basis for the maintenance, growth and society of the people in accordance with Article 27 of the Constitution, we are an institution with constitutional protection. Clearly, when we drafted the constitution, it was the union of man and woman that was meant by family. This has been confirmed in a commentary on the Constitution, and it is also a common sense approach, because only a connection between a man and a woman can breed in the people's background. It therefore has a constitutional duty to protect the family institution from, among other things, ideologically motivated attempts to redefine it. All of this makes it very clear that, in our society, if there is a real desire to redefine a family institution in a meaningful way, this must be done in a referendum. The Constitution itself has also been adopted in a referendum, and so should mostly also be changes relating to the Constitution. Since this is a decision of principle in which there is conflicting opinions in society, it is not acceptable to divide society in difficult times with one-sided decisions that ignore the beliefs of many people. If we want to act like real democrats, we need to put the law on partnership in a referendum. Last year, more than 38,000 people signed a petition against this law was submitted to the Riigikogu. It is a petition with the highest number of votes ever cast against some laws. The question now arises what has become of this petition, which reflects the position of tens of thousands of people. We have not discussed this in the Riigikogu and there has not been any public debate to respond to these people and what conclusions to draw from expressing the position of such a large number of people. Is it appropriate for a democratic country to leave tens of thousands of people unanswered? Last spring, the Ministry of Justice announced that it would not prepare a draft law on partnership. In March of this year, however, it suddenly appeared that the draft had been drafted secretly, as well as an explanatory statement on several dozen pages. Who, after all, has prepared this bill, and why was it secretly done? At the end of March, when the draft was actively circulating for the first time, it was claimed that it was a draft of a group of political groups of the Riigikogu. A closer investigation revealed that neither such a working group nor the Commission existed. Why is it so dim when the initiators say that this is such an important issue? In his Thursday speech, Maruse himself spoke of this draft as a very fundamental amendment, referring to the Chancellor of Justice. I quote: 'The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out the need for an appropriate revolution several years ago. Finally, by becoming the law of the bill, we are basically moving away from the relations and values of the private sphere from the Soviet legal space and mentality. ' There is another position of the Chancellor of Justice. Before Teder, the Chancellor of Justice, Mr Jõks, has given the opinion that the Constitution of Estonia and the international legislation of the Estonian legal system, including the European Union, do not give rise to the right of homosexual couples to require the regulation of the same-sex partnership and that enabling the same-sex partnership has been at least a matter of political decision by the states, in which the Chancellor of Justice cannot intervene as a constitutional institution. Finally, I have a request to the initiators of the draft and to the Committee on Legal Affairs that will be dealing with the draft: in order for an honest and substantive debate to be held, let us separate this draft into two parts. One would regulate the legal relationship between same-sex people. Let it be said immediately that I do not support it and do not consider it necessary to extend the concept of a family compared to the concept in force. The second draft would deal with the relations between heterosexual couples, which you claim need to be regulated. I think that all the necessary opportunities already exist at the legal level, but I cannot oppose this draft. If there are better working solutions, we will discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U75	Thank you. I now request the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U76	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, and all the people who will hear me or read the verbatim report later! I've decided I don't talk or write about same-sex couples at all. My views are already known, and I'm a little emotional sometimes. As far as the gender-neutral law on cohabitation is concerned, I would put the emphasis on a completely different aspect. As my colleague onion has just said, this bill sat in a dark closet for a long time, and suddenly came out of the closet. In fact, it is not known who wrote it and how it was written. Actually, it's a very interesting bill. If we reject the aspect of couples of our own sex, the situation is that very many young people simply do not register their marriage for purely material reasons. They're gonna lose a lot of money if they sign up for a marriage. Banks grant loans and allow certain leases or other financial products to people who live together but have not registered their marriage. It's written into one name, and if something happens to this one, God forbid, it's just that the bank has lost the money, and there's no one to collect it from. And in order to ensure that two people who have registered their life together have more guarantees to offer them more of these financial products and to lay more financial obligations on their backs and make sure that money is recovered afterwards, people need to be forced to register their family. Whether it is formed as a marriage in a church or as a cohabitation in a local government, a notary, wherever it may be, only so that the obligations can be confirmed by both partners. The draft debate is currently taking place on social networks, people talking about it either in their home kitchen or outdoors in their sunglasses or anywhere, and everyone only highlights this aspect of their own kind of couples. But that is the least of the concerns in this bill. It seems that the mask of couples of their own sex is drawn to this bill to distract attention. I would recommend that everyone observe very closely how the debate on this draft will take place in the Chamber, which aspects will come to light and how the Riigikogu will decide. I have made my decision at heart, and I very much hope that most members of the Riigikogu will make a reasoned decision based on the beliefs of the Estonian people and the purpose of our people's survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-21_U77	Thank you. I don't see any more calls, the free microphone round is over. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.35 p.m.
