ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a democratic rule of law founded on freedom in accordance with our constitution, where everyone is equal before the law, everyone's rights and freedoms are respected and no one is to be discriminated against. On the basis of this general assumption, we 40 parliamentarians from three different political groups have the honour to introduce a draft law on partnership. We do not consider it justified that in a society that respects the freedoms of a person today, some people's daily lives have remained less protected than others because of their deep personal choices and preferences. Our constitution clearly states that everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law and that everyone is equal before the law. To all advocates of classical marriage and family values, let it be assured that marriage is and will remain a relationship between husband and wife. You don't have to miss anything, you won't be taken away. The area for regulating the draft law on cohabitation is wider than solving the problems of gay and lesbian people. Even if we reduce the bill to this topic, which is not right, let us understand that gay and lesbian people have not been sent to us from somewhere in space, but are children of our heterosexual parents. Are we going to push them away? Should we also reject red - headed ones or left - handed ones as different? Heterosexual couples who live together are also engaged in need of legal protection. They are in a number of legal relationships but have not yet entered a formal marriage. The bill is also trying to help them. As a mature and tolerant democratic society, we must accept that the modern concept of family life is wider than marriage. Each of us, including those who are different in some of our choices, is entitled to such a family life. Different forms of cohabitation require appropriate legal regulation. The draft is not ideal, complete or without debate, but it is certainly a necessary starting point for moving forward, for public debate and for changing the situation. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed to the need for an appropriate revolution several years ago. Finally, by becoming the law of the bill, we are, in principle, also moving away from the relations and values of the private sphere from the Soviet legal space and mentality. Let's hope for your understanding constructive spirit and attitude. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U3	A procedural question, Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, we have a letter on our tables entitled "Appreciation of the Speaker to the Estonian Parliament." It's very hard to find out whose speaker this is.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U5	Thank you very much, good fellow. I just haven't gotten this far with the messages yet to introduce it. But if you ask me, I will say: this is the welcome speech of the President of the Lower House of the British Parliament, His Excellency, Mr John Bercow" in front of this House today. Tarmo Tamm, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee initiates a draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu. Its main aim is to harmonise the work of Riigikogu committees on the minutes of sittings and the obligation to record committee sessions. The draft defines the status of sound recordings and regulates their preservation and access. In addition, the form and content of the minutes of the meetings of the Commission shall be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U7	Thank you, good fellows. There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Management Board and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We're gonna do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16. Dear fellow Members, today we have the great honour of meeting here in the Chamber of Riigikogu with the Chairman of the Lower House of the British Parliament, His Excellency, Mr John Bercow, who will also give a welcome speech. The call is in English and its translation is distributed on your desks. Your Excellence, Mr Bercow, the floor is yours. Please! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U8	Mister Deputy Speaker, Mister Speaker, most excellent host, Excellencies, parliamentary colleges, friends of the United Kingdom as I hope I can confiidently say just we regard ourselves as friends of Estonia! It is a huge hour and a privilege to be interested to be among your number today and to have the chance to express my goodwill and love on the part of my country towards all of you here assembled, the elected representatives of the people of Estonia. Thank you for the generality on your invitation and the evident woman of your welcome. It is my pleasure to be here. As you all know, Colleagues, I come as a representative of a very old Parliament, whose 157th Speaker I am. We would claim to be the oldest parliament in the enter world, but I rather imagine that our friends in Iceland would problem that, and I think it is fair to say that I am here as a representative of an old parliament but for the exact purpose of hearing from and learning the lessons to be represented by a much younger one. Having a long history has many advantages but it can of course make an institution slow, some even sluggish to adopt to change. Estonia, by contrast, as a Parliament, Estonia as a society and Estonia as a national culture has proven to be an early pioneer in the quest to ensure democratic institutions through technology innovation. This is an observation I first made in a speech in New Zealand last summer and the subject has become a concern personal priority for me as Speaker of the House of Commons. There are many reasons I have to emphasize and underline why a person might want to visit Estonia and I am sure that I will enjoy every aspect of this trip but the crisis, college, to understand more about your e-democracy beaches without questioning as my principal objective. Before I say anything further, Mister Deputy Speaker, Colleagues, may I please take this opportunity to offer to you and to your people my staff condolences on the appalling tragedy that occurred yesterday just outside Tallinn. The families and friends of the victims will be in our minds at what must be for them quit the most Harrowing imaginable time. It probably comes as no solace or comfort to the relatives of the vices to be told that on behalf of my parliament I emphasize we have experienced such tragedies and Orders ourselves. But I would want to wasn't the least as a mark of respect to demonstrate solidarity and empathy with you. Let me, if I may, before I say something about e-democracy, address the framer security situation and the political crisis that has been triggered in and around Ukraine. I agree that this has been a matter of the most abnormal concern for parliamentarians here as, colleges, candidly I must adopt you, it is for us in the United Kingdom. Much time has been spent on this subject in the House of Commons. Many senior ministers, including the Prime Minister, the Foreign Secretary and the Secretary of State for Defence have addressed the issue. Parliament in the United Kingdom most recently heard and it did welcome an announcement from Philip Hammond, our Secretary of State for Defence, on the commitment of Royal Air Force Typhoon to resume Baltic Air Policying and I am pleased that preparations are now being made for their relationship in Lithuania by the end of the month. It is also very good to note that a large number of British soldiers will be here again in May for Estonia was main military exercise of the year, Spring Storm. Both of these actions under our strong commitment to the security of Estonia. More generally on protection policy, it is extremely efficient that our already close bilateral partnership is continuing to die. I know that British military officers have been immensely impressed by the professionalism and by the capacity of the Estonian soldiers with whom they have served together in Helmand in Afghanistan. The Defence Agreement which our two countries signed in December commits us to an even closer relationship in the future, including the work which we are doing together on the development of the Joint Expeditory Force. Furthermore, the visit to Estonia in May by his Royal Highness Prince Harry will be expected the most striking way in which the United Kingdom can ask Estonia for what we have done together to date, and look forward with confidence and protection to the future. There is, Mister Deputy Speaker, Colleagues, also from my vantage point and the vantage point of my parliament, a notable beaconcy about being here today and awarded the privileged to address you, for I am conscious of the presentation of your proposed law on generic-neutal cohabitation. Needless to say, and for the advance of doubt, the legislation that you pass is you as parliamentarians, for your institution and for your people to decide upon and evaluate. I would simply like to make the point in passing, however, that the United Kingdom has gone down this track and it is something of which I think the major of my parliamentary colleges and Fellow citizens are very proud of. A speaker of the UK parliament, you will apply that I will have to be the referee of the match and not a player for one team or the other. I must oversee in the Chamber matters of convergence and I do not opine on same-sex marriage or indeed any other subject of dispute. My response is simple to ensure the free and fair conduct of the match and to maximise the number of different opinions and opinions that can be heard. That said, before I was elected as Speaker of the House of Commons, I did have a track record going back over a decade of campaigning for the rights of LGBT people. And for what is this worth, it seems to me that countering discrimination and phosphate quality of aesthem and quality before the law, quality of protection are the right things to do. Discrimination against and Harassment or ill-treating of LGBT people frankly is elling, it is dehumanizing and it was a general of people's natural and legitimate expectations that they will be treated equally with their fellow citizens before the law. In the United Kingdom we have gone over a period of 50 years, from the criminalization of a type of love to the reality of equality before the law and it is something about which the bulk of my colleges, including our Prime Minister and myself, are very present. So you will pursuant to your own course but I wish you Godspeed and I would want you to know that you have many friends and admirers, as you seek progressively to move beyond the past to a more enlightened future. The future for democracies such as our own has to include finding new ways to bond, colleges, elected representatives more close to the represented voter. This is a common call for legal acts through the world. We live in an age of intense media activity but, colleges, with a media that is restless and a media that demands instant answers to questions which are often too complicated and calling for an immediate reply. Legislatures are deliberative bodies. Deliberation is not already recognised with a 24/7 media schedule. We have to assert the right to think through important issues in the best possible continent while simultaneously occurring our electorates that we are truly focused on the subjects of most concern to them. If we do not, we risk becoming increasingly irrelevant, mutation into symbolical political institutions, rather than what is required, namely institutions of semious substance and of topical focus. This is an outcome which we must strive to avoid. We must remain the relevant. I believe that strong democracies require strong parliaments and that strong parliaments require strong links to citizens. In this regard, for what it is worth, I am an optimist. I believe that new technology can assist us in our ambition to become ever closer to those who we look to serve. I think that the internet in all its manifestations can be the means by which we boost electoral participation and then increase personal participation in the vital work which each of our parliaments undertakes. The British Parliament, for example, has an extensive website and it promises an array of social media to spread the message about the activities with which we are engaged. Yet we must use new technology to receive messages as well as to broadcast them. We need to list and not simply to allow or to adopt to clarify. Young vouchers, in particular, will not be interested in us if we do not communicate with them by the means by which they communicate with each other. We have to be part of the smartphone age and not seemingly stick in the stone-age. For that reason, I have established in the UK a Digital Democracy Commission for the United Kingdom. Our objectives, Colleagues, is to consider how our parliamentary democracy can embrace the opportunities afforded by the digital world to become more effective, to become more effective in representing people, more effective in scrutinising the Government of the day, more effective in forming law, more effective in encouraging citizens to ensure with democracy and more effective in balancing dialogue and engagement among citizens. This Digital Democracy Commission I have established is listed and talking to people, taking evidence, from within the UK and across the globe. It will publish its recommendations in January 2015 just about the 750th anniversary of our Parliament. It is as part of that enterprise that I so wanted the opportunity, college, to come to Estonia, or as I better you are increasing coming to be known, e-Estonia and to see for myself what is aciding here. I confess that I am intrigued, as my colleagues increasing are, by the wiidespread use of the Internet in voting at your effects. I am fascinated by the way that you use the internet to link people with problems or issues to this parliament and government departments alike, providing a better and more intimate service, immediately at a cost saving. I note the innovative means by which you are integrating crowded pouring techniques into your civil society. I am also group, if I may say so with reference and adaptation, by the sheer speed at which in your country to your credit all of this is aciding. Your country should be prepared of the reputation which it has achieved for technological leadership in this regard. Estonia is Rapidly being seen as Estonia by all those looking for new ideas in this territory. It also demonstrates your wider, to be candidates, astonishing success, astonishing success as a people over the past 25 years, in not just re-establishment of your sovereignty but in applying your identity. This is a place where people, including myself today, go to look for the future. I am so pleased that you have offered me this opportunity to conduct that search on behalf of the House of Commons. An Ancient parliament looking to learn from a much less Ancient parliament. In thank you for the strength of your welcome, and the chance to learn from your best practice, let me consider by taking this opportunity to wish you and your fellow citizens peace, prosperity and successful partnership with friends and neighbours in Europe and through the world. Colleagues, thank you very much intended! [[Translation.]] Mr. Vice President, honorable hosts! Excellencies, fellow Members and friends of the United Kingdom! I can say with confidence: we consider ourselves Estonian friends! I have the great honour and privilege of being among you today and of conveying good wishes and warm feelings from home to all of you who have gathered here against the elected representatives of the Estonian people. Thank you for your kind invitation and extraordinarily warm welcome. I'm glad to be here. As you know, colleagues, I have come here to represent the very old Parliament of which I am the 157th Speaker. We say that we are the oldest parliament in the world, but I think our Icelandic friends would still argue against it. So I think it would be better to say that I am here as a representative of the old Parliament, with the clear aim of listening to a much younger Parliament whose lessons there are to learn. A long history undoubtedly provides advantages, but of course it can also be the reason that the institution adapts slowly, even very slowly, to change. On the other hand, Estonia as a parliament, Estonia as a society and Estonia as a national culture have set the way to strengthen democratic institutions through technical innovations. I made this observation for the first time in my speech in New Zealand last summer, and this topic has become extremely important to me as Speaker of the House of Commons. I want to highlight quickly the many reasons why someone might want to visit Estonia and I am sure that I will enjoy my coming here in every way. However, ladies and gentlemen, the desire to better understand your emerging e-democracy is undoubtedly my main objective. Mr Vice-Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all express my condolences to you and your people about the terrible tragedy that took place yesterday near Tallinn. We think of the families and friends of the victims at a time that is probably as difficult for them as you can imagine. It is unlikely to comfort or comfort the relatives of the victims when I say, on behalf of my Parliament, that we have been through such tragedies and trials ourselves. But I would also like to show you, as a sign of respect, that I am in solidarity and sympathetic to you. Let me, before I speak about e-democracy, address the broader security situation and the political crisis that has erupted in and around Ukraine. I understand very well that this is a matter of great concern for the Members here, as I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, for us in the UK too. There's a lot of time devoted to this in the House of Commons. Several key ministers, including the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence, have addressed this issue. Recently, Parliament listened to and expressed support for the sending of information by our Minister of Defence, Philip Hammond, on the sending of the Typhoon-type fighters of the Royal Air Force to strengthen air security in the Baltic States. I am pleased that their arrival in Lithuania is being prepared at the end of this month. I am also pleased to note that in May a large number of British soldiers will return to Estonia to participate in this year's most important military exercise Spring Storm. Both actions highlight our deep interest in dealing with Estonia's security. Speaking more broadly about defence policy, it is very encouraging that our already strong bilateral partnership will deepen in the future. I know that the British commanders have been deeply impressed by the professionalism and ability of the Estonian troops with whom they served in Helmand Province in Afghanistan. The Defence Treaty that our two countries signed in December obliges us to maintain even stronger ties in the future, including the work we are working together to develop a common expedition corps. In addition, His Royal Highness Prince Harry's May Visit to Estonia is perhaps England's most outstanding way to thank Estonia for what we have done together so far, and it also helps to look forward with confidence and hope. Mr Vice-Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. From my point of view and from the point of view of our Parliament, my presence here today and the fact that I have the right to address you have a symbolic meaning, because I know that you have submitted a draft law on gender-neutral cohabitation. It does not need to be said to confirm that any reservations should be avoided, that the law is decided, evaluated and adopted by you as MEPs, that is decided by your institution and by your people. However, I would like to mention that the United Kingdom has already gone this way, and that is something that most of my colleagues in Parliament and my fellow citizens are proud of. You understand that as Speaker of Parliament, I have to be an arbiter of the fight, not a player from one team or another. I must act impartially on controversial issues in the Chamber, so I do not express an opinion on same-sex marriage or any other issue. My task is simply to ensure the free and fair course of the match and to maximise the number of votes and opinions that can be heard. I can also say that before I was elected Speaker of the House of Commons, I really had more than a decade's experience in fighting for the rights of LGBT people. At this point, it seems to me that combating discrimination, respecting everyone and supporting equal recognition before the law is the right thing to do. The discrimination against and harassment or ill-treatment of LGBT people is, frankly, humiliating, it is not human and it denies people's legitimate expectations that they should be treated equally before the law with their fellow citizens. We have been through a 50-year period in the United Kingdom from making one kind of love a crime to real equality in front of the law, and that is what most of my colleagues are proud of, the Prime Minister and myself. You must follow your path, but I wish you luck. Know that in your efforts to go from the past to a more enlightened future, you will be supported by many friends and admirers. In the future, democratic countries, like us, will have to look for new ways to link elected representatives more closely to the voter they represent. This is a joint task for the world's legislative bodies. We live in an age of media force, but, ladies and gentlemen, the media is restless and immediately demands answers to questions that are often too difficult and difficult to answer quickly. Legislative bodies are advisory bodies. It is not easy to reconcile the debate with the 24/7 calendar of the media. We must, in the best possible way, establish the right to rethink the main issues by affirming to our voters that we are really dealing with the issues that concern them most. If we do not do so, there is a risk that our importance will continue to decrease, we will become a symbolic political institution, and we will no longer be the institution that is going to be serious and focused on the issues at stake. We must strive to avoid such consequences. We must maintain our influence. I am convinced that strong democracies need strong parliaments and that strong parliaments must have close links with citizens. I'm an optimist about this. I am convinced that new technology can support us in our efforts to draw even closer to those we want to serve. I think that the internet in all its forms can be a means of increasing electoral participation and then increasing personal participation in the very important work that both our parliaments are doing. For example, the British Parliament has a wide-ranging website and we are using the wealth of social media to share information about our activities. However, we must use new technology to receive and disseminate information. We need to listen and not just give lectures or make it look like we're supposed to lecture. Young voters in particular are not interested in us if we do not communicate with them in their own language. We must be part of the timing of the smartphone and must not give the impression that we are still living in the Stone Age. That is why I have set up the UK Committee on Digital Democracy. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to discuss how our parliamentary democracy can take advantage of the opportunities offered by the digital world to be more effective, to represent people better, to monitor more effectively the government in power, to create more effective laws, to strengthen citizens' involvement in democracy, and to promote better dialogue and inclusion between citizens. The Committee on Digital Democracy, which I set up, listens to people and talks to them, gathers evidence from both the United Kingdom and the world. He will publish his recommendations in January 2015, on the 750th anniversary of our Parliament. As part of this endeavour, ladies and gentlemen, I very much wanted to come to Estonia, or to e-Estonia, as you are increasingly known, and to see with my own eyes what is happening here. I admit that I, as well as my colleagues, are increasingly interested in the widespread use of the Internet in your elections. I am fascinated by the way you use the Internet to connect people who have problems or issues, in the same way with both Parliament and government institutions, offering better and closer service to people, often saving expenses. I have noted the innovative ways in which you integrate public opinion-gathering techniques with your civil society. I was also deeply impressed by the fact that, as I can say, with all the respect and high judgment it deserves, the speed at which it all takes place will increase respect for your country. Your country should be proud of the reputation of the technology leader in this area. In the eyes of everyone looking for new ideas in this area, Estonia is rapidly becoming, as I have already said, an e-Estonia. It also shows the wider, frankly amazing success of your people not only in restoring independence but also in enforcing your identity over the last 25 years. This is where people come, just like I came, to see what the future is like. I'm really glad you gave me the opportunity to examine it as a representative of the House of Commons. The ancient Parliament wants to learn from the not-so-old Parliament. By thanking you for your warm welcome and for the opportunity to learn from your best practices, let me finally take this opportunity to wish you and your fellow citizens peace, prosperity and successful partnerships with friends and neighbours both in Europe and globally. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U9	Thank you very much to the guest for his warm words. Let's move on to our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U10	We also have a clarification on today's agenda: on the third point, the draft Act amending the Advertising Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, 592 at first reading, will make a presentation by Kalle Palling, Member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U11	Our first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no requests, so we will go to the preparation of the final vote on the draft 567. I will put draft 567 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 567 amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U12	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, the Law on Law Enforcement and the Law on the Implementation of the Law on Natural Gas, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no requests, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote on draft 557. I will put draft 557 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 557 of the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement and the Act amending the Law on Natural Gas has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U13	We come to the third item on the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft bill to amend the advertising law initiated by the Central Party Group. I ask Eldar Efendiev, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Good fellows, there's gonna be a lot of noise coming from every line in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those who wish to listen to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U14	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Central Party Group submitted a draft law amending the Advertising Act on 12 February. a. Now there is a draft of 592 before you and we are in the process of first reading. The initiators of the draft act had two main objectives. Firstly, ban the promotion of consumer credit, except at the location of the consumer credit service provider, at the location of the consumer credit intermediary, on the website of the consumer credit service provider. The reason for the ban is very aggressive outdoor, television and radio advertising for consumer credit service providers. I don't need to remind you how often and in what form such advertising surrounds us. You could say that with this commercial, we're gonna wake up and we're gonna fall asleep. If you have problems in life, it's only because you didn't take consumer credit on time. In certain seasons, advertising's aggressiveness increases in geometric progression. Christmas time's over, but it's vacation time, and when you go...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U15	Good waitress, I'm sorry! I'll take a minute's break from the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U16	Dear colleagues, the chairman's break is over. Dear waitress, once again I apologize and let's move on! Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U17	Thank you, President-in-Office. I repeat: during certain seasons, the aggressiveness of advertising increases in geometric progression, while Christmas is over, but there is a time for holidays ahead. If you go on a trip somewhere without taking consumer credit, it's like you don't belong to a happy group. We found it necessary to put an end to such aggressive advertising. The second objective relates to the content and form of advertising. We took as a basis the comments made by the European Commission and the requirements of the Consumer Credit Directive on the presentation of advertising information in a form that consumers can understand. It is clear that the consumer credit taker is the weaker party and it is very important that he is aware of all the conditions and obligations he assumes. In each advertisement, the following information must be summarised and clearly provided in the form of a representative example: interest rate (very important whether it is limited or free); maximum amount of credit or credit to be used; percentage of charge; in the case of a consumer credit agreement, the duration of the credit agreement; in the case of a consumer credit agreement having as its object the financing of the case, the provision of the service or other subject matter of the contract, the item or service in which the contract is incorporated and its price immediately at fees (net price) and, in the case of the applicable case, the amount of advance payment; in the case of a consumer's total amount payable and the amount of refunds. It must include a call for access to the terms and conditions of the financial service and, where appropriate, consultation of experts. In cases where it is necessary to conclude an ancillary contract, in particular an insurance contract, in order to obtain a credit or to obtain a credit, and the costs associated with an ancillary contract are not identifiable in advance, the obligation to enter into an ancillary contract shall be notified in a clear, concise and clearly distinct manner, together with the rate of charge. It is also important that advertising informing the willingness to grant consumer credit or to mediate such contracts may contain only the name of the creditor or credit intermediary, information on his working time, place of business, website address, employee name and contact details and the service provided. It has also been discussed and decided in the past that advertising must be responsible and balanced. Advertising must not give the impression that taking consumer credit is a risk-free and easy way of resolving financial problems, nor should it tend to drive consumers into reckless borrowing. Many examples point to the need to select a font and size to provide information that makes it noticeable, understandable and easily distinguishable with other information. It is understandable that the consumer credit sector is wider. We started in the area of advertising because a year ago our draft with a wider impact was rejected and the Commission limited itself to cosmetic improvements to advertising. But these cosmetic improvements did not improve much in this area. With our draft, we want to improve the role of advertising in a large area. Finally, during the previous year there were consultations on consumer credit. In the second half of February this year, proposals for an analysis of the high-speed credit market appeared. The website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can be consulted, which is a very interesting document, which in March gave the previous government the basis for discussing this acute issue. At the time, the Government of the Republic also discussed the total prohibition of instant credit ads. This position was much tougher than our bill. A little later, information was received that a whole package had to be developed. We came back to our proposal last year, and the liberal economy will not stop it. We found it very important to keep the topicality so that this issue, along with the exchange of the Government of the Republic, would not go away. I also thank the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs for their good questions and useful conversation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U18	Thank you, good waitress. I have a request to the group leader upstairs for a young man not to fall down. Maybe he can get away from the edge of the balcony. Thank you. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Is it known how many enforcement procedures are under way and what is the amount required to be recovered from the borrowers now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U20	If you look at the analysis and proposals of the high-speed credit market, this section is also included. According to data from December last year, 23275 fast-track loans are in the process and amount to EUR 65,9 million. However, for example, the requirements of the collection companies are not reflected in this analysis; they are accompanied by claims from over 65000 people. It's a very large number, and you can't miss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U21	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U22	Thank you. Good colleague! Quite a simple question: is there a ban on express credit advertising in other countries or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U23	This is again one of the proposals for an analysis of the high-speed credit market. There has been a very thorough analysis of the situation in European countries. But what I want to say is that our proposal is tougher than that of other European countries, because Estonia and other countries cannot be compared for two reasons. Firstly, they do not have such a large sector, it requires normative and perhaps ethical organisation, and that is what the countries are dealing with. For example, our northern neighbouring country, whom we set an example, imposed restrictions last year. Secondly, as the former Prime Minister and former Minister of Economic Affairs said in an interview after the meeting of the Government of the Republic, this is not just an economic problem, a credit problem or a legal problem, but a major social problem. It is necessary to protect a very large number of people in our society. As I said in reply to the previous question, this is a very big step, and I fully agree with what the previous Prime Minister and Minister for Economic Affairs said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U24	Urbo Vaarmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, How many fast-lending companies are there in Estonia and how much is their market? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U26	This study of the rapid credit market analysis and proposals shows that there are 123 companies on the Estonian market offering consumer credit loans, the so-called fast credit. It is also very interesting to have further information that, for example, four companies have not submitted any reports since 2010, 23 companies have not submitted a report throughout the previous year, and ten other companies are indebted to the report. Thus, companies operating in this sector have major problems with the obligations facing the state. Speaking of their turnover, it is quite large, nearly 720 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U28	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Can you tell me how much the collection companies or the court are demanding right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U29	According to data from last year, speaking of December again, there were nearly 23000 people involved in the recovery of the debts of fast-track loans and the amount to be recovered was nearly EUR 70 million. But it needs to be clarified because this example does not contain the claims of the collection companies and with them there are already more than 65000 claims, that is a very large number.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U30	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! Please describe whether the members of the Commission were more opposed to banning the advertising of fast loans in the public media or were they neutral?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U32	I can point out that a year ago, when we discussed this restriction or, rather, the ban, some members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were opposed. Their main argument was that such a ban would run counter to the principles of the liberal economy. But this week, when we discussed it in the Committee on Economic Affairs, almost no one said that our proposal was wrong or that it was not timely, so I really have reason to thank the Members of the Commission for a good conversation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U33	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U34	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Apart from the last question, I'm just puzzled by all the previous ones. Doesn't the author know what he's been proposing that some kind of ping-pong is going on? They ask how many is one, another or third thing, and you can immediately name very precise figures. The initiator of the bill, I understand, was the whole Central Party. But that's it. I want to ask you one more specific question. The website of the consumer credit service provider has the possibility to publish its own advertising. You listed places where it is even possible to publish advertising, and one of these three is a website. Aren't you afraid that if advertising is completely banned, it might happen that big ads will appear with the text, for example, "Look at yourraha.ee, you won't regret!" or "Look at the kredit24.ee and all the roads are open to you!'. Since money still requires output, there will be adverts that guide the websites of the respective companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U35	I mean, about how it is, let's say, philologically correct to formulate advertising, is a good example of Finland. They wrote down sentences that could not be used in advertising, and there were a number of them. It was decided that such sentences or wording should not be used because it does not protect the consumer credit taker but creates an ambiguous understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U36	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This law will certainly have an impact on the credit market and on the entry of new entrants. It is known that Tallinn will be a municipal bank. People turn to these high-speed credit companies because they are in a socially very difficult, even economically inaccessible situation. You have analysed this situation and you have an overview. Would the municipal bank of Tallinn have a reason, or is it even planned to start offering social-oriented fast loans to people in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U38	On the municipal bank in Tallinn, I am currently indebted to the answer because I am not involved in this debate. However, on the social issue that we discussed a year ago, I, as I said in reply to Sven Sester, now have a quick-loan analysis in which these figures are written. It also mentions that Estonia has a very big social problem. In fact, you can see that if somebody's already taking a quick loan, they won't come out of this circle again. There's gotta be some way to narrow it down. And it is not just a question of a responsible creditor who complies with the terms of the contract and the legal requirements, but the subject is much wider. As you are well aware, the so-called SMS credit or loan can be taken very easily by telephone. We already have young people, gymnastics, and there are quite a few borrowers. A lot of people don't even have any income. However, the creditor should take into account the income of the borrower, whether it is able to repay the credit and the related costs at all. Larger banks always set a certain level of subsistence in the loan agreement, i.e. the amount that must remain for the person after the loan has been repaid, and this is still a guarantee that he will not be made quite naked.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U39	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U40	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, It is clear that there are many problems with fast-track loans, and it is essential to standardise this area. However, the proposed draft law and its explanatory memorandum are not consistent. In particular, the explanatory memorandum has extended to a large extent those places where advertising is permitted and there are other contradictions, as was clear from the discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs. How do you justify this, and do you see a problem in this draft procedure in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U41	I wouldn't say there's a contradiction here. Indeed, we have been talking about the location, but on the other hand there is a place of business, we also talked about this in the Commission. This comment was also made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in its letter. We really did not use the term "place of business" in our draft, but we know very well that all these companies can operate not only where they have their legal address, but also somewhere else, in the site. We left this issue open to discuss it with the Commission. We are open to debate in order to find the right and better form of the draft procedure with our colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U42	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good Eldar! The Government of the Republic has been talking about some sort of package governing the provision of quick loans. Was this package presented in the Commission, and what exactly is its content?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U44	Indeed, some time ago, I will specify, during the previous Government of the Republic, we learned that such a package was to be drawn up. And, as I mentioned in my speech, we came back to this about a year ago and drafted a broader draft. And when we also asked the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications during the Commission's debate, it was said that the preparations were under way, but they did not know when this package could reach us. It has been said that maybe in May the package will be ready, but then there will be a coordination round, which may take nearly three months. Thus, it is only in the autumn that we should talk about its appearance or its arrival in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. We were really afraid that it would take too much time, that it might even go to next year, and that perhaps the future Riigikogu would remain to discuss at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U45	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U46	Thank you, dear waitress. That's what I wanted to talk about. Under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, the document "Programme for promoting the financial literacy of Estonian residents for the years 2013 to 2020" in the Chamber of the Riigikogu will probably also be completed and will be available in May, which will develop general financial literacy. It already sounded in this hall that people were taking fast loans when they got into social difficulties without wondering if they could repay that loan or not. That's how you take a quick loan and get in trouble. Do you think we should go further on the subject of financial literacy? Should the Estonian state pay more attention so that our children can already be taught how to control their finances in school so that it is easier for them to participate in financial matters in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U47	According to statistics from a year ago, a relatively large number of fast-borrowers are children, basically only schoolchildren. This shows that the problem is quite large in Estonia. I don't know how, but it would really be helpful to at least introduce this subject to you in high school. It is important to teach people to do the right thing in this area so that there is no problem, not only for children, but also for their parents and perhaps more broadly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U48	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U49	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, A little while ago, the idea came up in this hall that the solution to social problems was fast-lending companies. It deserves, in my opinion, the title of the year's thought, because it is such a unique observation. I wonder if your understanding fits the idea that social problems can be solved with the money you borrow dearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U50	We touched on that question a little bit too. Of course, that does not really solve the problems. If a person with a low income takes a consumer loan, for example, and the consumer credit provider does not find out what his or her economic situation and actual income are, then he or she will have the future of a permanenced loan. It refinances another loan from one loan and does not manage because its income does not allow it to be extinguished. Then he can't handle other expenses, and so he's a hostage to this situation. In this way, everything he has can be lost in his home and in his family. This is really a major social tragedy. Once again, I fully agree with what Mr Ansip and the Minister for Economic Affairs said in March: this is a very big social problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U51	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We're talking about a loan ad. But do you think that fast-track credit, as it is now on the market, should it be maintained at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U53	In the way it is in Estonia, I don't think it should. But in some more limited way, he might be. Quite 100% of economic activity in this area cannot be banned. Under the conditions of the market economy, any activity permitted by law may persist.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U54	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U55	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the transmission of the draft bill for the amendment of the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party's political group to the first reading on Tuesday 8 April 2014. Eldar Efendiev, representative of the initiator of the draft, Anne Laar, Head of the Trade Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Doris Teiv, chief specialist, were invited to the meeting of the committee, who presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft and answered further questions. Eldar Efendijev, the initiator of the draft act, gave an overview of the objectives of the draft act and mentioned that he mainly agreed with the comments made in the opinion of the Government of the Republic and believed that the necessary clarifications and improvements could be made to the text of the draft act during the procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented the views expressed in the opinion of the Government of the Republic. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications stated that the subject was important. The problems are not only about advertising, but also about interest rates on consumer credit, for example. These issues should therefore be discussed further. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, Justice, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a package of measures will be prepared to deal with the problems encountered in the credit market, including proposals on consumer credit advertising. It is unreasonable to supplement the draft under consideration with amendments, as this would mean replacing the draft text with a new one. It is therefore reasonable to solve the problem within the framework of the package under preparation by the government. The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, which was a consensual decision. The Economic Commission decided to propose to reject the draft on the basis of the position initiated by Juhan Parts, member of the Government of the Republic. If the first reading is closed at the plenary session, the deadline for amendments shall be set at 30 April. 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U56	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U57	Thank you. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U58	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said in your speech that it was unwise to improve with the amendments to the bill, something like that. So what's it gonna be, and what's the rule right? If, for example, a law regulating land tax is adopted, it is as if it can be amended afterwards, I think it has been amended for the third time in a row. How, then, that in one case the law can be passed and subsequently amended, in the other case it cannot be passed. Please tell me what it depends on!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U60	I am here as a rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs, the debate concerns draft 592, and your question does not in any way concern the substance of this draft. The Economic Commission supported the position of the Government of the Republic by 7 votes in favour and 3 against, according to which the draft is being prepared as a whole in cooperation with the four ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U61	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U62	I fully agree with you that there are problems in this area, but the Committee on Economic Affairs, whose rapporteur I am now, has decided by 7 votes in favour and 3 votes against to support the view of the Government of the Republic that the draft will reach the Riigikogu as a whole in autumn 2014. This draft, which we are currently discussing, does not solve all the problems that are currently facing in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U63	Thank you, Honourable Asker. If I try to recall earlier discussions of Riigikogu committees on this subject, a former member of the Riigikogu and current Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas have dealt with this subject before, since 2007. In fact, the Consumer Protection Board should supervise those high-speed credit companies that do not comply with the law. The Consumer Protection Board has argued that they are dealing with this, but their capacity is not sufficient to manage such companies. And when you ask whether this issue was discussed in the Commission this time too, the same question was asked whether the Consumer Protection Board had sufficient capacity to supervise companies that either comply or do not comply with the law. The answer was yes. However, my personal view is that supervision could be better and all companies must comply with the laws currently in force in the Republic of Estonia. Advertising should also be monitored in particular by the Consumer Protection Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U64	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I would like to remind you again that a year ago, we tabled a draft that offered a solution to this whole area. It also included advertising. At the time, the Riigikogu and the relevant committee were limited to the advertising part of the draft. They said there's no problem anywhere else, it's just a matter of advertising. A year has passed and we want to improve this area, because the improvements that were adopted a year ago still do not work. Now you are talking about a wider area and you find that you do not just have to do advertising. You know very well that there has been almost an analogous proposal in the analysis, as we have done. Really, I agree with Sester. Why should the Commission not base itself on our draft? From now on, we could discuss and be prepared for a government proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U66	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I can only represent the Commission's position, and I have already highlighted our vote result at 7: 3. Times and circumstances change. While the problem was only about advertising a year ago, the issue of consumer credit and interest rates is now also relevant. So let's solve this whole thing, like I said before. I hope it is possible to arrange for the draft to arrive at the Riigikogu earlier than in the autumn of this year and together we will find a quick solution to the problem here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U67	Andrus Ansip, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U68	Thank you, Mr President. While the Government of the Republic discussed the issue of fast loans, advertising was more radical than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Rather, the government took the view that the advertising of fast loans should be completely banned. But let's take a broader look. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, presented a proposal to amend the integrated law to the meeting of the Government. In my opinion, the lion's part of the preparation of the new law had already been completed by then. Would it be possible to speed up the process of submitting this law to the Riigikogu? I don't see any reason to wait till autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U69	Thank you. I agree with the final part of your question. Indeed, this bill could be accelerated to reach the Riigikogu. And as I may have answered Sven Sester's question before, as soon as I leave this remote control, I will call Minister Urve Palo and ask for this draft to be speeded up before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U70	Thank you. There's a vote before. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U71	Thank you! It was lovely to hear you call the minister and then he'll be working. I'd say it sounded kind of brezhnevic, but that's that. In fact, I am asking why, within the ten-day period laid down, it is still not possible to correct the shortcomings that have been referred to here and to go back to the very same draft, all the more so as the preliminary work has already been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U72	I have already said several times that I am passing on the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs here, namely that a comprehensive draft is expected from the Government of the Republic and that the problem is resolved in a complex way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U73	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague Palling! When we discussed the proposal to ban or restrict alcohol advertising, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said from the very remote point where you stand now that alcohol advertising cannot be banned, because it would harass Estonian entrepreneurs and restrict economic freedom. After all, it is very important for Estonia that the economy develops. Can a parallel be drawn between these two things? Do fast lenders also promote the Estonian economy? Are you in the same position as a representative of a party for the interests of entrepreneurs? Do you have the same goals and plans? Have you discussed them? How does your party feel about fast lenders?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U75	I have to get involved here as a manager. We must, however, remain within the limits of the debate on the commission. But, of course, if the respondent wants to, he can answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U76	I can't comment and I can't take responsibility for Jürgen Ligi's words, which he said, besides introducing a different bill. I don't think it's appropriate to compare alcohol ads and instant credit ads. If so, only in the sense that no product can be advertised irresponsibly. Your party has also found that fast-borrowing companies are making advertising irresponsibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U77	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Marika Tuus-Lauli, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U78	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that fast-track lending is too free in Estonia and we have the most liberal European legislation governing the operation of instant credit offices. Why is that? I guess it's because the loan business that brings us us us us us usury and debt slavery is considered to be a completely honest business, and the freedom to conduct a business is like a sacred cow. It is as if this problem has been contained, indeed dozens of sessions have been held, but the result is still just a few minor improvements that are simply overlooked by those who run the fast-borrowing business. When the European Commission opened a formal infringement procedure against Estonia, because Estonia has more relaxed requirements for advertising consumer credit than the European directive requires, some improvements were made. Nevertheless, the situation on the credit market is either former or even worse. The number of people who have borrowed themselves in difficulties is increasing and the unregulated credit market is expanding by around 30% a year. According to the Ministry, about 140000 people, or one in ten, have taken out a quick loan, including children and deer. According to banks, the number of borrowers is even 180000. There are about 50,000 people in difficulties, they already have a bailiff at their door and they're implementing forced execution. The courts will protect us more fast-borrowing companies than debtors. If you think people have borrowed themselves from a lot of fun and a lot of play or anything, oh, no, that's not the case. The quick loan forces us to take the word "poverty" that our right-wing parties do not want to recognise, as there is no poverty in Estonia. The unemployed also take out loans of this kind. One debt chases the other, so a new loan is taken and kept in debt slavery. However, in the case of debt, interest and other charges are already applicable. For example, a EUR 200 loan could become a debt of EUR 2000 or more. The Centre Party Group has brought a number of new drafts to this Chamber and proposed amendments to the existing laws to ban outdoor, television and radio advertising for financial services and to follow the principle of responsible lending at all. All our proposals have been voted out of the procedure. We have worked with the Social Democrats and Mr Anvelt in the Committee on Legal Affairs on these matters. I say, what's happened now? Why don't we finish these things together? Today it was said that the Ministry was planning to come out with some draft in the autumn, or rather, the whole package of measures. Why don't we combine these drafts? We can wait, that's why there are three readings so we can supplement these drafts, that's perfectly normal. However, as the previous speaker said, this matter has been being dealt with since 2007 and I do not think that this autumn will help. Let's get started, let's do something! We show the people that cooperation between the opposition and the coalition with common starting points is possible in the Estonian parliament. You know what they're throwing at us all over the place: why are you fighting and tearing up Toompea, you better do something together! We could, I call on you to change this policy that has already become the norm. We're gonna do these things together and we're gonna stop this tank, the principles that are starting to transfer from fathers to sons. I call on you to vote in favour of this bill, to put a limit on outdoor, television and radio advertising for fast credit, just as we did for the promotion of casinos and tobacco products together. Of course, the principle of responsible lending, which is also mentioned in our draft, must also be taken into account. I would add another example that Finland has legalised the concept of usury. There is no such term in the Estonian legal space. In many European countries, usury is a crime and is punishable by criminal penalties. Finally, I call on you not to support crooks who take advantage of us in thousands of percent! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats attach great importance to solving the problems encountered in the credit market in order to prevent people, including young people, from experiencing tax difficulties. One solution is certainly to change the rules on consumer credit advertising. However, it must be said that the draft proposed and its explanatory memorandum are not consistent, so it does not make sense what is being properly regulated in this draft. According to the explanatory memorandum, the draft bans outdoor, television and radio advertising for financial services, while the text itself concerns the ban on consumer credit advertising. In addition, the objective of banning so-called fast-track advertising can be considered in the draft explanatory memorandum. The various wordings give rise to legal ambiguity, as there is no understanding of what advertising is actually intended to prohibit. It is also not possible, according to the draft and its explanatory memorandum, to understand clearly what it is intended to exclude advertising from the ban. The proposal mentions the location of the consumer credit service provider, the location of the consumer credit intermediary and the website of the consumer credit service provider. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum states that the ban on advertising does not apply in the credit office or the location of the intermediary, on board water or aircraft used for international passenger transport, in the airport serving international regular passenger transport or in the passenger terminal of the port or on the lender's or retailer's website. So I dare say that the explanatory memorandum has extended to a large extent those places where advertising is permitted. In many respects, the representative of the initiator agreed with these contradictions in the Commission. Representatives of the Ministry at the meeting of the Economic Commission stated that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, Justice and Social Affairs, is developing a package of laws to deal with the problems encountered in the credit market. This package also includes proposals for consumer credit advertising. I haven't read a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that they're gonna let this bill come out in the fall. I am sure that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will do everything to get before the Riigikogu this spring. In view of the above, the Group of the Social Democratic Party cannot support the draft in this wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U80	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Sven Sesteri! Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U81	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I was invited here by a remote socialist talk from the previous speaker. As I am a representative of the IRL Group, I will try to convey the thoughts that have been discussed in our group. On behalf of the good Social Democrats, the previous speaker has spoken! Your reasons for not saying that today seemed pretty sucked out of the pen. To be honest, it seemed uncomfortable for you yourself to read them mechanically on this paper and to make us heard. I think that the subject we are talking about today is a cross-policy issue. It doesn't matter who initiated this bill. I would like to mention here, for example, the similar decision taken by the Social Democrats to propose to the Government of the Republic in the same area, i.e. the percentage rate of charge. At one point you handed this over to the Riigikogu and took it back a few weeks ago. I suppose that's why you're going to the government in between. Now this bill would have proved incorrect from your point of view. Once again, this is a cross-political issue. If a representative of the Commission said such a reply that this is a partial solution, then yes, it is, I agree. I also agree that the Centre Party's draft should not become a law in this wording. I think that changes should be made. But no changes can be made until this draft is in the process. However, throwing out the draft only because it contains technical inaccuracies is not correct in my opinion. That certainly can't be the only reason. I would point out that last autumn, in October in particular, the Committee on Monetary Affairs convened a joint meeting of the four committees, being itself the lead committee. Four ministries were also invited to this table: Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Social Affairs and Ministry of Justice. In addition to ministries, representatives of the Consumer Protection Board, the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank were invited to participate in such organisations, which are more or less related to consumer credit issues, especially in advertising, interest, debt protection, etc. Then, last October, the first serious signal was given that this issue must be addressed. After the four joint meetings of the Commission in October, we clearly signalled that the Committee on Monetary Affairs would like to see what was happening in a few or three months' time. After all, this is a specific situation in this sense, where different draft laws fall on different ministries. The next meeting was at the beginning of the year. At that time we knew that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had taken on a competent role in managing the work of the ministries by order of the government. At the time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications gave us an overview of what has been done in three months. The last meeting was only a few weeks ago in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This time we have already been briefed on the final material for the cabinet session, or the government of the Republic. And the advertising law is one of those topics that has been approved in this memorandum under the current Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or, let's say, found attention. I will give you an example of consumer ads and give you information on what the situation is now. At the end of 2013, the Consumer Protection Board reviewed 112 consumer credit related advertising. Do you know which part of the 112 advertising was against some laws? How many ads did the Consumer Protection Board make a note? That's 70! In the case of 70 out of 112 advertisements, the Consumer Protection Board made a comment. This shows that everything in this market is completely abnormal, illogical, clearly illegal. This is the current reality. You have said several times in this Chamber today, both as a representative of the Commission and in answering previous questions: Mr Parts said that this should be a complex approach. I went down the hall once to talk to Juhan Parts. Since only one person from the party can come here to talk about the remote, he cannot express his opinion any more, but Juhan Parts said that this bill should definitely be moved forward now. A complex approach means that it is worth going forward with all the thoughts that MEPs have said about consumer credit and which are worth discussing. Now, from some of the proposals that are on the table of the Government of the Republic and which, according to my information, should at some point find support as draft laws. Our inter-ministerial working group came to the understanding that financial services, service providers, advertising of the place of service should be restricted and that word-designed additions should be omitted. Andrus Ansip said very clearly today that this working group brought a concrete proposal to ban television and radio advertising on the table of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we are now in a situation where all parties understand the importance of this issue, I do not think it is worth giving society the impression that we will ever look at it in the future, maybe there will be a complex debate. We will leave this bill in, we will discuss it next week and next month. I think that although there are really shortcomings in the Centre Party draft, the debate on this draft will give the opportunity to move forward with the government bill that will come in the autumn. Then we can see if we reconcile these drafts or choose one of them. So, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we take into account what you have said today on the subject is topical, that is what we should be dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to deal with this draft and to remedy the shortcomings and we hope that this will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U82	Thank you. Good waitress! In fact, there have been years of action on this issue and dozens of people have been in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and nothing has gotten better, only worse. Why do we not want to deal seriously with this once? And this package of measures, which is now being proposed, is yet another guide that has been and has not worked before. Why can't we just let this bill pass right now? After all, we can combine them, work together and show that we are able to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U83	Thank you. No more calls. I'll close the negotiations. The position of the lead committee is to reject draft 592 at first reading. Let us begin preparations for this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 34 against, with no abstentions. Draft law 592 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Third item closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.34 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kalle! I am convinced that the current high-speed credit market is poorly regulated in Estonia. Fast-track loans, yes, in certain cases help to solve people's problems, but today fast-track loans are more of a social problem for the country. Therefore, while I was Prime Minister, the Government of the Republic was of the opinion that a completely new regulation should be developed in order for the positive to dominate over the negative. What is the position of the Economic Commission on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U85	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Both the Committee on Economic Affairs and my personal position are that the problem must be resolved in a holistic way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U86	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U87	Thank you. Everyone says the problem is, and the problem is big, but I'm still going to ask you more specifically. When you said that by autumn 2014, the government was planning to draw up a comprehensive package and the Commission considered it a more sensible solution, was this a specific government commitment in autumn 2014 or a Commission request? How's that fixed? When can we expect its entry into force and changes in this area at all? We all see that the problem is, but somehow, the time for the changes to come into force is ugly.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U88	Thank you. This date was sent by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, together with his position. As you well know as a member of the Riigikogu, after the Government of the Republic submits the draft to the Riigikogu, three readings have to be passed and the various parties must be communicated between them. I believe that if we can start reading in the autumn, for example in September, we will be able to adopt the law before the end of the year and enforce it in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U89	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You didn't want to answer my first question, but maybe you'll find a way to answer the second question. A few minutes ago, when you answered Mr Marika's question, there was this sentence: this draft does not solve all the problems, so it does not make sense to deal with it. Please mention a couple of legislative proposals in the economic field that have solved all the problems. If you cannot name one of these, how do you choose the ones for which this principle works? One case does not solve all the problems, but we are still discussing it, the other one does not solve all the problems, and that is the reason not to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U91	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I replied to the questioner Marika Tuus-Laul that the problems exist not only in the area of advertising, which this bill is trying to solve, but also in the area of consumer credit and interest rates, for example. So it is not a question of giving any examples that would solve the whole situation, but of a specific draft, which I am a rapporteur for as a representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We decided to build on the position of the Government of the Republic and take into account their promise that the whole package, which will solve the issue of advertising, consumer credit and interest rates, will reach the Riigikogu by the autumn of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U92	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kalle! I, too, think that the subject we are discussing today is topical in society, not only in recent days, but actually for quite a long time. It is good that, from the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this subject to the decisions already taken or draft laws, things have started to move. I understand that you are quite uncomfortable right now, because as a representative of the Commission, you need to speak about the Commission's positions. But there's one thing I don't understand a little bit. You're talking about a complex solution and a general review. Do we not give society the wrong signal if we say no, let us not deal with this bill today? Rather, I have the feeling that we could conclude the first reading with this draft and then continue to see if we can ever reconcile them and then proceed with one or the other. Why is it not wanted to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U94	Thank you. Good Sven, first of all, I congratulate your long-term work as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and thank you for bringing this debate to the Riigikogu and for dealing with it. Indeed, as I said in reply to Mr Kiisler's question, I can rely on the position signed by Juhan Parts, which states that the draft will reach the Riigikogu in the autumn. I promise that as a member of the Economic Commission and rapporteur for this draft, I will contact Minister Urve Palo as soon as possible and try to find an opportunity to bring a comprehensive draft before the Riigikogu even earlier. I think this is a major problem in society that needs to be addressed. At the same time, I believe that it is not worth offering incomplete solutions in the interests of legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U95	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-04-17_U96	Thank you. Dear colleague, Our colleague, Eldar Efendiev, said that dozens and dozens of companies do not comply with national laws, do not produce papers about their work, etc. I mean, most of those who do short-term commercials and even short-term loans are in debt to the state. And here is my question: has the situation of such companies been discussed in the Commission? Why does the state not react in such a way that Estonian laws are actually enforced?
