ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 29 members of the Riigikogu stated that they were present, and no 72 members were present. Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski and Minister of Culture Urve Tiidus will participate in the Question Hour. Last day, seven members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions in Question Time, and Urmas Reinsalu later gave it up. So we have six questions and, as President, I promise to ask two additional questions from the registering questioner's room.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U2	The first question is from the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tammelt to the Minister of Education and Science Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Education and Science, In today's session, it will probably be the law that gymnasium children will have a warm school lunch free of charge from next year. Unfortunately, the amount written in the bill is only 78 cents per school day. Do you think it's possible to feed a high school kid full of stomachs? Why did the government not find the extra money to be at least one euro, as our proposal was?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U4	Honourable questioner! Indeed, the government is taking serious steps to reduce child poverty and, together with the multiplication of child support from next year, the circle of beneficiaries of school lunch grant will hopefully be expanded by the decision of the Riigikogu today. While it has so far included primary school pupils and secondary vocational education students, from next year the state will also pay the school lunch grant to upper secondary school students. I must correct you: this law does not fix the calculated amount of school lunch allowance. This is determined by another law, which is today at first reading, which is the State Budget Act. However, when it comes to this amount, which is indeed 78 cents, it should be taken into account that the state grants support to local authorities to enable school lunches. This amount has never been intended to cover all costs; it is a grant to local authorities. I must say that many municipalities are already providing free school food at their own expense to the gymnasts. This is certainly a very commendable initiative, and the allocation of school lunch grant to these municipalities means additional revenue to the budget for the following year. However, other municipalities that have not yet done so must contribute to this in some way from the resources of their budget in order to allow a high-quality school lunch. But I think that this is a sufficiently worthwhile objective, so that the state and local government can really offer free school lunch to gymnasts in cooperation next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U5	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U6	Thank you. Mr. Minister! This is certainly a worthwhile goal, and our party has already launched a draft of this at least twice during this term, so that the upper secondary school child can also have a warm school lunch free of charge. But here's a question. Minister, are you convinced that all the municipalities will be able to cover their share? This own contribution is not small. And, as far as I know, the local government associations have not coordinated this bill either. The State unilaterally imposes an obligation on local authorities, for which it does not provide for a financial cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U7	Thank you. The state does not impose an obligation on the municipality, but it starts to allocate school lunch grant to the local government budget so that it is possible to offer a school lunch. Indeed, it is the decision of the local community how to use its own budget. In my opinion, it would certainly be positive if the local government found these resources to add its own money to the state's school lunch allowance so that children could eat free of charge, including upper secondary school students. However, if it is found that this is not feasible at local level, it is possible, in principle, that the local government will continue to charge extra money to upper secondary school students. This is, in principle, a possible scenario, so we do not impose an obligation on the local authority in this respect. But I would like to emphasise once again: I very much hope that at the local level, we will be able to find these amounts, by recognising the priority of this step. As far as negotiations with local authorities are concerned, the local government associations have indeed wished to increase this support. This particular amount, which they provided, certainly does not reflect the real school lunch costs of all municipalities. In some places they're bigger, in some places they're smaller. Basically, I do not mind that, in the run, school lunch support could be more decent, but in this year's budget negotiations, we have found an additional EUR 3 million for the next year in order to expand the range of school lunch recipients. If it succeeds in increasing this estimated amount in the future, it will, of course, be very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U8	Tarmo Tamm, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U9	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The general message is, in fact, that upper secondary school children will have a free school lunch next year. At the same time, part of the new year's families may find it a surprise that half the school allowance is being charged to them, as it can actually cost upper secondary school children about 1.3 euros per day. If the municipality does not find any extra money, the parents will have to pay for the part themselves. So maybe talking about gymnasium kids having a free school lunch isn't right. But it is true that the step is in the right direction and that all schoolchildren should have free school lunch. So the Central Party Group will certainly support even this 78-cent school lunch grant. However, I think that during the budgetary procedure, the Minister could propose to his party associates that this support be at least EUR 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U10	As I said, decisions at local level are decisions at local level, and there is no way that the government can interfere with them. Just as the decisions of the Riigikogu are the decisions of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic cannot interfere with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U11	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I've been curious for a long time about how that sum was born, 78 cents. Have nutritionists somehow put together some kind of ration, taking into account the proportion of food needed, vitamins, micro-nutrients, calories, or have they just found some kind of accountant somewhere and divided it by the number of children? How did this happen? And if Estonia has indeed discovered a 78-cent formula for healthy eating, it should be introduced to the world as an outstanding Estonian invention. Why does the rest of the world waste resources while half of Africa is starving?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U13	I must emphasise once again that this is the estimated cost of a school lunch in the context of the payment of public support. It was never intended to cover all the costs of offering a school lunch. At the beginning, when this support was introduced, it was intended to compensate food costs. We cannot actually say how much a school lunch costs in each particular place, because the way lunch is offered in local governments is very different. It is one thing to offer it in the city of Tallinn and another to offer it in a smaller area, for example, in Võrumaa. Food prices vary and wages vary. There are different systems: either lunch is done on the spot or the service is bought in, it is either done centrally for several schools or it is prepared according to the old model, so there are cook aunts at the school on the spot. The models are very different and therefore the cost varies. The way the school lunch offer is arranged is the decision of the local government, which is the schoolkeeper. As a result, it is perfectly understandable that the local government adds the amount necessary to cover the cost of lunch in a particular school to the national estimated school lunch allowance.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U14	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U15	Thank you. Dear Minister, We can talk about the cost of school meals and the amount of this support, but in fact, a very necessary step has been taken. Upper secondary school students also receive free school meals in a large number of municipalities today; municipalities pay for it. Now they are releasing resources, and they can support this effort by paying extra money. It is also known that the Social Democrats have agreed to increase the amount of school food allowance. But a lot of people have started to say that upper secondary school students want to make this support needs-based. How do you feel about that? Is there any basis for this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U16	As regards the increase in this estimated support, as I said, I certainly have nothing against it in principle. It is a question of the possibilities of the state budget. If the Riigikogu manages to agree on the budgeting of the next few years and find the necessary sources of cover, it is reasonable for God's sake. However, as regards the need-based school lunch grant, since this is basically about support for local authorities, I find it quite difficult to establish accounting needs-based support for local authorities. The extent to which the local authority decides to allocate a resource is their decision. At the same time, I cannot imagine in itself how a system could have a positive effect if there are children at school who can eat free of charge and children who cannot. What would it look like in practice? That somehow it's like watching some kids belong to one group and others to another group? I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U17	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U18	The next question is Prime Minister Taavi to Clothes. The question is asked by Jaak Aaviksoo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U19	Prime Minister, I will put this question to you as Chairman of the Scientific and Development Council. To begin with, the Republic of Estonia has continuously increased its funding for R &amp; D, including from the state budget. In the last ten years, there has been no year in which not only the total amount of funding has increased, but also the share of R &amp; D in relation to the sum of total economic output. However, the state budget that reached the Riigikogu now envisages at least a 9 million reduction in funding in the Ministry of Education and Research. My first question: why did the government give up the aim of raising research funding to 1% of GDP when preparing the budget, and what is the rate of this funding in the draft budget you submitted?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U20	Thank you for that question. First of all, if you want to see a comprehensive picture of 2015 funding, it is certainly practical to look at both the re-allocation of the 2014 budget, with which additional funds have been allocated to several R &amp; D areas, and the 2015 budget. When you look at them together, you see the whole picture. We can take different aspects of research funding from line to line, such as basic funding. It will increase by EUR 1 million or at least slightly above EUR 800000 next year, an increase of around 10%. We will take personal research grants or institutional research grants, they will certainly not decrease. The additional source of funding is, of course, the Structural Funds, where, of course, the final amount of funding depends very much on how quickly concrete actions are implemented. We know that the government is in the final stages of negotiations with the European Union or, more specifically, with the European Commission, so that we can mobilise structural funds as soon as possible. I'm optimistic enough about that. I believe that we will be able to adopt a number of measures this year, which means that next year it will also be possible to start using the Structural Funds for the next period to finance science. That amount, as you well know, will be around 300 million in the next seven years. That is how much money we get from the Structural Funds for R &amp; D, and much more of it than so far goes to specific activities and one can say, to individual people. Very many very important investments have already been made in Estonian science and therefore the focus of the new programming period is on activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U21	Jaak Aaviksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U22	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You spoke a lot about the few small lines in the budget, but you didn't answer my question. The R &amp; D strategy adopted at the beginning of this year states very clearly that public expenditure on research will be 1% of GDP in 2015. At the same time, the Ministry of Education and Research has a reduction of 9 million budgets and a level of funding of 0.7% of GDP. How much has the government planned for 2015 spending rate, I mean as a percentage of GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U23	First of all, the funding of research development, although it has grown faster in Estonia than in any other European Union country, has not been at the level that we have planned in our own plans over the years. Especially when we are talking about public funding, even if the plans have had a target of 1% of GDP, we have not reached this point at all. As far as I am concerned, the Minister of Education and Research knows the details in much more detail, we will have this percentage guaranteed next year. But I believe that this is a question that you can put next time to the Minister for Education and Research. We can also submit percentage calculations to you in writing, so you will get the most accurate information. I have lived in the knowledge that with the redeployments of this year and with the additional allocations of next year, we will achieve the goals that we have set for ourselves. But the fact that there has been funding for R &amp; D in previous years, let's say, room for improvement, is not a secret either for you or for me. I think there will certainly be room for additional funding in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U24	Jaak Aaviksoo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U25	I understand that it may be reasonable to clarify the details and the specific figures in writing, but still. It is quite clear that 9 million less is quite a decline. Given that, according to current statistics, one job in the R &amp; D sector represents EUR 20000 per year, it can be argued that 9 million cuts represent a loss of around 450 jobs. The newly elected president of the Academy of Sciences has even spoken of thousands, but it is probably overexploited. 450 jobs are more or less one average university, i.e. researchers from Tallinn University or Estonian University of Life Sciences. Has the Scientific and Development Council discussed the priorities for these redundancies, whether by sector or by institution? Has such a political decision been taken, and if so, what is it like?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U26	I call on you, as I said, to look at the whole picture and not go with the intimidation. What you're saying is that next year the money will be 9 million less, certainly not true. This is not true simply because, as a result of the internal redeployment of the Ministry of Education and Research of this year's Ministry of Education and Research, the amounts granted for R &amp; D will be further increased to 2015. And if we take the main aspects of R &amp; D funding from the line, the co-financing, as I said, will increase from 8.4 million to 9.2 million. Personal research grants and institutional research grants amounting to approximately 38 million are essentially the same as in previous years. If we look at the national programme 'Estonian language and cultural memory', the allocation for this will increase. If we look at operating grants related to scientific collections, this amount will also increase in the budget for next year. Once again: I believe that the officials of the Ministry of Education and Research will help you find the right numbers in the budget, but right now you must be satisfied with my assurance that funding for R &amp; D will not decrease next year, as you have mistakenly read out of the budget, and in no way will it fall by EUR 9 million. Take on a new budget and also redeployments this year, then you will get a full picture and I will be happy to complement it in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U27	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U28	Prime Minister! Your answer did not convince me that there would be no reduction in funding for science in next year's budget. I am a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I am quite familiar with the state budget, and I, too, have realised that research funding is actually decreasing. I also have a more concrete example: the amount allocated to applied research in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture will decrease by as much as 40% next year. Hence my question: how is such a policy consistent with the ideology of a science-based economy? For years, we have wanted to build such an economy. Or have priorities changed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U29	How can I comment on this situation if you read out of the budget something that is not true, but yet you find a way to draw far-reaching conclusions from it and then ask for my comment? And when I say, look, you've misread that R &amp; D funding will not actually decrease next year, you're saying it's not convincing for you. If you are unconvincing, ask for a written answer. Write down where you see this decline, and the Ministry of Education and Research will answer you in writing, make clear in wood and red, and confirm what I say, based on the data of the Ministry of Education and Research and the budget. In fact, the R &amp; D figures will be higher next year than this year. And this year, as I have already said several times, we have planned, within the limits of the Ministry of Education and Research's budget, a readjustment that has increased the funding for R &amp; D. The Minister of Education and Science is here today, and I'm sure he will give you answers to a much more detailed question. He has advocated funding for R &amp; D at a number of cabinet meetings, as well as at the R &amp; D Council. That is how we have allocated extra money to this area after some very long debates. Don't see a ghost where there's no ghost. We will find out from the budget those places where there really is a reason to criticise, but if you look for a setback in funding R &amp; D, I think you are on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U31	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Urve Tiidus, the question is asked by Priit Toobal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U32	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. In May of this year, the National Audit Office published an audit in which it found that there have been years of confusion in financing theatres converted into a foundation, and the Ministry has failed to comply with the prescribed arrangements for how theatres should be financed. At the time, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture said that the funding principles really need to be modernised and these improvements will be made by 2015. We have 2015 at our door, and I am asking what corrections, what changes have the Ministry of Culture made in this regard. How will these theatres be financed in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U33	Thank you for your question, Mr Toobal. With the National Audit Office, we have very good cooperation and all the observations that are made on improving the funding of the Ministry of Culture's field of finance just can't be taken into account. Financing theatres specifically means that we look at the theatres one by one, how they have handled the state's money, i.e. how well, how wisely, how efficiently they have used it. We're in the middle of this process. Just for your information, public sector money currently supports theatres at an average rate of 60% in Estonia, 40% of the theatres need not have to, but are expected to earn their own income. That's the proportion we're monitoring. The total funding of theatres is EUR 24,334 million. The question may be whether this is low and whether this money is well used. It is also important to look at how many people still take advantage of the opportunity to go to the theatre in Estonia and enjoy this form of culture. The number of visitors to the theatre in Estonia is increasing. As I said at the outset when I answered your question, work to make funding for theatres smarter is always going on. The topic of funding theatres is dealt with by a special committee at the Ministry, consisting of professionals, including theatre experts, and, of course, representatives of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U34	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree with you that all the theatres should be approached personally, because each theatre has a role to play in our Estonian theatre landscape. But I stress once again that when the National Audit Office issued this audit this May, the Chancellor of your Ministry, who spoke on behalf of the Ministry, said that the principles of funding need to be changed, not that there is any need to communicate directly with the theatres. I totally agree! If the work is in progress, there is certainly some way in which the theatres will be funded in the new year. Today is October 22nd and 2015 is almost here. Today we process the state budget, where there is also support for theatres on the line of the Ministry of Culture. How will this money be distributed?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U36	Thank you for the second question, Mr Toobal. As I mentioned, at the beginning of each year, the theatres submit applications for operating grants to the Ministry of Culture. They are reviewed by a panel of experts that takes into account the various components of the theatre's activities: the number of theater's jobs, structure, the number of new productions planned, the number of performances and audiences. I have been asked whether the performances are, in essence, analysed whether this committee is in any way expressing its opinion on the creative activities of the theatre. As far as creative choices are concerned, the theatres are free, and this committee does not tell anyone whether or not to take up this or the other matter. This is purely the property of the theatre's leadership, creative council and creative leader. Now, the chancellor's promise to review the principles of funding theaters. I assure you that this is a continuous process for every public institution, still trying to ensure more reasonable funding. There's no rule cut in stone. Of course, Estonia has high expectations of increasing funding, and gradually, as the budget situation improves, efforts have been made to meet these expectations. I say that funding for theatres increased by 4.4% in 2013, by 5.5% this year. But there's nothing to do, life gets more expensive. We finance operating grants and they will grow slightly next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U37	Thank you. Priit Toobal, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm very respectful of Project Theatre paintings! ', which has helped to move professional theatre art to remote areas and at the same time allowed student groups to attend performances in county centres and other theatre houses. This year this project was funded with EUR 121250. Because I couldn't find a budget for a separate line 'Theatre for paintings! ' About the project, I ask how it is planned to finance this enterprise in 2015. Will this project continue? Is there any plan to allocate extra money to it or how it is planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U39	Thank you, Mr. Toobal. As you rightly pointed out, this is a very popular project. The budget lines, as we know, have not been written in detail, and this is a recurring question of whether this money is in the budget. Yes, it is. The Riigikogu is currently handling the budget. Now comes the first reading, and after the second reading, when it is more or less clear what the volumes will be and whether our proposals, which have passed through the government, will receive support, we will be able to rewrite this part in more detail. I am very much in favour of this project getting a little more money, as much as we can allocate within this budget. I hope that this amount will increase fairly in proportion to the total other budget. This is an important project. How are we gonna get a future audience if we don't get happy with the best theatre performances for children and young people and people living farther away?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U40	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U41	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Culture! Yesterday, the online media portals passed through as a wildfire title, which says that the Ministry of Culture is a major supporter of a particular musical. As far as I know, no government has ever intervened in designing the artistic aspects of the theatres. As you said in one response, it has always been the decision of creative leaders. Thus, the Minister of Culture never supports specific performances, supports both private theatres and state theatres. It's always been that way. Is it true that the Ministry of Culture has now started to support individual performances? The criticality of society has always been respected in our theatres, the theatres have been critical of both the government and the Minister of Culture themselves, which is a good characteristic of the whole society. Has anything changed in your politics, or has online media just messed things up?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U42	Thank you for that question, Mr Sooäär. I am a great admirer of editorial freedom and freedom of expression, and you are probably just as big. The press certainly cannot be blamed for having placed a different title. The Ministry of Culture does not support individual performances; the Ministry of Culture grants operating grants to theatres. He also grants annual operating grants to NO99. With regard to supporting individual productions, theatres have the free right to turn to cultural capital or apply for support under a programme. As far as I am concerned, this support has not been requested for the particular performance you are referring to. No additional funding has been received either from cultural capital or under any programme. That's the information I have right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U44	The next question is to Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas and is presented by Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking about the work capacity reform. Namely, last Wednesday, the Prime Minister, acting as acting Prime Minister, answered questions from Defence Minister Sven Mikser, who is also the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. He identified the work that had not been carried out by the previous government as the reason for the confrontation with regard to the labour capacity reform. In the previous government, you were the Minister of Social Affairs, and it is no secret that you have prepared a draft for the reform of working capacity. How do you comment on the clear accusation of the chairman and minister of the partner party in the Riigikogu Question Time that this great confrontation and omission is largely the responsibility of the previous government, including you personally as Minister of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U46	Thank you. I was not in Estonia at the time, but I listened to this briefing. I also listened to the way the honourable questioner, who was in the role of the questioner last week, tried, at all costs, to put in his mouth the message of accusing the previous government, who was the Minister of Defence in the role of Prime Minister. Failure by the respondent to reject each plea in law clearly does not necessarily mean that he accepts a particular plea. What is interesting about this is that the representative organisations of people with disabilities not only confirmed in the last months of the previous government, not only orally, but also in writing, that they support these drafts. There's another interesting fact. On March 12, we were at the Vikerradio studio with a respected questioner. This programme is catch-up, and I recommend that everyone listen especially to the part of the show where Margus Tsahkna, knowing that our cooperation in the government is coming to an end, said some of the words that he very much hopes that he will continue as Minister of Social Affairs, because he has done a very good job in preparing for the work capacity reform and the work capacity reform is an important thing that will take Estonia forward. Maybe he didn't quite put it this way that it would take Estonia forward; perhaps he expressed it a little differently, but in any case, Mr Tsahkna spoke about the reform of working capacity in a very positive way. I think he spoke about the right to work capacity reform is an undertaking of great importance to the people of Estonia with disabilities and I am amazed that Margus Tsahkna has now withdrawn from those positions at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U47	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! As the subject is very broad , I am asking about the media space in the Russian language for almost everything to be asked about. I have realised that in the course of his discussions, the Cabinet decided that another television channel in Russian would be needed in Estonia. In the 2015 budget, on the line of the Ministry of Culture, we do not see the resources for such a television channel. Is it planned to start this TV channel in 2016 or ever? At the same time, I understand that the government's proposal is for broadcasting to find the necessary amounts from its internal resources. Why don't you give me, as a member of the Broadcasting Council, advice on the amount of money we're supposed to be doing this? Should we close down a radio station or close down an existing television channel or reduce employees' salaries? What could you do that for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U49	Thank you. In the budget for next year, the government has already allocated, if I remember correctly, EUR 390000 to strengthen existing programmes in Russian channels. This is not about making a new channel, but about Radio 4, the Russian AK and the specific activities of the Russian ERR portal, a concrete strengthening that can be done from the beginning of the financial year. This amount has been allocated, this decision has been made. The decision to create or order a television channel in Russian I do not know how it would be legally correct to say that the government has not yet completed. And it can still be the national broadcasting that is independent. However, we have made a fundamental decision that this process must be taken forward. On 20 November, a meeting should take place in the Cabinet, where representatives of national broadcasting will give the government an overview of what this programme could be and what the budget should be. If the government accepts the creation of a channel in this form, it is also possible to make the relevant decisions and to foresee some amount in the budget. Purely because the final decision has not been taken, the final analyses have not yet been carried out, the budget has not yet foreseen money, but this can be dealt with when this content debate has taken place in the government, which is expected at the end of November.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U50	Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U51	Thank you. I'm coming back to work capacity reform. Indeed, I have expressed my support for the objectives of the labour capacity reform and I am expressing it now, just like all the organisations of disabled people who have collected 3500 signatures to stop the implementation of the draft employment capacity reform and to develop specific care services to help people with disabilities to get to work. We saw three adults helping a wheelchair upstairs at Stenbock's house this week. That is precisely what these three people are, figuratively speaking, a figurative example of what is missing. I was hoping that today's Prime Minister, as Minister of Social Affairs, would continue in the context of perhaps also developing welfare services, including care services for carers. Do you think it is possible that the work capacity reform is currently being stopped and the missing part that we have spoken to you about, for example, on the Kuku radio?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U52	I met representatives of petitioners. All of them, without exception, said that they would not be satisfied with the current situation and that, if the current situation continues, they would not be satisfied at all. In fact, then, they consider it very important that plans relating to the reform of working capacity are implemented. Their ambitions, however, are much greater. I agree that, in addition to the two drafts that we call draft labour capacity reform, one of which is Urmas Kruuse, the other is submitted by Helmen Hunt, other aspects must also be addressed. We need to deal, as you rightly said, with the services of the caretakers. I would point out that we are going to allocate tens of millions of euro of European Union money to the services of informal carers. If we get a green light from the European Commission, which allows us to start using European Union money, I believe that Estonia is among the first countries to get this green light, we can start launching this measure and creating these services. In addition, we have funds to adapt the homes of people with disabilities to their needs. I am thinking, above all, of people with a lack of mobility. Services for the care of children with disabilities are also intended to improve the employment of informal carers. Many of these services have been planned, and the money has been booked. I very much hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs will be able to develop these measures long before the work capacity reform is implemented, because these services are actually needed immediately. But just because these services are needed does not mean that there is no need for labour capacity reform at the same time. Both are needed, they are both important activities that help people.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U53	Margus Tsahkna, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U54	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'll go on from here. You are on the right track with your debate, but this whole thing is like opposite. All organisations of disabled people have also said that they are not opposed to the objectives of the employment capacity reform, but in practice it is impossible to achieve these objectives because there are no standards in place concerning the availability of care services throughout Estonia. As the country has enough money, it shows that the capacity to work reform is set at EUR 350 million. At the same time, however, these very disabled people have collected 3,500 signatures and are asking not to cancel the reform of their capacity to work, but precisely to establish the basis for social welfare services, including the 13,000 family carers who are now at home. As head of government and former Minister of Social Affairs, do you understand this concern? Do you realise that it is not worth pushing through the work capacity reform by force, but that this work must be done first?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U55	Once again, I met these people. As I said, they do not want the reform of working capacity to go away or the current situation to continue for many years. They clearly believe that a reform of working capacity is necessary. By the way, I would point out that it primarily deals with people who want to go to work but whose capacity for work has been reduced and who have so far had objective obstacles to doing so. Nobody disputes that providing these people with additional services, be they rehabilitation services, state compensation for employers' investments or a personal approach, would not help this particular target group whose capacity for work has been reduced and who is keen to go to work. This is the content of the work capacity reform. The parallel problem, which is also important, but which is not directly affected by the draft labour capacity reform, is the care that we are dealing with, rather, with European Union action. These are other measures, not those relating to these two drafts. This is another target group, people who care for their loved ones and want social services to be professionally cared for. The goal is that those who take care of themselves who may not have reduced their ability to work, who usually have 100% of their capacity to work, can go to work. So both issues concern people with disabilities, but they are completely different target groups for whom completely different solutions are needed. To say that we can't do one thing, if we don't do the other at the same time, isn't quite right. However, I can assure you that both must be done. They are not directly linked, but both must be done and it is not acceptable for anyone to continue with the current system.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U57	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the government's agricultural policy. I do not know if it exists in Estonia at all. As far as I know, Estonia is the only country in the European Union that is allowed to pay additional state subsidies, but who will not use this option this year or next year. For example, the Latvian State paid its farmers over EUR 40 million this year. The dairy sector should be one of the most promising sectors in Estonia with which we could be at the absolute top of the European Union. How should our farmers, if they are put in a completely unhealthy competitive situation, survive and be able to compete in the rest of the European Union market? Why does the government not support our own farmers?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U58	Thank you. First of all, my deep bow to Margus Tsahkna, who formulated his question in terms of 'Government Policy', giving me the opportunity to ask everything, from work capacity reform and the Russian television channel to support the dairy sector. But that's what Question Time is for you to ask everything you want to know from the Prime Minister. There is no reason to say that the government does not support a farmer in Estonia. It does, and very much supports, with the support of the European Union's instruments. I would remind you that the budget negotiations with the European Union were exceptionally successful for Estonia. The then Prime Minister, my predecessor, Andrus Ansip, fought out about 50 million extra euros in the last round, going to Estonian agriculture. To say that this money is less important than top-up or that the investment grant is not a grant, that there must be some kind of other-named support, I think it is not really appropriate. The dairy sector, as well as all other sectors, needs a wide range of support, such as investment grants and animal welfare contributions. These are the concrete amounts that we have in excess of EUR 1 billion. They all contribute to ensuring that the Estonian agricultural sector is competitive, that jobs in agriculture are kept and created. I visited the largest barn in Europe recently opened in Estonia. I think this is a very good example of how it is possible to increase productivity, increase profitability and be competitive throughout the region by making smart investments in the agricultural sector. You should also look at these examples, so you will be sure that Estonian farmers are doing their job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U60	The next question is also for Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, which is presented by Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U61	Mr Prime Minister! I listened carefully to your speech at the opening of Petroter II, but some questions remained on the agenda. The disproportionately steep and economically unwarranted increase in environmental charges planned by the State since 2016 calls into question the sustainability of the production of the entire oil shale sector and creates prerequisites for the closure of the company and the dismissal of employees in Ida-Virumaa. I have this first question for you: what and whose analyses of economic accounting have been used by the Ministry of the Environment as a basis for planning new increases in environmental charges in the oil shale sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U62	Before the opening of Petroter II, I had a very thorough discussion with the company's managers and owners in the Viru Chemistry Group. We also touched on the issue of environmental charges. It seems to me that the main interest of the Estonian oil shale sector is that changes in environmental charges should be known in advance for a long time, so that there is no certainty about policy that there is no risk that the fees may increase exponentially or unexpectedly during the year. After all, the investments that are being made in this sector are going to be made very long in advance, and the investments are very high. I therefore think that, in principle, the policy chosen by the government and implemented by the Ministry of the Environment is very right: the increase in environmental charges has been set for ten years. This is exactly what the sector itself wants. Now that we look at the past years, environmental charges also increased in 2009 and 2010. Growth has been 4% and 5%, but in three years in a row it has been 20%, so that it varies widely between years. The proposal currently on the table provides for an increase in fees of an average of 3 to 6% per year, which is the same as the increase in the overall cost of living. I certainly do not agree with the argument that this small part, which is the result of this increase in the final price of production, is about a promill, or 0.1%, making the oil shale industry uncompetitive. The main challenge for the oil shale industry is still the depreciation of oil prices and, unfortunately, this cannot be affected by Estonia's environmental charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U63	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U64	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! 2016 will soon come, and I believe that the Government and the Ministry of the Environment know that. I would like to stress that all oil shale sector companies, including Eesti Energia, Viru Keemia Grupp and Alexela, have expressed their common position to the Minister for the Environment that, in the current economic situation, where the price of oil barrel goes down a lot, environmental charges should be frozen at today's level. My question is this: why is one hundred percent of the views of oil shale companies not taken into account, including the position of Estonian Energy belonging to the state itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U65	I believe that the basis for success in deciding on the amount of environmental charges is the continuation of dialogue between the Ministry of the Environment and businesses. I do not think it a good tone when one party publishes big ads, which, let us be honest, we all understand, have little to do with reality, but which is intended to scare people, arguing that if the cost of producing one company increases by 0.1% per year, then, after 0.1%, tens of thousands of jobs will be lost. In my opinion, this intimidation is irresponsible and should not be done. I think that, as politicians, we both know how high environmental charges are, in fact, they still represent a very modest part of the final price of the product. For example, a ton of oil shale, I think, we all imagine the amount of one ton of oil shale is one-and-a-half euros in environmental charges. Obviously none of us thinks that this EUR one and a half is too much or that raising this euro-and-a-half rate, for example, would paralyse the company's activities. At the same time, I fully agree that the big problem for the Estonian oil shale industry is when the price of oil falls significantly, but here we cannot help the oil shale industry. But one way or another, we can help the oil shale industry. Today I am still going to Brussels to stand by the Council's climate negotiations to increase the competitiveness of the Estonian oil shale sector so that Estonian oil shale can produce diesel oil. I believe that this agreement can be reached in the European Council. Either way, I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U66	Valeri Korb, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U67	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! In terms of security, including energy security, the overall socio-economic situation of the Ida-Virumaa region is of great importance now and in the perspective. The oil shale industry is the main employer in the region, and what to talk about there, especially for the Russian-speaking population. If the sector develops and is viable, there will be local jobs and people will be motivated. In this respect, I wonder whether anyone has analysed the possible socio-economic and political consequences in Ida-Virumaa, if the Estonian Energia and Viru Chemistry Group should be forced to close their mines and the oil industry, even partially, by 30% or 50%, due to the increase in environmental charges. And I would like to proceed if possible: has anyone been in contact with the trade unions of miners and chemical workers? Have they been asked for their position on the development of the oil shale industry and their taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U68	Environmental charges represent a relatively modest share of the cost of oil shale oil and also of electricity production. And if this relatively modest part grows every year in the same order of magnitude as the general cost of living, it is inappropriate to claim that it reduces the competitiveness of companies. Wage growth, for example, is a much higher component of production costs and is expected to be significantly faster than the increase in environmental charges. Wage increases alone have a much greater impact on costs, but the main effect is, of course, the fall in oil prices. Once again, to frighten the fact that, if the cost of production rises by one promill, or 0.1%, it makes the company uncompetitive, it is inappropriate. But I believe in the Estonian oil shale industry. I believe in the trend that the Estonian oil shale industry will increase the added value of its production, that oil shale, when expressed in its vulgar form, will not drive the furnace, but will produce oil, and that oil can be refined to diesel in the future. These are steps in the right direction and I think that both Eesti Energia and VKG are making very good decisions. It is now up to us to put the framework in place for a long time and to do so in agreement with the companies so that it is not too burdensome. This must be done in dialogue, not in a way that one half of the people is scared. I'm sure you'll understand that there's no reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U69	Dear Lembit Kaljuvee, I'm sorry! You could ask a question, but the Prime Minister wouldn't be able to answer. I also apologise to Mart Meri and Minister Ossinovski. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U70	Honourable Riigikogu, you now have an excellent opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. No one wants to take advantage of this great opportunity, which is why we are doing a presence check. Please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present, 25 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U71	The first item on our agenda today is the third reading of the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please speak at Andrus Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a draft law, which is certainly a step in the right direction. A full stomach is a prerequisite for children to be healthy and able to focus on teaching. But even with this positive message on the bill, several politicians have managed to turn the political point over. Dear coalition politicians, who have taken the floor on your draft! This is not free food for upper secondary school students. This is part-time and the emphasis is on the word 'partial'. This is part of the support for local governments and private schools to compensate for lunch. Strangely, the Ministry of Education does not have a national overview of the price and quality of food rations offered in our schools. It seems that the Ministry does not want to get an overview of the reality so that it can continue to be confused as to whether this is sufficient or not in terms of the amount allocated by the State. I called a representative of my county, Raplamaa Municipality Association and received all the requested data very quickly. It turned out the Ministry had no interest in the cost of school lunches. I received confirmation from my inquiry that the figures provided by the representatives of the municipality are a reality, regardless of whether they are accepted or not by the central government. School lunch costs around EUR 1 and food rations, with the costs involved, around EUR 1 and a half - almost twice as much as the state's money allocation. These are the amounts that have been written off from this remote control before. The parties are, of course, well aware of the actual state of play, as the cost of school food has also been discussed in the annual negotiations between government and local government representatives. In addition, the representatives of the municipalities have specifically stated in the negotiating protocol that they are asking to avoid the rhetorical expression 'free school food' because it is wrong and misleading. Compensation for half the cost of food does not mean free of charge when opened. And it's okay if we talk about things the way they really are. We're poor, but let's be honest! The whole school lunch of the children in the country can't be paid, it costs half. It is strange to read in the explanatory memorandum that according to the draft, the cost of the state budget will increase by 3.1 million euros, which is also true, but it has been said with regard to the municipalities that the changes may result in an increase in the costs of the municipalities. When the bill becomes a law, the costs of local governments will also increase in the amount of 3.1 million euros. The fact that some municipalities have already tried not to differentiate between the financing of catering for children of different ages and to compensate for catering for all children in the municipality's budget does not undo the costs incurred by the municipality. While the total cost of a country's school lunch is around EUR 17.6 million, free school lunch costs EUR 34 million. And this will only be possible if the municipal budgets allow for such extra costs. In Raplamaa, eight out of ten municipalities can offer free lunch in their schools, and in the case of two municipalities, the parents' contribution is more symbolic. In addition, it should be noted that the sixth municipal school offers morning porridge and, if necessary, a grocery store. Morning porridge is popular among young people and it is a growing trend. We'd probably get a similar result in other counties if we did a poll. In summary, I would like to say that most municipalities can also do well with their limited budget. They have been two steps ahead of the country's decisions in offering school meals, or breakfast, lunch and waiting, and this is very positive. However, this is not a matter for the representatives of the state to adorn themselves with the closures of local governments. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association supports this bill: the better half of an egg than an empty shell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U73	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Etti Kagarov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U74	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In autumn 2002, municipalities received grants from the state budget to cover free school lunches for primary school pupils, in January 2006 to cater for pupils in primary education, and now, from January 2015, children in upper secondary school will finally receive free school lunches. In three consecutive years, the Social Democrats have proposed to allow free school lunch for upper secondary school students in the process of processing the draft State Budget Act. Today we can be sure that 22585 gymnasts will soon be guaranteed a free lunch and will be equalized to students in comprehensive schools and vocational schools. The draft State Budget Act 2015 is planned to cover 3.1 million euros. The large number of children in poverty has been a problem in Estonia for years. In addition to the possibility for all school pupils to have free school lunch, both national child benefits and needs-based family allowances will increase from 1 January, contributing to reducing child poverty. I believe that these measures will help all families with children, but especially those where someone is unemployed or receiving income support for other reasons. Unfortunately, it must be said that this help is also needed by families living in poor work. It is claimed that needs-based subsidies in particular help to reduce poverty. I do not agree with this because universal support improves both the livelihood of families and helps to maintain people's self-esteem and self-confidence; they do not have to humiliate themselves by applying for needs-based benefits. I agree that the amount allocated to the cost of school lunch cannot be quite satisfied. It does cover the cost of buying school food, but not the pay of cooks. Finally, however, I would like to stress that good health and good education provide a better guarantee that poverty will not occur and that our confident members of society will be able to contribute to Estonia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U75	On behalf of the Centre Party Group Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U76	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, According to Statistics Estonia's collection "Child welfare" published earlier this year, 17% of children lived in relative poverty and 9.5% of children lived in absolute poverty in Estonia in 2011. Since poverty affects the daily livelihood of a large number of children, it is vital to provide each school child with at least one warm meal a day. School food has been the object of sharp political debates for many years. According to the amendments to the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, since 1 September 2002 the State granted a grant to the municipalities and cities to cover school lunch costs. catering for pupils in class 1 and catering for pupils in elementary education from 1 January 2006. The Centre Party Group has been talking for years about the need to guarantee free school lunch for upper secondary school students as well. Unfortunately, the two drafts initiated by the Centre Party Group are still standing in the drawer of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture to this day. The first of them was handed over in this Chamber as early as 2011, the second in the spring of last year. Today, I am pleased to see that the government finally considers it necessary to provide a free school lunch for both primary and secondary students. When allocating the school lunch allowance, the state is based on the number of pupils in primary and secondary education and the estimated cost of school lunch per student in municipal and private schools located in the municipality's or city's administrative territory. The current €0.78 school lunch grant is not planned to be increased by the government, with a grant of €0.78 per student per day in 2015. The government has pursued the objective of compensating for the cost of food materials for school lunches in the planning and approval of the estimated cost of school lunches. However, the rapid increase in food prices has made it very difficult to offer a nutritious and healthy hot lunch for €0.78. Food prices have risen by 23% compared to 2010, while school lunch support has increased by only 4%. In order for the school lunch grant to be at the 2010 level in terms of inflation, this amount must increase. At present, the price increase has bitten away quite a large piece of healthy school food and the small amount imposed represents a risk to the quality of food, which is covered by Decree No 8 of the Minister of Social Affairs of January 2008. When we look back in time, the school lunch allowance was originally calculated as really covering the school lunch costs. As a result, there were very few local authorities who had to pay more to allow school meals. At the current amount of school food allowance of 0.78 euros per student, the local government or family often has to pay extra. Local authorities consider that the grant granted to cover school lunches is small and this forces municipalities to channel ever-increasing amounts from their budget to ensure school lunches. However, in spite of everything, this draft is still a step in the right direction and the Centre Party Group supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U77	Lauri Luik, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The extension of free school lunch to upper secondary school students is a very positive message for 22000 students from around 22000 households and about 100 municipalities. The legislative amendment has a positive impact on the health of young people in particular, because we know that for many young people, a school lunch is the only hot meal a day. Surely the growing organism must receive warm food every day. We have expanded our school lunch allowance from year to year according to options. As we know, 12 years ago, there was an opportunity of 1/4. Class 1 children's school lunch should be compensated. In 2006, we expanded it until the end of primary school and from next year to the end of upper secondary school. The good news is also that the resources allocated by this legislative amendment are additional support for local authorities who have already helped to compensate for the cost of high school lunches. You can always complain, of course, that the sums are small and the money could be more, but it must be said that we are based on the real state of the state budget and the economic capacity of the state. Of course, in the future, we must bear in mind that these financial allocations should be kept up to date. Inevitably, life becomes more expensive. Perhaps we must come back to this in the future and make adjustments. Generally speaking, it is a very positive message from the state that it also supports upper secondary school students by ensuring that at least one free meal per day is guaranteed. In any case, the Reform Party is in favour of adopting the draft law and recommends that everyone else be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U79	I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on draft 689. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 689. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill 689 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending § 42 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U80	Our next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U81	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act in 641 s. a on April 14th. With the draft, we have planned to give the municipality the opportunity to replace the kindergarten place applied for with the consent of the parent and provided that the child is between one and a half years old, with a child care place. In this case, the proportion of the parent to be covered may not exceed 20% of the minimum wage established by the government. In addition, the draft aims to give children from one family the right to attend the same kindergarten and to establish the ratio of children to adults in groups of children's institutions. The first reading of the bill took place this spring on 7 May. By the deadline of 21 May, four proposals were tabled by the Centre Party Group and 14 by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. The Estonian Association of Early Education Managers, the Estonian Professional Association of Children's Careers, the Estonian Association of Kindergartens, the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, representatives of Narva kindergartens, the Saue City Government, the Institute of Educational Sciences of the University of Tartu and the City Government of Tartu also presented their views and suggestions on the draft. We also asked about the possible amendments of the Committee on Culture from Saue Municipality, the Estonian Association of Early Education Managers, the Estonian Professional Association of Babysitters, the NGO Little Sun Care and Tartu City Government. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Association of Private Kindergartens also sent their views. In addition, we asked the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs what is thought of the amendment of the Income Tax Act in view of the fact that the parent will be offered childcare instead of the place of child care. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its ten plenary sessions in preparation for the second reading. At the meeting on 20 May, we discussed the draft with the parties. As a result of the discussion and consideration of written opinions, the Committee on Culture decided to propose seven amendments to the draft. Now for more details on the amendments. Amendment 1 proposes that a kindergarten and a comprehensive school or university or a university of applied sciences may act as a single institution. The Committee on Culture does not support the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to allow higher education institutions, like comprehensive school, to act as one institution together with kindergarten. The Committee on Culture does not consider it appropriate that a separate structural unit be set up for the organisation of student placements at a higher education institution. The solution should be closer cooperation between higher education institutions and municipalities. Universities can still offer students the care of their children in accordance with the Social Welfare Act. Amendments 2 and 3 concern the age distribution of kindergarten groups. The Committee on Culture proposes to make the three-tier age distribution of kindergarten groups two-tier and to extend the age range of the composite group to children in all institutions. According to specialists, the current distribution in the law has fallen short of time, therefore the amendment. This, of course, does not oblige children's institutions to change their current practice, but enables them to choose which system to offer families. It also allows for the resolution of individual cases where the child cannot be offered a place in his or her age group, while there is a place in the second group. Amendments 4 and 18 concern the decision to increase the number of children in the group. For its part, the Committee on Culture proposes to supplement § 7 (11) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act with the second sentence, which states that the Council's decision to increase groups is made separately for each group. Since this may be part of the new situation for children's institutions, we have set 1 September 2015 as the deadline for implementing the provision. Amendments 5 and 9 concern the definition of the place of residence of a child in a replacement home or family care. The Committee on Culture proposes to define the place of residence of a child in a replacement home or family care as his or her actual place of residence. The principle that children without parental care must also be able to attend a kindergarten close to their actual place of residence is considered important. Amendments 6 and 7 concern the provision of childcare facilities and childcare facilities for parents. According to the draft, the municipality may, with the consent of the parent, replace the place of the child care institution with the place of the child care provider for up to three years. Amendment 8 concerns the right of children from one family to attend a single childcare facility, if possible. The proposal of the Committee on Culture is to provide the municipality with a weighing room for children of one family to be placed in the same childcare facility, based on real opportunities. Amendment 10 concerns a school-ready card provided by a child institution. The Committee on Culture did not support the IRL Group's proposal to repeal the obligation of a child institution to give a child a school-ready card. According to the law, the institution must give a school-readiness card to the child who has completed the kindergarten curriculum, which shows the results of his or her development. The parent will present the card to the school where his child will attend. The Committee on Culture proposed that the Ministry of Education and Research analyse the implementation of the school-readiness card as part of the preparation of the concept of early childhood education in accordance with the objective set. Amendments 11 to 14 concern the rules of procedure and the operational and daily schedule of the child institution. The Committee on Culture proposes the introduction of mandatory rules of procedure for children's institutions. The Commission took note of the IRL Group's proposal that the Rules of Procedure should be approved by the Council of Ministers and should be mandatory for parents. However, the Committee on Culture did not support the IRL Group's proposal to repeal the mandatory action and agenda of the child institution, which was related to the right to establish rules of procedure. According to the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the children's institution must draw up an operational and daily plan based on the national curriculum as well as the cultural peculiarities of the locality. According to the Committee on Culture, the Rules of Procedure of the Children's Institution could include, for example, guidance for parents on bringing the child to and taking him home, as well as tips for teachers on how to deal with different situations and exchange information. Amendments 15 to 17 concern teachers and teachers in the group of assisting staff and children. The proposal is to clarify the ratio of adult persons to children and the circle that is considered to be adult persons and to change the ratios. The Ministry of Education and Research also believes that this amendment could be made in the law. The text of the draft law does not specify the definition of an adult person, but according to the explanatory memorandum, it is intended to provide the assistance of a teacher or teacher. The proposal is also based on the objective of the originator in the text of the draft text to refer to an adult person who works in the field of education and training or as a teacher's assistant. In practice, too general a wording may lead to different interpretations. According to § 20 (1), the staff member who assists the teacher is a person who deals with children every day. This means that there are no people who are solely responsible for cleaning the premises or for the maintenance of the buildings on the premises of the children's institution. As far as the ratio is concerned, the proposal is based on the number of children in non-enlarged groups, but if some groups have been increased on the Council proposal, a correspondingly higher ratio is allowed. Amendment 19 concerns parental participation in part-time childcare facilities. The Committee on Culture did not support the IRL Group's proposal that the parental remuneration be proportionate to the agreed time of the child's stay in the child's institution. The Commission considers that it is difficult for a child institution to plan its budget in this case and therefore it was not considered possible to support this proposal. Amendment 20 concerns the parent's own contribution and the cost of the municipality when paying for childcare. The Cultural Commission did not support IRL's proposal to equalise the remuneration paid by the parent for childcare services, the local authority's place fee and food money, and to set a ceiling on the municipality's own contribution fee. This is because it is a self-regulation right of a local government. Amendment 21 concerns the equalisation of childcare fees with training costs. The Committee on Culture did not support the proposal to include childcare fees in the training costs. In fact, according to § 26 (2) of the Income Tax Act, training costs are the costs paid for studying paid courses organised by an educational institution and are only eligible for deduction from income. The cost of training is also considered to be the parental allowance paid to the child's institution, including when the child is in the crèches group. According to the Act, § 26 of the Income Tax Act does not apply to childcare services. According to the Committee on Culture, the proposal would require a more comprehensive solution in the future concept of early childhood education, which is currently being developed by the Ministry of Education and Research. And Amendment 22, which is also the last, concerns the entry into force of the law. The Committee on Culture proposes the Act to enter into force on 1 January next year, with the exception of paragraphs 3 and 6 of § 1 of the Act, which would enter into force on 1 September of the following year. Later, the points concerning the ratio of children to adults in childcare facilities and the establishment of rules of procedure would enter into force. Both concern the organisation of the work of the institution and it is necessary to take account of the time needed to draw up and approve it. Therefore, a later date of entry into force. The Committee on Culture also took its own procedural decisions. On 14 October, we decided to put a draft on the agenda for the 641 plenary sittings for second reading by 22 October today. We propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U82	Questions for the waitress. Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U83	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! I ask you to explain once again to the people of Estonia what is meant by the addition to § 7 (11) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act: the decision is made separately for each group of crèches, kindergartens and associations. I'm still not quite happy with the explanatory statement. If the kindergarten has had the Bear group for 30 years and the Bear group has decided that there are 24 children instead of 20 children, what will change as a result of this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U84	Thank you. We discussed at length in the Commission how best to formulate and regulate it. The aim is to ensure that regulations are as flexible as possible and take into account the real situation in kindergarten groups. The idea is that the decision taken by the Council should apply to a particular group during a specific period of time. That's the point of change.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U85	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U86	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, I have to say that I had the exact same question. Quite a number of the institutions concerned have asked for this to be clarified. But since that question was asked, I'm going to go to the next one. Can you specify the difference between the number of teachers and the number of children in care and municipal day care centres? Maybe we can bring out that math for a second. How many children must one adult be in a care service? We're talking about children 1.5 to 3 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U87	As we know, everything that regulates kindergartens is written in the pre-school institution law, which we are currently dealing with and which the amending draft is before you. The topic of childcare is in the Social Welfare Act. According to the Social Welfare Act, there may be up to five children per breeder. Based on internships, children are sometimes given more attention in childcare than in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U88	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U89	Thank you, manager. Mr President of the Commission. I am asking about Amendment 21 of the IRL, where we have proposed to include the child care fee in the training costs, i.e. equalising it with the kindergarten service. This proposal has been supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs in its letter. The Ministry of Finance estimated its budgetary impact to be small. When we spoke with the members of the Committee on Culture, including the politicians in the coalition, they agreed at first that this could be the case. How much is it, what was too much, and where did this change of heart come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U90	I personally believe that treatment should be equal. However, we know that this is not only the case for savings and gardens, but there is also a difference in treatment when calculating income tax when taking into account the fees of sports schools and sports clubs. Of course, it would be correct for all parties to be treated equally in both cases. The problem is that we do not have the money to do so at the moment, and when the Ministry planned this draft, the corresponding changes had not been made to the state budget either. That is a very clear reason why we cannot do this now. However, my personal position is, I repeat, people should be treated equally. However, if necessary, we can come back to this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U91	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U92	Thank you. I am forced to continue with my previous question. Please tell me when a decision is taken that the number of children in the Bear group will be increased from 20 to 24, how long this decision will be valid and which children will be the subject of this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U93	In my opinion, it makes perfect sense that if the board of trustees makes any decision, it determines itself that it means this or another specific group of children who go there. When a new group comes, there's a new situation, a new decision will be made. This is, in my opinion, a technical matter such that it should not be discussed in depth in the large Chamber. I think it's basic.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U94	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U95	Thank you. Good first speaker! I have a question about Amendment 21. You said it wasn't covered by the Income Tax Act, I don't remember which section. But in general that is why the IRL proposed this amendment. I have a question about the amendments that the Commission has taken into account. Are these issues regulated in other legislation, then, and if they are regulated, why are they considered as amendments at all in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U96	Your group has indeed tabled an amendment, but we did not see where the necessary resources could be taken from the state budget to take it into account. There is always a reference to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U97	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U98	Thank you. My question also concerns childcare and kindergarten fees. They are treated differently. You said your personal position was basically right to be treated the same way. At least for the second time in this Chamber, I ask how much would have been the amount that would have taken from the state budget to treat children in childcare and kindergarten equally. We know that the first reading of the state budget is still ahead, perhaps during the proceedings of the Riigikogu it will find this money. The new draft State Budget Act will be dealt with on the basis of existing laws. And we are also changing tax laws together with the state budget. That cannot be the reason that this amount is not available in the state budget. If we consider this amendment to be essential in principle and necessary, then we must, in the process of dealing with the draft state budget, rely on it and find the necessary money. How much is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U99	I will start by saying that in my opinion, the position taken by the Ministry of Education and Research is also important, so that childcare and kindergarten can be approached by their very nature. This principle is also being sought to incorporate the concept of early childhood education, which is currently being developed. What are the specific amounts for your amendment, you can search out your amendment in the explanatory memorandum. But as a former minister, you know very well that budget planning is a long process and it will be more or less put in place for months before it reaches this great hall. This is a particular reason why we do not have this amount in the budget. And that is why the Commission has decided that we cannot support it for the time being.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U100	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U101	Thank you, manager. Do you also have any statistics or understanding of how many municipalities this bill might concern? I can't imagine anyone in Põlva County, for example, developing this kind of childcare. And in Tallinn more than 300 kindergarten places are already over, not missing. Besides the city of Tartu, does this bill concern any other municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U102	Yes, it concerns about 10% of our local authorities, especially the larger cities and the surrounding municipalities. If we give the law an additional flexibility for municipalities to offer childcare services to the parents of children aged 1.5 to 3 in addition to the kindergarten, and if the parent agrees, the municipality's obligation to the law is fulfilled. Consequently, local governments will be motivated to create more storage facilities and we will be better able to solve the problem of a large number of children waiting for their place in the order of kindergarten. If we give this opportunity, the municipalities will hopefully also start creating more storage facilities, and if parents accept these places, this problem will ease.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U103	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U104	Thank you. I'm still going on with the same thing. Yes, I am indeed aware of the length of the budgetary process. We have adopted drafts here in the Riigikogu in the spring, and we will also adopt drafts in the autumn, which will affect the state budget and which will also require changes during the process of preparing the state budget. But I'm gonna ask you again how much it is. You said it was in the explanatory memorandum. Yeah, it is. Don't you know that, or do you not want to say the amount that would cost? Secondly, since the municipality has an obligation to provide a place for each child in kindergarten, it is likely that providing childcare services will not require any additional money at all, but that it will free up the resources that would be spent on day-care centres. How much is it, however, that we can no longer plan for the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U105	Thank you. I'm gonna get this number out of the explanatory memorandum and send you this e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U106	No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a well-known and long-known truth that, indeed, a local government must provide a kindergarten place for all children between 1.5 and 7 years of age living in its territory. The most important innovation of this bill is that according to the amendment, the municipality can offer childcare facilities to parents of children aged 1.5 to 3 years, if there is no place in municipal day care. It is also positive that the formation of composite groups will become more flexible and that the age range of children will increase in them. In the past, the law has provided for this possibility from 2 years of age, now for younger people, from 1.5 years of age. In previous discussions, doubts have been raised as to whether this is a good solution, as if the local authority happily frees it from the cumbersome obligation to provide a kindergarten place for each child. We have also just heard from the mouth of Tarmo Tamme that the law is being made for the city of Tartu. It's as if it doesn't concern anyone else. I'm sure that's not true. The idea of creating childcare facilities was given by the City of Tartu from the draft prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research and the progress of this process. So it was implemented to see how good the feedback was and what the results were. It is certainly important whether the children of one family get into the same kindergarten, and this point was basically included in the old pre-school law. The amendment concerns the preference of other children in the same family, which is basically the right approach. At first, there was an imperative requirement, but in practice this may not be possible every time, and it is therefore good that a pair of words 'if possible' remained in the draft. More opportunities can be created by increasing the number of children in groups within the limits of the normal range, by more flexible assembly of groups, by creating new places and using composite groups. I certainly do not compete with the experiences of the many-child mothers in this room, but I, the mother of two daughters, and the grandmother of two young children also have some experience. They've all been to or are now in kindergarten, the youngest of them are now 1.5 years old and a little bit more. If the active mother has a choice of waiting in the order of the kindergarten where there is a good level of pedagogical activity, but there is no immediate place, and in the meantime, I would definitely choose this. People dealing with children must also meet certain qualification requirements and certain conditions must also be met at the place of storage. The most important thing for a child aged between 1.5 and 3 years is definitely socialisation, getting used to self-perpetuating, life-saving activities such as eating, dressing or toiletting. While these are not skills in the pedagogical curriculum, they are certainly also taught in childcare. Teachers may also include other children with whom they are associated. For each of the five children, there is a teacher at the safe house that allows one adult to keep an adequate eye on his subjects. Please understand me right! I certainly do not think that the care service could replace municipal day care by 100%, but obviously it is a major step forward to alleviate the situation in families where the child is at home, for example, due to the absence of a nursery place. Mom and Dad may have to go back to work for economic or other reasons. Even when a child is with a carer, he or she may not be able to learn what is written in a pedagogical curriculum, and when he or she is at home all the time, he or she may not be able to get used to the specifics of other children and communicate with them. Local authorities will continue to have a strict obligation to provide a garden place for all children aged four years and over. It also guarantees systematic pedagogical activity, and I believe that from this age onwards it will be a good preparation for the school course that will soon begin. The legal requirement that a parent's share in the payment for childcare should not exceed 20% of the minimum wage also enables those who may not have been able to do so in the past due to financial distress. This is a very good draft, and the Reform Party Group will certainly support it. This, of course, does not rule out that practical life will bring us back to this law sometime in order to make adjustments and improvements based on the experiences of life itself over time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U108	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please! Three minutes to Liisa-Ly Pakosta.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, What is the main issue of families with children in the Republic of Estonia after the end of parental benefit? Parental benefit ends and the income runs out, the mother or father has to go back to work, otherwise there is no money to support the family. It's a perfectly normal thing. Only where to leave the baby? I agree with the previous speaker that this issue is painful and that a good solution must be found. In the Republic of Estonia, and even before that time, we have a law that has been in force for a very long time, which says that, essentially, the next working day after the parent's application, the local government must give the child of this family a day care centre. Most municipalities are able to fulfil this obligation nicely and only a few years ago, when the number of children in Estonia was considerably higher, all Estonian municipalities were able to fulfil this obligation. This has never been very successful in the case of children with special needs with concessions. If we look a little north or west, it has even succeeded in these countries. If people are asked why they do not want to give birth to the next child, it is not because of small child benefits or other things that are relatively easy to solve. The first thing to be mentioned is that it is easier to solve: people want to be sure that there is a kindergarten place for a child. This is a key issue and this bill, good friends, will not solve this key issue. I would like to thank all my fellow Members from the Committee on Culture, including the chairman of the committee, Swan and Commission officials, for meeting the Commission for a whole ten-long session to discuss the paragraphs of this couple. In fact, all members of the Riigikogu realised that this bill does not solve this fundamental issue and does not offer any new quality. The only thing this bill offers is a kind of relief for the local government, and that is a relief. Is this relief in a useful way for children? I doubt it very much. Is this relief harmful to children? Sort of. The worst things were grazed out by the Committee on Culture, and once again thanks to colleagues! Are we going to make something better in the lives of Estonian children with this bill? No. We are making something better from the perspective of local governments, because they can spend their income base on goals other than children. If you come to the individual points, there are already a number of myths about this bill. The previous speaker spoke here, for example, about the national curriculum as something frightening. Just for information, there are self-help activities in the national early childhood education curriculum, such as potty learning and all these things in a nice way. The authors of the national curriculum have never thought for a moment that crooked children should sit in some classes. No, the national curriculum provides them with everything that is age-appropriate: how to learn to use potting, how to learn to eat yourself, how to learn to keep clean and other such activities. So don't scare me with that. The second myth: the previous speaker mentioned here that the local government would be obliged to offer a kindergarten place from the age of four. No, this bill allows day care to be replaced by childcare in such a way as to ensure that there is a child care place from the age of three. One speech alone showed how wrong it is to understand one bill, not to mention how we got stuck here, for example, discussing income tax exemptions. Yes, indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs replied to the Committee on Culture's inquiry that if the place of kindergarten was replaced by a childcare place, it would also be fair and necessary to provide income tax exemption for childcare, and they strongly support this change. The Ministry of Finance acknowledged that there was no substantial budgetary impact. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that every local government has a duty to offer a kindergarten place to every kindergarten-age child, which means that if, by some miracle, local authorities would comply with this rule of law, then tomorrow, from the state budget, all the parents of these children should be entitled to income tax refunds. This bill does not create three or four thousand more children so that the state budget somehow falls into a hole. And at present, the State already has the obligation to refund this income tax, either way, so that there is absolutely no budgetary impact. To be honest, I could not understand why ladies and gentlemen from the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party voted against this point of income tax exemption. After all, the ministries had a supportive position and there was no impact on the state budget. Compared to childcare and kindergarten, the replacement of care would justify itself, for example, for children with special needs for whom there is no suitable kindergarten place. If such a special need exists for an individual child, it would indeed be more reasonable to help this family by providing care. However, the biggest problem, I would like to emphasise once again, is still unsolved in this draft. If the local government does not offer the family with the child a day care centre or a day care centre, then the family is in great trouble and still remains the only way to turn to the court. However, the courts are slow to grind, and by the time the court settlement is made, the child will be quite large. International studies, as well as the European Commission's recommendations to Estonia, have stressed that it is in the earliest youth of the child that the observations and teachings of professional staff are most useful. Many childcare facilities are very good in Estonia, but neither teachers nor educators work there. These people do not need to have any kind of pedagogical higher education, as required by kindergarten teachers, nor do they need to have the skills to deal with children with special needs. For all these reasons, the IRL proposes to interrupt the second reading of this draft and to make a draft that would actually help families with Estonian children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U110	Eldar Efendiev, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U111	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the text of the second reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 641. The aim of the draft is to make childcare facilities more flexible, to provide early childhood education in pre-school institutions to at least 95% of children and to give children from one family the right to attend the same kindergarten. The reason for initiating the draft is that some municipalities do not have enough kindergarten places, especially for children under the age of three. There are two possible solutions. Firstly, to support local authorities and, by doing so, children's institutions in order to increase the number of gardening places or to organise childcare outside the kindergarten. The latter option is also favoured by the fact that the current situation is demographically economical and does not last for long. This argument was also the basis for the proposal not to allocate additional State resources to local authorities. During the procedure, many questions and suggestions arose in the committee, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu as well as outside the Riigikogu. At this point, I would like to thank the chairman of the Commission and the advisers who held a broad and good level debate on the draft. During the discussion, the problems of pre-school institutions, which have accumulated over a long period of time, were formulated, and so was the future of these institutions. After a long debate in the Commission, the draft was limited to the framework, which deleted the issues raised by children's institutions. These topics were allowed to come back when the Ministry of Education and Research was ready to make proposals on the subject. However, in this form, the draft requires restructuring in children's institutions and problems are coming to the surface again, as childcare facilities must start to meet the requirements with limited resources. Now unsolved problems. The draft amendment to the Pre-school Children's Institution Act does not address the problems of many kindergarten children and kindergarten teachers, which still require urgent response and resolution. Here are the major bottlenecks in early childhood education. Firstly, kindergarten teachers and teachers need guarantees. Unfortunately, kindergarten teachers have been excluded from the list of minimum wage rates established by the Government of the Republic. Some municipalities, such as the City of Tallinn and the Harku municipality, have, on their own initiative, set sums similar to the minimum wage rates for school teachers in the form of minimum wages for kindergarten teachers. But a lot of local governments don't have the money. However, qualification requirements for kindergarten teachers, continuing training obligations and other quality requirements are already in place. Unfortunately, to date, we have not been able to guarantee them minimum wages comparable to those of school teachers. It is therefore important to set national minimum pay rates for kindergarten teachers and special-purpose budget allocations to increase the cost base of municipalities accordingly. On the one hand, we allocate extra money to municipalities to raise the pay of kindergarten teachers, on the other hand, ensuring fairer treatment for kindergarten teachers. The Centre Party Group also handed over a draft on this subject in this very Chamber last June, which was unfortunately rejected at first reading. In 2007, the "Every child's day care centre" programme was developed! ', which was intended to support local authorities in building new kindergartens and renovating existing ones, as without additional support it was not possible for all municipalities to provide a kindergarten place for each child. Because of the economic crisis, this programme stopped, and now it could be restarted. The needs and opportunities of municipalities to provide kindergarten places vary greatly. In addition, it is necessary to establish the relationship between the state and local government in financing pre-school children's institutions. Already in kindergarten, the transition to education in Estonian must be further supported. This has been emphasised several times by the Minister for Education and Science, but this idea has not been supported. A preschool year in kindergarten should be mandatory for every child or each child should be listed at a kindergarten. The aim is to ensure a uniform preparation for school. I repeat, so far it has not been defined how sectoral participation and responsibility are divided between local government and the state. Local government responsibilities and state control, requirements and sanctions are not in balance. Local authorities do not have the resources to fulfil the state's requirements in full. The salaries of the staff of children's institutions do not meet the burden and qualification requirements, and municipalities cannot successfully develop the field with their own resources without state support. As a result, the sector could lose a number of specialists. The issue of leave for teachers and specialists also needs to be resolved. Local authorities have limited opportunities to acquire modern tools and programmes that are essential for children's development. The study of Estonian in non-Estonian kindergartens would be welcomed. The latter leaders, for example, in Narva, have proposed to allow this, but the answer has been brief: it is the responsibility of the local government. Of course, this is not a final list, but it is enough to imagine the problems in this area. I hope that the government coalition will have the will to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U112	Thank you. I have two procedural remarks on both occasions when my name was mentioned. Firstly, there is a procedural remark that the IRL did not vote in favour of concluding the second reading in the Commission. And since when is the proposal to interrupt second reading in the Commission? The place to do this is still in the hall. So this complaint isn't a criminal. Secondly, yes, I was really part of the working group that prepared this bill. As a relief, the working group provided for the replacement of a kindergarten place by a care service only if the local government's guarantee of the place was specified. Unfortunately, the bill before you only offers this relief, but it leaves nothing to ensure that the family with children actually has a day-care position.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U113	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Jaak Allik's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised by my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta and by the proposal of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association to interrupt the second reading of this bill. They did not make this proposal in the Commission. In this regard, I would like to recall a little bit the circumstances surrounding the procedure for this draft. The draft was submitted to the Riigikogu in the spring by the Minister of Education Ossinovski, but prepared by the Ministry headed by the Minister of Education Aaviksoo. We learned in the procedure of the draft that this amendment had been prepared for two years by a working group, including Mrs Pakosta. However, the work of this working group revealed a great many contradictions between the various stakeholders, including the other opinions of the local governments, and nothing was better achieved than this draft, which is, in fact, a more moral act. As we talked about in the Commission, what the working group in question started in its time was left, like washing water, and the child was thrown out of the bowl, and the result is merely to state that, with the consent of the parent, the municipality can replace the kindergarten place with a care service provided to a child of between one and a half and three years. This is, of course, positive, but it is far from resolving the problems associated with the pre-school law. Indeed, the Commission discussed this draft law ten times. There were dozens of improvements, there was the involvement of all stakeholders, but there were the same contradictions. And we finally came to the conclusion that we are essentially presenting this draft in the same form as at first reading. Only some technical details have changed, which shows that the problems are very deep. I hope that the current Minister of Education will start a review of the pre-school institution law and the whole concept of early childhood education, and then all the problems that were discussed here today will also be addressed. Of course, as a Social Democrat, I have always talked about the fact that the oldest pre-school kindergarten group should be compulsory and should then be financed by the state. We are also in favour of the state setting minimum standards for the pay of kindergarten teachers, as they apply to teachers. This, too, requires a fundamental change in the system, because the local government has the right to ask for money immediately. These things cannot be done by changing one or two words in the law, the whole concept of early childhood education and the role of the state in early childhood education should probably be changed. I really hope that the new Riigikogu will take this seriously, because the issues of early childhood education are, in my opinion, one of the most striking bottlenecks in our entire education system right now. As regards the issue of income tax, I share the same view as Lauri Luik. In my opinion, too, this regulation leads to unequal treatment of parents using childcare facilities and childcare facilities. That's not good. However, I would like to remind you that, although the explanatory memorandum states that the Ministry of Finance considers the budgetary impact of the draft to be small, the Ministry did not accept this correction and if no specific amounts are foreseen in the state budget for the following year during the draft budget procedure, I would say that parliamentary, or at least the good practice of the government coalition, will not allow such financial changes to be made. But like Lauri Luik, I hope that this injustice will disappear over the next year and when the budget for the following year is drawn up, because this injustice is obvious and very regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U115	Thank you very much. Liisa-Ly Pakosta has the right to rejoinder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U116	Thank you. I will close the negotiations and we will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1 is tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U117	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U118	Let us prepare for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is a proposal from the Committee on Culture, a proposal from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 3 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group, the proposal of the commission: take part in the consideration. Amendment 4 is a proposal from the Committee on Culture, a proposal from the lead committee: take full account. Proposal No 5 is from the Committee on Culture, a proposal from the lead committee: take full account. Proposal No 6 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U119	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 6, which has been tabled by the IRL Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. Amendment 7 is from the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U121	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U122	We shall vote on the seventh amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 7 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Proposal by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 is proposed by the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 9 is from the IRL. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U123	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Proposal by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 is a proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, proposed by the commission of directors: not to be taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the lead committee: consider the substance. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, the lead committee: consider the substance. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 16 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, the lead committee: consider the substance. Amendment 17 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the commission: not to be taken into account. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U125	Thank you. I ask for the vote on Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U126	Let's vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 17 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, the lead committee: consider the substance. Amendment 19 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U127	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U128	Let's vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 20, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U129	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U130	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21 by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 is from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The Riigikogu Board has received a proposal from the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-Study Children's Institution Act 641. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 641. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 641 is complete; it is aimed at the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U131	We will continue with the item on the agenda. The third point is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 722. I ask for a presentation by Lauri Luige, Chairman of the Chair of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a September 22, 2005. The draft aims to establish support for sports clubs and sports schools to cover the staff costs of coaches. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 October, with no proposals submitted by 15 October. The Committee on Culture asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the draft mandate rule. The Legal and Analytical Department proposed to lay down a clear basis and purpose for the payment of the grant in the law and to supplement the draft by virtue of § 4 of the Administrative Cooperation Act, according to which the law must also specify the organisation of the further performance of the administrative task in the event that the administrative contract is terminated unilaterally or the authorised person is no longer able to carry out this task for any other reason. The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation of the second reading on 16, 20 and 21 October and, as a result of the discussions, we decided to make two amendments. Now, closer to them. Amendment 1 The Commission's proposal is to clarify and lay down in the Sport Act the support for trainers' labour costs as a separate section and also to grant entitlement to support to sports federations. The proposal to provide for a new grant separate from the section of the Act on the financing of sport is based on the fact that the proposed support differs from the current funding of sport, both in terms of its content and in terms of the number of persons involved. The law is intended to be supplemented by § 91, which states in paragraph 1 the purpose of the grant: the grant is intended to cover part of the staff costs of coaches for sports clubs and schools. The proposal sets out, as the basis for calculating the amount of aid to be paid, the amount of training hours to be supervised and the competence of the Minister responsible for the field to decide on the allocation, allocation and recovery of the aid. In paragraph 7, we have specified the power of attorney for establishing conditions and procedures, but we have remained at a more general level, allowing the Minister to establish more precise conditions for the cases mentioned in the law itself. It is also possible for the Minister to lay down the training qualification requirements for the grant, which are the fifth and higher level of professional qualification according to the draft regulation. If necessary, the Minister will also be able to impose a lower or higher level of professional qualifications. According to the draft, sports clubs and sports schools are the beneficiaries of the coach's staff costs support, and the proposal of the Committee on Culture is to extend the range of beneficiaries to sport associations. According to the Ministry of Culture, the day-to-day training work takes place in sports clubs and sports schools, which is why the draft is based on the principle of support for coaches who work daily with children and young people. On the basis of the available data, the Ministry expects applications to be received from around 500 sports clubs or sports schools to cover the labour costs of nearly 1 500 trainers working with children and young people. The Ministry of Culture also supports the expansion of the coach's labour cost support to sports federations, as this would contribute to training young people in mastery groups. There are 60 sub-unions in Estonia, but the ability to carry out qualifying training work is estimated by the Ministry to be around 10 sports federations and this means covering the labour costs of about 15 coaches. Amendment 2: The proposal of the Cultural Commission is to enforce the law instead of the usual ten days on the day following the publication of the Act in the Official Journal of the State. The amendment is due to the fact that the initiator of the draft proposal has already planned the start of the first round of applications in November this year and during the examination of applications in December. The Commission's procedural decisions and proposals were as follows: On 16 October, the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft for the second reading of 722 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 22 October and to propose that the second reading be terminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U133	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U134	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, When the sports support group of the Riigikogu met years ago, we charted two main concerns in Estonian sport. One was the low wage of coaches and the other was that the expenditure incurred by companies on workers' health sports has not been exempted from the special preferential tax. I am pleased that one of the problems we have mapped is starting to come up with some sort of solution. This solution is not ideal, but it is still a step forward. It is sad that the Ministry, which is under the rule of the ministers of the Reform Party, has finally found a solution so late. This solution was, in fact, known a long time ago, simply had to be found in the budget to cover the staff costs of coaches. The practice so far was that the salary was largely paid in the form of scholarships. It was actually considered illegal and it was not normal. And there hasn't been much talk about it, but there were coaches who wanted to be and who were honest, decent citizens, didn't condense scholarships, and they were paid all the time to pay off all the taxes they had to pay. These coaches and these sports clubs, unfortunately, were often not competitive with others because of fair tax payments, who were able to charge less due to non-payment of taxes. In this sense, I welcome the draft It can always be argued whether the amount allocated is sufficient, and why so little could have been more, could have brought the categories down, etc., but I think this is a step in the right direction and, in any case, I support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U135	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is about us patching up the consequences of what has been done in our time. One problem is that sports schools were abolished, and the other is that funds were taken away from local authorities, as well as the obligation to engage in youth sport. As a result, sports clubs remained part of the orphanage and in order to deal with young people at all and develop youth sport in some way, were transferred to the scholarship system. The scholarship system means that these coaches do not have social guarantees and the state also misses taxes. Now it seems that the scholarship time is coming to an end and we're on the right track. Although the amount of support is 50% of all the money needed, it is still a worthwhile undertaking, which gives assurance that youth sport in Estonia will not fade away. At the same time, it can be said with certainty that since all the taxes have to be paid on the whole coach's salary, parents will certainly be asked for more money. The good idea is that sports clubs and sports schools are treated on an equal footing and that many municipalities who have a sports school receive additional financial support. I think that for some municipalities, this additional support could be EUR 50000 to EUR 70,000, which is welcome in itself, because they have borne this cost throughout this period. Here is one big difference between my understanding that youth sport should be dealt with by the local government. Municipalities should be re-enforced by law to deal with it and, at the same time, to secure them with the necessary amounts, even by increasing the percentage of income tax. I think that the local government should be able to decide for itself whether it supports sport through sports schools or clubs. This problem of how to support adult sport is, in fact, unsolved. Estonian adult sport is also for orphans. Will state companies be allowed to support teams and adult sport again? How are the judges gonna manage, are they gonna be able to hire judges? This bill does not offer these solutions. However, I think that this is a subject that is going on, and the country's top sport is a state business card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U137	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Two amendments have been tabled. The first is from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second is also from the Committee on Culture; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined. The second reading of Bill 722 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U138	Let's move on to today's agenda. Point 4 is now under discussion, the first reading of the 2015 Draft State Budget Act 730 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The surrounding economic environment always requires Estonia to be attentive and willing to be flexible. The problems affecting a small open economy in Europe and neighbouring countries are more important, and our household needs to be in a particularly good condition to balance the effects of a changing environment. The 2015 state budget is in front of you, which has been made in view of the risks and with the aim of ensuring the well-being of the Estonian population. First of all, I will talk about the forecast of the economic environment. Things in the world are fickle, but Estonia is expected to pick up economic growth, improve tax revenues and increase people's incomes next year. In the near future, low external demand is limiting growth, which also hampers investment activity. However, it promises to increase gradually next year. In the meantime, the Estonian economy is supported primarily by domestic consumption, the support of which will last in the coming years. Consumers, wages and the purchasing power of income have grown rapidly and inflation has temporarily stalled, preserving confidence in trade. Consumer confidence is supported by a reduction in unemployment this year and in the near future. The average wage growth rate remains close to 6% both this year and next year, as well as a reduction in the income tax rate and unemployment insurance rate, as well as an increase in the tax-free income in 2015 will increase net income and allow private consumption and investment to increase. The Ministry of Finance forecasts GDP growth of 2.5% in 2015 and 3.5% in 2016. These expected growth rates are significantly better than the EU and euro area averages. In Estonia, economic growth has not stagnated in the last year either, unlike in previous statistics. On the basis of more recent data, growth is expected to be 1.5-2% this year. The important objective of public finances is to maintain a balance, i.e. to finance the tasks of the state in a way that stabilises the economic environment. The structural balance shows that the costs are meaningful. The Estonian state budget has maintained this balance and surplus since 2009. Structurally, the general government budget for 2015 is in surplus at 0.8% of GDP. This surplus is greater than the budget strategy of the previous government and far greater than the result of its latest decisions. It is also 0.6 percentage point higher than foreseen in the new government's budget strategy in spring. I can assure you that the Estonian state lives according to its abilities. The nominal deficit of the general government budget is at a minimum of 0.5% of GDP, i.e. 111 million euros. The state budget accounts for 59 million euros of this deficit and 38 million euros for local authorities. The deficit is small, remaining quite close to balance, and is caused by temporary factors. I'll name two bigger ones. These are additional national contributions to mandatory funded pension funds for those who continued their payments during the crisis. There is an increase of 55 million euros. Secondly, we invest in the revenue from the sale of greenhouse gas quotas. The biggest cost source is Tallinn trams, the tram route is planned to be extended to the airport. The country does not need to borrow to cover the nominal deficit, the government sector is forecast to reach the nominal surplus in 2016. The nominal deficit in the general government budget should be compared to the number of times larger investments that will boost the economy. The state, together with the RKAS, will invest 768 million euros next year, together with the local governments' contribution of 927 million euros, or 4.6% of GDP. This is a very high level on a European scale. In all respects, therefore, the criticism that the State is borrowing or using the reserve to cover current expenditure has already sounded meaningless when presenting the budget. Estonia will continue to be the country with the lowest debt burden in the European Union. The general government debt ratio will be 1.9 billion euros next year, 9.3% of GDP, which is less than this year. Without the accounting impact of the EFSF, this debt would be 6.9% of GDP. Growth and prosperity depend on government decision-making in principle. We have confirmed our willingness to keep tax policy with growth-friendly, simple and few exceptions. The tax structure reflects a reduction in labour taxation, compensated by anti-tax avoidance measures, a reduction in inefficient exemptions and taxation of consumption with harmful side effects. The total tax burden remains at 32.7% of GDP, as it is this year. More money will be available to recipients: unemployment insurance rates will fall from 3% to 2.4%, income tax rates from 21% to 20%, and tax-free income will increase from EUR 144 to EUR 154 per month. A growth-friendly tax structure will make Estonia's economic environment better, and the state will ensure a fairer competitive environment for entrepreneurs next year. Tax payments are made easier by the IT solutions that are being created. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will now introduce the revenue and expenditure planned by the state. In the coming year, the country will be using EUR 8.445 billion. This is 7% more than expected this year. Tax revenue will increase by 6.1% compared to this year's projected revenue. Non-tax revenues are increasing as subsidies from the new period of the European Union can start to be used. The total amount of external support in the budget will increase to EUR 1 billion and will be 11.8% of the budget. The cost of the state budget will increase by 487 million euros in 2015 compared to this year, reaching 8.54 billion euros. A large part of the budget expenditure goes to the social sector next year. Improve the lives of families with children and the elderly, increase pensions and benefits. Compared to this year, public pension costs will increase by 100.5 million euros, while family benefits will increase by 77.6 million euros. Most of this is going to be an increase in universal child support, but there is also an increase in needs-based child support. The percentage increase in pensions is 5.9%. The average old-age pension increases from EUR 354 to EUR 374 for people with 44 years of age, and the pension exemption rate also increases so that the average pension remains exempt. Support for the first and second children will increase from €19.18 to €45 at the beginning of the year. For families that need more support, an additional EUR 45 will be needed, with a total of EUR 90 for the first and the second child. The third child's allowance will rise from EUR 76,7 to EUR 100. The allowance for a child in custody or family care will increase from EUR 191.8 to EUR 240 per month, i.e. by a quarter. Its aim is to direct more children to families instead of a replacement home. Free school meals will continue to be offered to upper secondary school students and 22,500 students will receive hot meals, costing 137 euros a year per child. The 1800 doctoral students of the universities receive social guarantees. The state pays 50% of the salary plus taxes for 1200 trainers working with young people. The wage fund for public earners will grow by at least 3% next year. More than average, at least 4.5%, this increase is for teachers and social, cultural and security workers. But, of course, the administration is making an effort to increase this percentage by means of restructuring. The state and municipalities must offer their services more efficiently. The population is ageing and the number of working age is decreasing. The share of government employees must not increase. Several reforms will be completed in 2015 to provide more efficient public services. The reform of the judiciary is coming to an end for better law enforcement. EUR 2.2 million has been allocated for the ambulance reform. Seven ambulance brigades are added. Public support services reach the common roof: accounting, staffing, wage accounting and real estate management. The real estate reform will, of course, make real estate management more sustainable, its use more economical and energy efficient. We're selling extra real estate. 102 agencies are involved in the centralisation of support services. They use integrated economic software with e-invoices and self-service-based e-services. The budget for the coming year will ensure Estonia's security. The cost of national defence will increase to EUR 29 million, to EUR 412 million. This is 2.05% of GDP, or more than the level agreed in NATO. Major purchases of infantry combat machinery and anti-tank systems are planned, the construction of Ämari air base and the development of radar network continue. The presence of the Allied forces in Estonia has been decided to cover additional expenditure. Internal security funding will increase by EUR 21 million next year, even though some investments will stop. I have a proposal to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, although the completion of the border started already this year, there would be a wish to add a few million more to the amount of the coming year. Internal security buildings will be invested with 11 million euros via the RKAS, and the Piusa border guard cordon will receive 5.6 million euros. The wages of those responsible for security, as has been said, are growing prematurely. The creation of more jobs will certainly work for the economy and security. One good example is the Narva Industrial Park: an additional EUR 300000 promises to increase private investment by EUR 27 million and jobs should be added to 600. With next year's budget, we have wanted to inspire confidence in both people and the economic environment. All things for defence and internal security are far from limited to a few ministries' budgets; in fact, there are changes in the entire government sector within the limits of the available budget. More broadly, security is also a guarantee of people's livelihood. I cannot fail to stress the security implications of finance. Only a well-managed and self-sufficient country can provide its people with protection and stability. I very much hope that all political parties want to continue with a responsible fiscal policy, regardless of the government. I would like to conclude by thanking all those involved in the preparation of the budget and wish the Riigikogu the strength to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U140	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The first questioner is Lembit Kaljuvee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question is about the revenue side of the budget. As we know, the Minister for the Environment, together with the oil shale sector leaders, is currently negotiating what environmental charges will be next year and beyond. They're talking about a 5% increase next year. The local people are dissatisfied with this rise, both on the streets and at meetings. What about budget revenue, is this 5% increase in environmental charges already included in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U142	Thank you. The forecast of environmental charges complies with the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U143	Thank you. Please, Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U144	Good minister! I will take this draft law on the state budget with an explanatory statement, and I must admit that this document is neither readable nor understandable. I will learn about the draft budget for groups of budget lines, types, accounts, objects, COFOG, limits, accounting resources, transferable taxes and many more other accounting abracadabra. I think it's an accountant's dream or a dream. The explanatory memorandum doesn't help much either. We cannot learn from this document how much money will be spent, for example, on the construction and maintenance of roads or on research and development, not to mention what the taxpayer will receive in return for all of this. Good minister! When will Estonia receive a readable budget, drawn up on an operational and performance basis, which would be understandable for every compatriot?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U145	Thank you. We're moving that way. But, of course, it is a great disappointment to hear from the Minister just now that the state budget is not as exciting as fiction that there will be no simple answers. Of course, it is particularly difficult for me to reject the accusation in any way, even though it has been presented for years that the country is engaged in accounting. Real shame, I'm ashamed! It's so bad when the Minister of Finance is told he's an accountant. Really! I'll try something different from here on out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U146	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U147	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that more than two thirds of people's electricity bill consists of network charges, excise duty and all other taxes. When network charges have been repeatedly raised, especially for the core network, the reason is still EstLink 1, EstLink 2, reserve station, etc. It is promised that when investments are made, taxes will be reduced. Look at the miracle, I now find on the revenue side that 20 million euros of the dividend will be withdrawn from Elering instead of being taxed. Are all investments really made, or is it going to be EUR 20 million to cover the tax cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U148	Thank you. At first it sounded like a very interesting idea of the price of electricity. So would you like to price each electron separately? Delivering electricity to the consumer will inevitably cost, inter alia, reducing environmental damage and building networks. But Elering or any other public enterprise will not receive a dividend in such a way that development will suffer. In any case, it is guaranteed that the plan will be completed and the owner will also receive the proceeds according to the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U149	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your presentation, giving an overview of the budget, you mentioned that the important aim is to keep balance, and secondly, you said that it is wrong to claim that Estonia is borrowing to cover current expenditure. Looking at this year's budget and compared to next year's budget, we see that the revenue side will increase by 7%, from almost EUR 8 billion to EUR 8.5 billion. What is the reason for this increase in revenue that we are actually under EUR 100 million next year? I mean nominal or real minus. Consequently, I have another question. What are you going to cover this minus for when you said you weren't taking a loan? Is this happening at the expense of reserves or what financial resources are still possible here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U151	Thank you. You caught two sentences of my speech and more or less correctly, but I had a lot more sentences. I explained, among other things, that we are structurally in surplus and that the nominal deficit is due to one-off factors. I've mentioned two factors. One is the temporary increase in the contribution of the second pillar, if you could say so. You know that well. Another major factor is the reflection of investments in CO2 quota sales in a year different from those in CO2 quota sales; in 2015, we will have more of a cost here. These two factors cover its nominal deficit. But you also know, of course, that the nominal deficit is of secondary importance for the calculation of the structural balance. In the case of a poor economy, which we certainly believe is now, the nominal deficit is also even desirable in fiscal terms. We are trying to minimise this, but the country must certainly alleviate the unpleasantness of society in poor circumstances, not reduce mitigation with the economy. There are limits. We stick to them very carefully, and the nominal deficit is actually not worth talking about in percentage terms. As I mentioned, in 2016 there is forecast to be an increase in the number of elections, the consequences of which are difficult to predict the nominal surplus. With which we cover this modest deficit, it is a matter of a specific decision. The Riigikogu grants us a credit limit with a budget, but are we using it? We have a very cheap credit line in the European Investment Bank with which we, to some extent, co-finance European investment projects. So we are not necessarily forced to use only reserves, but this decision will be made on the basis of practical needs. No tax or cost estimate is quite accurate either if it is checked ex post at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U152	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U153	Thank you, manager. Minister of Finance! I think the nominal deficit would be greater if we had included all the vital expenditure in the budget. For example, if so little money has been allocated to the border, it may seem to balance the budget, but the problem is big and money must be found there. Another example: cutting the road money. As far as I know, it was cut by more than 25 million euros. In my opinion, however, the most important thing is that the Estonian state will not find another extra money for farmers paid by other countries of the European Union that are allowed to pay these allowances, including Latvia and Lithuania. No money was found this year and no money was found next year. The amount is EUR 23 million. Don't talk like the Prime Minister about the European Union giving money. The European Union also gives money to Latvia and Lithuania. We are talking about equal competition in the European Union market. So how are our farmers supposed to cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U154	Thank you. The basic argument, rhetorical, I think, was that if we spent more, our deficit would be greater. It's true. It is not true that the money for road maintenance has been cut, but it is going to increase by EUR 5 million. There were other claims. How's the farmer doing? The most important thing for a farmer, of course, is that he can sell at a decent price. I think that the biggest aid can be given by the country now if we manage to open up new markets for dairy products. Work has been done on this, and there are interesting developments that are too early to talk about. This little extra money doesn't really solve the problems in the long run. Rather, the sector must always adapt to market opportunities rather than simply pay off something that does not need to be paid. But, of course, I understand the great tension of farmers. After relatively good times since the beginning of this year, their situation is bad. Well, it's always budgetary choices to make an advantage of it, isn't it? I am pleased that the Minister for Agriculture has accepted the agreements of the government coalition, he is not solenizing. The priorities were different, and the money went to things that the government thought were nobler and more important. Next time you can look at things differently, maybe priorities change. It was a collective decision of the government, and it was not the biggest issue in the disputes between the budget and the coalition agreement. I think it was the right thing to do in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U155	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U156	Thank you. Dear Minister, Estonia is a member of both the OECD and the European Union. Both organisations make recommendations to their Member States on their tax policy and fiscal policy, the OECD simply to share its best practice, and the European Union is increasingly and more being a formal reviewer. Has our draft budget for next year been drawn up in accordance with the recommendations of these organisations? What was the European Commission's assessment of this budgetary plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U157	Thank you. The draft budget has not yet been formally evaluated by the European Commission, but certainly, if it looks at it in the context, even if it is critical, it cannot count Estonia as one of the countries where there are problems. Our fiscal and tax policies are very closely following international recommendations. I am extremely pleased that what is currently happening with taxes is moving in the direction recommended by the OECD in particular, but also recommended by the European Commission and the IMF. The OECD has the highest authority in the field of taxation. Our taxes on labour will decrease, tax exemptions will also decrease, and taxation of harmful consumption will increase. It's like these changes were made according to a model. You gotta be happy. In particular, we must be satisfied that we have the hope of getting substantial additional money to the budget without raising tax rates by means of tax avoidance and anti-fraud measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U158	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The new employers' manifesto contains one proposal for exemption from the special preferential tax. How much could the state budget count for this next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U160	I don't know. A tax such as the special incentive tax does not exist. In Estonia, social and income tax is applied to wage income. Throughout the ages, there has been a desire for natural wages to be somehow tax-enhancing. It's so nice to have paid for your hobbies and save the state. But these are very personal choices. If we were to start billing all personal choices to companies, this budget cost would be relatively difficult to predict. It would certainly tend to go to the tens of millions, because it is so advantageous not to pay more wages, but rather to pay for a gym ticket or a golf course ticket, or what these more expensive areas are, leaving the cheaper and healthier areas out of it. No, personal choices shouldn't be entered into a company account. This would also be socially extremely unequal, as two of the most prosperous decibels would benefit from it. This is, in my opinion, the statistically best proven 'company pensions', i.e. company contributions to the third pillar. Those who have a problem with access to such services will get nothing out of it; they will rather have a pay problem. In particular, however, wages are paid. When the salary is enough, they'll make sure they want more hobbies. It's a very common desire. Only the Riigikogu would have the confidence not to do things that weaken the protection of those in need and favour those who can manage themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U161	Thank you. I am not quite sure that it is included in the budget, but the Riigikogu and the ministries must always take such matters into account. Such high costs are planned in advance and not in the current budget or in the budget, but in the budget and the national budget strategy that is still unprepared. It's not like we have a bill in the process, here's the amount and swallow it. Unfortunately, neither the Riigikogu nor the government can do so with the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U162	Thank you. I didn't understand the last sentence, there was a logical error. Individual income tax itself is a labour tax; reducing it can go hand in hand with reducing labour taxes. However, I can assure you that in any tax dispute, I have not supported a further reduction in the rate of income tax; 20% is a very good tax rate. When you ask about the reduction of the tax rate and the abolition of the special preferential tax, you see, these are completely different things in economic policy. Tax rates in themselves are a question of the attractiveness of the economic environment, while the special advantage is a question of the opening-up of the tax system. If we lose the tax on natural wages by keeping it on the wage, personal property will be paid for by the company and the benefits will be spread much more unevenly than in the case of tax reductions. Nearly half of the people are tax payers, but people receiving special benefits are outnumbered. This is an exceptionally regressive result that you will achieve if you start paying for hobbies. A very small number of companies pay for hobbies. Most work hard to pay a decent wage; they do not pay for any luxurious hobbies. The more wealthy the company, the more luxurious the hobbies become. I see no reason for this to be done at the expense of the pension fund, the health insurance fund or the establishment of public sports facilities. We're always talking about sports. I do not understand whether sport entertainment is some kind of national mission to which one must make an endless contribution in order to ensure that social imbalances continue to increase. Pensioners, children, unemployed, and students can't get anything from companies and what's to be denied there, even the state machine will pay their wages in the flesh.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U163	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U164	Thank you. Dear Minister, At the beginning of the summer, the coalition supported the decoupling of road funding from fuel excise. How has this step affected the financing of roads next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U165	Thank you. Right now, it looks positive. Road funding will increase by EUR 5 million. Life is getting more beautiful and fun, as the classic has said.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U166	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U167	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Neither your party nor your coalition partner supports administrative reform, but you have been in favour of voluntary municipal mergers. You have said that it would be reasonable to increase incentives or bonuses for local governments to join. What amount have you planned in next year's budget to support the merger of municipalities and how many municipalities are already joining?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U168	Thank you. This is a little far from me. I don't have the statistics right now. But the introduction was far from the truth. Administrative reform is supported in one way or another, I think, by almost all political parties, but certainly mine. I don't know about your party. It's hard to identify your position at all. But if you put the Riigikogu to a vote now, who agrees that the municipalities will be merged in accordance with unknown rules, then I think the votes against would be overwhelming. I do not think that in the IRL, too, if people could vote secretly, there would be such enthusiasm, even though among them the voice of the reform has been the strongest and their regional minister has been the most vocal, claiming that there must be 20000 inhabitants in the medium area. The perceptions of who joins or how large a rural municipality could be viable are very different. We do not have the kind of thing that could be called administrative reform and there are two answers, either in favour or against. There are a lot of answers, and there are a lot of respondents.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U169	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the Narva border crossing. First of all, I would like to clarify whether I understood what you said correctly, that the issue of financial cover for customs has not yet been discussed or put in place in the budget in the current reconstruction. Is that an open question? But my main question also relates to this point. Reconstruction is underway, on the other hand, the border guards will be laid off. The border load has increased two or three times in some areas. The situation is tense. Is it foreseen that the salaries of customs and border guards will be increased due to this burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U171	Yes, it is. But I didn't really understand the increase in load. At the border, the burden has been drastically reduced since anti-tax fraud measures were taken. There are no border queues. It's a busy job at the border crossing. It's just that the sequel is uncovered. We're trying to figure out how to handle this right now. I guess there's a lot of trouble going on. I thought it was about the price, the price went up.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U172	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The R &amp; D funds will fall by EUR 9 million next year according to this budget. What is the reason for this decrease? Today, research institutions have created a very good environment for using new equipment and building new buildings. Why is this fall so great, nine million euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U174	Thank you. This is a critical time, and European funds have not yet actually opened up. Here's my stamp. But I would be happy to delegate this issue to the Minister for Education and Research. It is certainly a cause for concern if such a tendency exists, but there is also a connection here with the change in the structure of the money coming from Europe. As far as I know, infrastructure investments are falling, but this issue should be dealt with in a more substantive way.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U175	Thank you. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U176	Thank you. Uh-huh! The problem was the last sentence I misunderstood. But I answered the first part of the question. I can make it clear that lowering the tax rate is an elementary recommendation of the OECD's growth-friendly tax model, i.e. the tax model of a competitive country. They recommend less taxation on investment and labour. Since we are already doing quite well with the non-taxation of investments, the reduction in labour taxes, including the reduction in income tax, has been a move in the right direction. If we were to continue at 26%, our economy would certainly be in a worse position than it is now. A significant increase in the tax-free minimum is in my party's electoral programme. It has also been my wish to do so already in this electoral cycle, and I strongly support it. However, this must not go too far, as one part of democracy is still a tax contribution. It cannot quite be done that the people are divided into taxpayers and non-taxpayers, but they all vote the same way. In fact, there could be more involvement in the tax system and bias or bias should rather be expressed in the distribution of money. We cannot talk about a tax-free minimum of EUR 500. I would argue that this would lead to a split between our salary levels, where very few would pay tax. I do not think it is democratic to build a tax system in this way. But the low tax rate and the considerable tax-free minimum are certainly things that are very well suited to income tax. It was also in the coalition agreement when you were still in the coalition. Sorry, that's where it left off! It was in our election programme that a reduction in the rate of income tax should go hand in hand with an increase in the tax-free minimum. Each party had its own priorities, and it turned out that the increase in the tax-free minimum remained for the last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U177	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U178	Thank you. I look in the budget with concern at the lines of support for the preservation of cultural heritage and the Heritage Board, where the amounts have decreased. When the Ministry of Culture conducted a long and thorough survey among the owners of the sites, it turned out that the lack of public funding is a major concern for the people. In general, cultural funding is either increasing or maintaining the same level, but it is striking that both lines of cultural heritage support are falling. Can you explain what this is about? Is there any way to stop this downward trend or make it positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U179	Thank you. I am listening to you, and I am surprised that, despite your political background, you can only talk about increasing costs, not better sharing them. During the debate on the previous item, you found some places where the country had not spent enough, and then you complained that there would also be no tax relief. Your wish was such a national double funding. Culture is in a situation where it is highly inappropriate to talk about reducing funding when the budget grows by 19.7%. Estonia already spends almost more on culture, on average almost twice as much on other European countries. I'm not saying it's wrong. But in these circumstances, though, finding a line that doesn't increase is quite resourceful. I'm sure the Minister of Culture will explain this. I suppose if there's a reduction, there's a pretty specific explanation. Very often, the reduction is due to the closure of a project, but in this case, I really do not know the answer. I'm used to getting criticism from that line about why so much money is being allocated to culture again. Tõnis Palts is not present, but I have read and heard from both the Internet that so much money goes to culture and the current cultural policy is somehow reformist and very spendable. Rather, help to shift these sums and tell me what to take away! Don't ask me all the time why not all the sums are growing more than the average!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U180	Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's kind of uncomfortable for you to be there. We're trying to help you. In order to help, however, there must be basic material and information. That's why we're asking our questions now. Looking at the state budget procedure for next year, it can be seen that this is, in fact, to some extent a reflection of the spring agreements. In the spring we saw that the new agreements increased the various support mechanisms. In order to find cover for this, certain changes were made, revenue was increased and expenditure deferred, starting with the increase in gas excise duty and ending with the deferral of parental pension for certain years. That's how the revenue base comes. Here's my question. A little confusing is your message base. On the one hand, you are talking about necessity and on the other, about reality. What is the current situation in the context of redistribution and continuous increase of subsidies? Is this your new handwriting, or is this just a temporary situation? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U182	Thank you, Mr. Sester. I wish you more courage. Tell me what you want to change. In fact, these debates have already been held in this Chamber and the decisions have been written into the law. At this stage, yet to blame... Are you complaining about an increase in child benefits? Yes, I may be the only politician who has said that I would not have increased universal child support so suddenly. As a result, many other lines are losing the budget. The thing is, if you divide everyone equally, someone's gonna lose something very clearly. I would have preferred a more need-based approach, and I am not ashamed to say it. But I'm also not ashamed to say that in a coalition government, the wishes of a partner must be respected. You have to respect me! We must congratulate them and say that, of course, we also have those in the party who consider this to be a very good solution. Our child benefits are at Finnish level. Finland cut them. Now we just need to keep thinking that we shouldn't go over-offering again because of the elections, that we are going to raise more, because we didn't do anything. Rather, the distribution of money could be more accurate, I have always defended it. In the case of children, this is more about providing services, least certainly tax relief and most about financing services. The universal child benefit is out there somewhere in the meantime. The family is still the first to be responsible for the child. It is up to the state to take care of the general possibilities of developing the child and to work as little as possible as a money machine, who will be paid in and then give everyone equal return.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U183	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U184	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U185	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U186	Thank you. Minister of Finance! During the summer, the coalition adopted a number of legislative changes that provided for tax increases. They have now helped the revenue side of the budget to show growth. One of these increases was predicted to be a 37% increase in heating costs in households where light fuel oil is used as heating. During the summer, you did not know how to compensate these households. You said you were smarter in the third quarter. Where can this compensation mechanism be found in the budget, and what amounts are planned to mitigate the price increase for these households?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U187	Thank you. This is probably the full measure of KredEx. I've been coordinating it quite freshly. Where's the money going? It is used to replace expensive heating with more economical. In any case, both the boiler owner and the State and the environment will win. We do not need to subsidise expensive and environmentally burdensome types of heating through tax incentives. I think that this was a very sensible structural reform, which the previous government considered reasonable, with this measure just took more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U188	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U189	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, After all, the state budget is like a large state pie, which has already been distributed a priori in a large part because of fixed costs. It must also be taken into account that next year is an election year. I think it is important that the country thinks strategically, apart from tactical thinking. Does this budget support a new strategic objective that promotes one country's economy? If so, can you tell me which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U190	Thank you. It supports all objectives. What do you mean by a strategic objective? In itself, the country has strategic development plans, all of which are reflected in this budget. What matters most to you right now is that it's very difficult for me to understand. One plan, of course, is the strategic plan that you yourself mentioned that next year there will be elections. They have also been financed from the budget, but I do not approve of this rhetoric as if it were somehow the budget for the election year. No, it's not. Yes, there will be elections in 2015, as most of the years do. It would be an election-oriented budget if it were in deficit. In essence, this budget is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U191	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U192	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In recent years, attempts have been made to give the impression that local authorities are somehow orphan in relation to the growth of the state budget. Can you highlight the dynamics of the local governments' revenue base in the context of the budget for next year? Is that the opinion right or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U193	Thank you. I wouldn't want to discuss the press in the budgetary context. There's no way that's gonna relate to the budget. Nothing! So I'm sorry! But to the press, I've given my brief comments. I can only repeat them, but not within this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U194	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U195	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I want to congratulate the government on the increase in resources on internal security and defence issues. This is certainly particularly important at the moment. But I will come to your introductory speech. You mentioned that during the budgetary process, there are plans to add some millions of euros to build the eastern border of Estonia. You might be a little more specific about how many million or how much money we're talking about. What should it be added to the budget for?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U196	Thank you. Millions have already been spent in the Ministry of the Interior, which has not changed this year's budget, and this process will continue. The most critical issue is the clearing of the border goal. We will do that, if I may say so, extra-budgetly, with the resources of the State Forest Management Centre. This money is not included in the budget. Already EUR 0.9 million was added to the budget, and my proposal is to add at least EUR 3 million. It is very difficult to change something in a closed budget. But if there is a target and 0.9 million euros to get the cameras, it will allow the border to be monitored. We're not going to build a Chinese wall there. What are these exact projects? If I look at this draft budget that has ever been put on paper according to some kind of research, I'm going to scratch my head a little bit, because it's not clear if these things really cost that much, especially given that cleaning the border point tends to look cost-free in essence. I am not an immediate curator of this area, but we may not have to pay anything to the State Forest Management Centre. There are questions here with private countries again. Personally, what bothers me most is the last-minute discovery that this whole project has been left out of the picture, and this is not a complaint to the previous Minister of the Interior for the reproach he made for the investment at the Narva border crossing point. The Ministry of the Interior has not taken into account customs needs, but it is also part of the construction of the border. This amount amounts to around EUR 8.8 million. The problem is pretty big. But I don't want to believe that this is 26 million, not even for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U197	Please, Mikhail Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U198	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! The question concerns the income base of the local government and the share of personal income tax allocated specifically to the local government. This part was reduced during the recession and not the amount, but the percentage allocated to the municipality was reduced. For several years, this percentage has not changed. The income base of local governments is currently increasing in amounts, but this percentage remains at the same level. For what reason is such an attitude toward local governments? Aren't you planning on raising that percentage in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U199	Thank you. As I said, increasing this percentage is counterproductive in regional policy. It brings together money in Tallinn and the golden circle and takes it away from the poorer municipalities. No, I'm not in favour of that. I am in favour of increasing the compensatory fund, which once again has its own opponents. For reasons that I cannot understand, no consensus has been found or found in the previous government. So if you're wondering if anyone took the money from the local governments, they still took the money away. The government did not make a mistake when, during the recession, it went to correct its former dreams and helped finance return to reality, but it was a mistake that we once increased that percentage. By reducing the rate of income tax and increasing the tax-free minimum, the state took on the burden. I mean the central government. This does not make sense, because the citizens who pay income tax are residents of both the state and the municipality at the same time. It could have been more reasonable. One minute this process just ran off, and it ran out. In my opinion, this correction was necessary and it does not really need to be corrected. Rather, the municipalities, as I said, should be given greater autonomy in the case of land tax. It's really a local thing. Earth can't be written in by clicking on a computer, land is where it is. It is also the safest tax in terms of the economic environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U200	Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the case of the so-called special preferential tax, you are concerned that perhaps the most prosperous decidals will win this opt-out. At the same time, your long-term idea of reducing personal income tax will leave more money in the hands of those who receive more income. The small scale of the coalition's increase in the tax-free minimum is still a laughing stock. How do you explain this contradiction? Would you also explain how you think the Estonian tax system could develop in the coming years? Can a reduction in the personal income tax rate go hand in hand with a decisive reduction in labour taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U202	Thank you. Dear Minister, Indeed, R &amp; D funding is decreasing. As you have said many times, the priority of the current government is not rural and agricultural either. But my question concerns the line of reference which has been mistakenly referred to several times as a border in this Chamber. In the Committee on Finance, the Minister of the Interior stated that the cleaning of the brush cutting and the cleaning of the control line is done by the State Forest Management Centre free of charge. Here's my question. If we have such a free work practice, why, for example, is it not expanded to keep the trunk taps off the country roads clean? The State Forest Management Centre could do all this for free. Is it really true that such things are done in Estonia free of charge and that the "perpetum" has been invented for mobiles? Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U203	Thank you. You have certainly misunderstood, with a lot of things, some of which you have mentioned. As far as the priority of agriculture is concerned, agriculture was certainly not the priority of the previous government either. Our heart is open to farmers in the previous government, but the only one who fought this year's budget for the extra amounts of direct payments was you. You were completely alone in your party, I remember that, and you expressed a difference of opinion. This is no surprise. Strategically, there always seems to be something else left behind in the government, not necessarily additional grants. After all, we fought for more subsidies, the amount of subsidies is increasing, but there was a problem with the additional grants, both in this and in the previous government. For a border, I have a small and a little premature clue. I have no confirmation from the Minister of the Interior of what I think I know and what he agreed with at the beginning. The State Forest Management Centre can do free of charge work that creates timber material. Well, I'm sure you don't send wood to maintain ditches, but when you clean the border goal, there's gonna be salesable stuff. This is the place where basically a free chance comes in handy. Now for the subject of science. I reaffirm because I found this line on paper that some reduction in 2015 is indeed due to the delay in opening up European funds. 2014 has been a transitional year, and 2015 is also part of it, there is nothing to be surprised about. However, EUR 9.3 million is earmarked for basic funding for R &amp; D institutions, with an increase of EUR 800 million, or 9.4%. It cannot be said that this area is not a priority; its growth is well above the average increase in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U204	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U205	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all, thank you for your previous answer. A little surprised that Tallinn and the so-called Golden Circle, as you called it, have a special treatment. But the Local Government Equalisation Fund will grow by less than 1% next year. There's no way to call it a very big growth. However, my question concerns the possibilities of a local government revenue base. I understand that you have a positive view that the local government could earn a little more itself, but the possibilities of local government (taxation and earning opportunities) are now almost zero. Do you ever see the possibility of reform in this area? Could you add another serious tax or source of income to the boat tax or dog tax, which would also stimulate the expansion of the local government's income base?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U206	I assure you that I will treat Tallinn differently from other regions and also the golden circle. First because I live here, and second because my first higher education is in the field of geography. I mean spatially all the time. I have lived in different parts of Estonia and I can assure you that compared to Tartu or Saaremaa, Tallinn's additional need for money is non-existent. It would be very cynical to make such redistributions, the most winning of which is Tallinn and its wealthy surroundings. Very cynical! There's no need to do such a thing! This was done once, and now the rest of Estonia pays off Tallinn's most expensive plots. That doesn't make any sense. In my opinion, it would be most natural to extend the tax base of municipalities to land tax autonomy so that the municipalities can choose to a greater extent, which is the coefficient of that tax. This is particularly important because the tax price is now changing automatically. It can sometimes get very high, and it must certainly be given the opportunity to alleviate this burden. Secondly, the municipality should be able to decide for itself what exemptions it makes. What has been subject to land tax, not only in recent years, but longer, does not make sense. Land tax is a very logical tax and the OECD urges us to do so. As far as I am aware, the next OECD Recommendation explicitly provides for a correction of errors. We're told to change what we did a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U207	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U208	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna go a little further from another angle on the land tax issue. As we know, the state has so far freed land from land tax and has also released land tax on state land, i.e. land tax is not collected by the municipalities. If the municipality has asked where that amount is, then the central authority has said that it will receive it from the Equalisation Fund. However, this amount is not seen by the municipalities. Moreover, we now have, fortunately or unfortunately, municipalities that do not receive support from the Equalisation Fund. Will this injustice be eliminated with the 2015 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U209	Thank you. So what kind of injustice were you talking about? Is it unfair that someone has a beautiful piece of land? Who's the culprit here, and who's the victim? I'm saying there's no victim or perpetrator. The country does not really have such a wallet so that it can only claim claims and talk about injustice. Municipalities are not the largest social risk group; however, they have different kinds of problems than the fact that the state does not give money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U210	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U211	Thank you. Our most general plan, however, is that we're based on structural balance, we don't live from party to mouth. We're looking at the economic cycle. If the economic situation deteriorates, a nominal minus or increase is not excluded. There's no panic in this case. You mentioned one thing, the VAT on cars. This is an exciting subject, but you also mentioned exports there. To be honest, how can the development of the export industry be helped by the fact that expensive cars are bought specifically in companies, that companies are overburdened and that taxes are not paid in the budget? Surely this is not an export-oriented tax credit, which we will still have 50%, unlike most European countries. Everything is part of a big plan. We need to build a tax system, we need to build a budget system, we need not have any sudden reactions to events. We've been able to do this so far, and with your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U212	Thank you. The question was about the income base of local governments. The most important thing is that income tax receipts will increase by 6%. I myself have always been of the opinion that local governments should be given autonomy in terms of land tax. It is a very local and very natural tax and, from an economic point of view, the most sensible tax, because it is a limited resource. But unfortunately, one mistake has been made here and the municipal income base has decreased. The 6% increase in income tax is again the average that certainly does not adequately describe the regional picture. That is why I have always been of the opinion that, in fact, the municipal income base should be more aligned with the Equalisation Fund and not increase the income tax percentage from which Tallinn and its richest neighbouring municipalities take away two thirds. But the answer has always been that then we will not be able to make administrative reform and support too many poor governments, preventing them from joining. The consensus is behind it. In my opinion, the smoothing effect, not its concentration in Tallinn, could still be important in the case of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U213	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U214	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question relates to local roads. Some time ago, this plan for 2020 was approved in this Chamber. There was a debate on the roads that are in the municipality's administrative territory, but which are of international importance. They carry larger trucks, buses and, of course, smaller vehicles, so that the load on these roads is quite high. In no way did I find in the draft budget the figures for state support for these roads. Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U215	Thank you. The road development plan is something which the government confirms and on which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications would certainly provide better answers. If you mean locally owned roads, this amount has not decreased. That's, if I'm wrong, a total of 28.6 million euros. I don't know how to share it like you asked, i.e. by where the international cargo is moving. But above all, these are national routes. To sum up, the road savings money will not decrease next year, but will increase. There are problems with this, of course, such as Narva and Põlva. Large trucks that carry international transports will certainly disturb and burden our traffic more than they contribute here. It would actually make sense for them to be taxed, but we do not currently have a solution that would not place a double burden on local cars. Here are European rules. Heavy duty is compulsory by the directive, but it can be applied to local cars. If we were to introduce some kind of separate tax on large cars, it would join the existing one, and our carriers would once again have an additional burden, whatever they want. But I think the Minister for Economic Affairs could provide more meaningful answers on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U216	Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The government promised, in the event of the loss of specially labelled fuel, that next year's budget would find the means of compensating for the conversion of heating monsters in households. You can't find that specific amount when you're reading the budget. Can you tell me how much this is?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U218	Thank you. I don't dare say the exact amount. I have already answered this question once so that it should be searched from the budget of KredEx. This is again the budget of the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is certainly not about paying off structural reform. It would be very silly to do something environmentally friendly and pay for it. This is co-financing so that users of expensive types of heating can adopt a more economical and environmentally friendly form of heating. I'm afraid I can't find the exact amount. If I do, I'll tell you. Until then, the next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U219	Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U220	Good manager! Dear Minister, I come back to the question of Tarmo Tamme and your answer to the support of farmers. You said that this issue did not receive much discussion in the government. Can it be understood that the Reform Party has agreed with the Social Democrats that the Social Democrats will receive an increase in child support, but this is essentially at the expense of the farmers' transitional support?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U221	Thank you. If you have this connection, you can put it this way. Overall, the budget has much more expenditure than the two. However, when it comes to the priorities of the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement did not really have a separate issue of agricultural subsidies, but a very ambitious and steep increase in child support was foreseen. If you wish to challenge it, the Riigikogu can discuss it. A reduction in labour taxes was also agreed, which meets all the recommendations on our tax system. We really did not have much to put aside there, but various social measures are also being added. In fact, farmers' direct payments will increase by EUR 11 million. Or was it 11%? There will be no reduction in subsidies; they will increase. I myself have contributed to making the European budget more favourable to us in this area, and I have also obtained results. So I have no shame because of direct payments. I think I've done more than I could have expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U222	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a specific question. There have always been a number of draft tax increases which have still been pending but which have already been included in the budget. This year, these tax increases were made in spring. However, there is now a reverse draft that provides for accession to EUROCONTROL in order to strengthen cooperation in the area of air traffic safety. This year's membership fee is slightly less than EUR 800000. I couldn't find the place in the budget. Has it not been taken into account, or will there be an opportunity to pay it afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U224	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I apologise in advance that my question does not concern the amounts of the state budget, but the strategic objectives of the Ministry of Finance. One objective is to promote a sound financial environment. For this purpose, a Financial Supervision Authority has been set up to contribute to increasing the efficiency and credibility of the Estonian financial sector. The news came today that the former head of the Financial Supervision Authority has offered its services to the Moscow bank. He claimed that he had information that he had previously received for this purpose. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U225	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Unlike perhaps many members of the Riigikogu, I have always taken a high level of respect and recognised those who make the budget. As a private entrepreneur, I know that money is too little all the time and it will never be possible to share it so that everyone is happy. Given that the Sots are in the government, you have made a very good budget. Defence costs do not decrease, but increase. In fact, some normal and reasonable things about the livelihoods of people, especially children, were solved by the sexes. The budget will show a 6% increase next year. Yes, some of the tax rulings that were made in order for the budget to be implemented were inconvenient and cannot be accepted by all of them. But I am interested in what, however, is based on the notion that this 6% can become a reality because, in fact, macroeconomic conditions around us are deteriorating.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U226	Thank you. It is awkward to hear compliments, especially from the opposition's ranks. Almost everyone was uncomfortable, as I saw here: your groupmates, all of you on the social side. But anyway, thank you. This is, of course, another independent forecast. Independence is an exciting argument, but the Minister of Finance hasn't written anything yet. However, his attitude can be seen in his sense of administration, and it is wise to be cautious. We keep comparing the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and other institutions. We are also doing this on a compulsory basis, because the European Commission obliges us to send out our draft budget and review our forecasts, and there are the IMF and the OECD as separate forecasters. Eesti Pank is also always attentive. We now have an independent fiscal council led by Professor Eamets of the University of Tartu. They, too, have said that income growth is adequate. In terms of income growth, of course, taxes and non-tax revenues must be viewed separately, the latter being more volatile. Surely we must not only look at nominal growth. A very important factor here is the defiator and a structural picture of where exactly tax revenues come from is also very important. In some areas, they come more, such as domestic consumption, less than some, such as exports, some more labour-intensive areas, some less. I do not think we have had any problems with the reliability of the forecasts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U227	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U228	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Security should be one of the priorities of this draft state budget. Defense costs are increasing. This is positive and can be very pleased with it. But the internal security budget certainly cannot be satisfied if we are talking about borders and border guards, police and the Rescue Board. Every day more than 6,000 drunk drivers drive on Estonian roads, but in order for the police to start getting paid out of EUR 900, we must lay off the policemen. Why isn't there any more money for internal security? Secondly, you promised the border three million extra euros quickly. What sources do you find them from?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U229	First of all, this extra money will be a concrete proposal for you. As long as it's not finally agreed, I wouldn't want to shout the verbatim. But the Ministry of the Interior's budget itself will grow if we leave out some completed buildings. The Ministry of the Interior's wages are growing prematurely, but his internal decisions are not once again a matter that the government would dictate. You called the police. In my opinion, the new director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board has taken a very clear approach to making police work more effective and police officers better paid. Looking at wage dynamics, police wages are among the first to grow in the public sector. They have recently grown very powerfully, although this level is, of course, modest, especially in relation to the salaries of the people who have gathered in this hall. Of course, I'd like the police to get more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U230	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U231	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! You found it appropriate to allocate 78 cents a day to each school child. The local authorities considered that the child would not be eaten for this money; the most modest estimates are that 1 euro 30 cents would be needed. Local authorities pay extra money in their schools. But no one pays more in state high school, and there's 78 cents left for which the kid can't fill his stomach. Mr. Secretary of Finance, why do you leave high school students starving?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U232	Thank you. I don't know. For the first time, I hear that there is a famine in Estonia. After all, it is a great response when catering is financially supported. There's nothing unnatural about people paying for it themselves. This support is a great response, and it is certainly not practical in all cases. I'm always in favour of more need-based spending, not paying off everyone's food. If you can't do it more selectively, everyone gets less. That's the rule. But when they start offering free meals in high school and then they turn it on their suppliers, it's a little weird, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U233	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U234	Thank you. Dear Minister, Since the answer to the previous question went a little off the top of the question, I will specify. Why have you preferred to reduce personal income tax in the long term instead of making other tax cuts, such as lowering employers' taxes on labour? Is there a change in this ideology? Secondly, how do you feel about the possibility of increasing the tax-free minimum in the future, which would leave more money in the hands of the recipients of precisely smaller incomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U235	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I still don't want to pick on the lines and say sincerely that it's not easy to get these lines together. At the same time, we have made quite a lot of rapid occasional tax changes, I mean VAT on cars and other things. Our main export markets in Scandinavia and a little bit in Russia do not show any improvement. My question is still about the macro or the big picture. We want to keep revenue and expenditure more or less balanced, which is also perfectly stated in this budget. If it doesn't go as predicted, if there is no rise, but the costs are planned, is there a backup plan at the Ministry of Finance, which taxes should be changed quickly? What's going to change the liver? What's gonna happen? Is there a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U236	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U237	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My second question, however, is now based specifically on the budget lines and also on a conservative view of children's well-being. 9.5% of Estonian children up to 17 years of age live in absolute poverty, the target for next year is 7.7%. I will look at page 203 of the explanatory memorandum on other social benefits and benefits. The biggest decrease (43%) is spent on the cancellation of a student loan at the birth of a child and on paternity leave (22%). The biggest increase (240%) is in the number of funeral allowances. How can we assess the budget's child-friendliness?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U238	That's a very strange question, to be honest. We have massively allocated money for child benefits, but you will find some million line that has increased by 240%, and then you will compare and conclude. I don't know how to answer that. It's such a strange question. I mean, sizes are different. I don't understand how burying people harms children's interests. However, I can see that spending on children is going to increase massively, but the expenditure on funeral allowances in absolute terms only slightly. Where was the conservatism here? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U239	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U240	Thank you. Good performer! With an increase in excise duty on special-marked fuel, the State expects to earn more than EUR 3 million on the account of EVR Cargo. However, this change is expected to lead to a 15% reduction in the volume of goods, which, in turn, leads to a deficit instead of the millions expected for the budget. When the representatives of the Ministry of Finance were asked in the Committee on Economic Affairs whether the Ministry had made any more detailed calculations than the multiplications, it was said that the Ministry had not actually looked at the wider picture. They could not comment on this situation. Maybe you have a little more information. Is there any hope that this money will be paid into the budget, or is it, as we have unfortunately often done?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U241	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Karel Rüütli!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U242	Thank you. I'd like to see the person who made this forecast and check these figures. Moreover, I do not take as pure gold the fact that an official sitting in a corner has said exactly that. We're talking freight on the railroad. The very simple answer is that there is no such discount in Latvia. You, if I am not mistaken, are not involved in the Committee on the Environment, because as a member of the Committee on the Environment, you would not ask. Why should one industry be subsidised on the basis of the volume of fuel burning? It's always been incomprehensible logic. It was only right that we corrected it. We did the right thing by writing the same thing in the coalition agreement with your party. Its certain lines were simply not completed in time, there was a problem, but not a fundamental choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U243	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U244	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Today we had on the agenda an amendment to the pre-school institution law. One point we discussed was whether it would be possible to equalise the cost of childcare with the cost of training, as is the case with kindergarten services. The Ministry of Social Affairs has approved this proposal and the Ministry of Finance has estimated that this is a relatively marginal cost, yet we were unable to accept this proposal today because of the coalition's votes against. Do you think it's reasonable that depending on where the door I go in with my child is different from the door of childcare or kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U245	Thank you. Dear Minister, During the budgetary procedure, were there any discussions on the disposal of parts of a public undertaking in order to obtain additional resources? For example, the same railway thematics that Tõnis have mentioned several times. When we're talking about EVR Cargo, a few years ago, the state company decided to ask for additional equipment for the wagons. Now all of these wagons are standing and ageing, and in a few years' time, the value of this company will certainly be several times lower than it is now. What is your personal assessment of whether the state should own such a company?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U246	Thank you. I don't think he should own this company. Its sale is likely to involve sensitive issues. But in the wider sense, of course, the status of wagons is not dependent on ownership or excise duties on fuel, but on what happens in Russia and Ukraine, and whether we want to support such trade in any way from the state budget. Today, however, it is a matter of the economic and security environment, not of excise duties on fuel. I recall that Latvia and, as far as I know, Lithuania do not have such a tax advantage, but nevertheless they are still able to cope somehow. One of their advantages is, of course, geographical. I don't think we should bet on the budget for the trains to run. We have another structural problem with rail: passenger transport is very much cross-subsidised through freight transport. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U247	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U248	Thank you. After all, these discussions have been quite heated; they have been held in several governments with ups and downs. According to the agreement so far, we will come back to this issue in November if there is an understandable concept. Just so we set off some kind of money and make a channel, these things don't work. But the government's final decision was to take the course to create this channel. An amount of EUR 390000 has already been allocated, I think, and additional applications are being critically examined. After all, we once made a second channel for Estonian Television with the idea that there will also be something for a Russian viewer. But yes, the views are very different, and with Russian propaganda, we still don't compete. Even if there is no subtitle-reading habit, the situation is more complicated. Are we really the kind of country that has one channel in Estonian and the other in Russian? It seems to be out of proportion again. In my opinion, we should not go to the other extreme, i.e. to make a purely Russian-speaking channel and thus divide Estonian and Russian viewers into two, although both could then be equally. There are many of these arguments, which have all come to light. But we'll come back to this issue in November according to the plans we've made so far. Then we'll see if there's anything else we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U249	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U250	Thank you. I'm sad that you, as a strong sportsman and minister of finance, are making such anti-sports and anti-healthy statements, and I'm sorry time hasn't changed you. You can't look at the bigger picture either. But that's it. I'm asking about rail transport. We want rail transport through Estonia to continue and we will benefit from it. There's the problem that freight transport has been subsidised by passenger transport. The price level is such that these trade flows, which are to be feared, will soon pass to other countries. Are there any sources of revenue available in the budget to subsidise this year-to-two so that another type of expenditure is reduced there?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U251	Thank you. I am afraid that this kind of subsidy even runs counter to competition law. But I don't know how to answer that. In any case, we are not in the habit of subsidising state companies from the budget. That introduction you did was pretty cynical. In my opinion, an honest sportsman has to admit that he doesn't need a state bailout. Those in this hall also have the opportunity to perform paid sports, but almost all people have free sports. Healthy sports usually don't cost anything. If we start making tax incentives for paid public sport, then more expensive areas will certainly be practiced, we will favour a more prosperous nation and there will be a great deal of manipulation. So, however, we leave personal and national choices separate, especially when it comes to sport. We don't have the kind of system you've earned your laurels by right. One thing is top sport, but everyone can do a crowd sport for free under the forest. Who can walk in the gym doesn't have to get an advantage at the expense of a health insurance fund or a pension fund. The sick, the retired, the students, the unemployed, these people face the problem of one-sided hobbies. It is therefore necessary for the state to contribute to publicly available matters, not to those where ticket money is collected. Sports facilities, health trails in Tallinn are almost ideal with them, but very poor in Tartu, where more money is needed. But it doesn't have to be that whoever goes to the expensive club gets more than the others. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U252	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U253	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Local authorities have proposed that the school food allowance be EUR 1.3. Clearly, the current 78 cents do not guarantee that school food is free. When you prepared the budget, did you even consider the possibility that school food support per student would rise to EUR 1?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U254	Oh, I would like to ask in return if you have ever considered any question in education policy other than that of giving free food. I say that there is no famine in Estonia. In fact, we should choose who we can give something for free, and if we can't choose, we have to accept that we give something for distribution. Anyone can propose to separate. It is up to us to review the financial opportunities and priorities and finally decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U255	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U256	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said you meant spatially. When you answered my previous question, you really were, like, somewhere else. But try to pull yourself together, overcome yourself and try to stay with the state budget, not the questioner's assessment, in answer to my question. My question is as follows. In spring, the Riigikogu passed the Act amending the University Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, the sole purpose of which was to finance additional veterinary training from the state budget, the same way that medical training is financed, which receives additional money through the Health Insurance Fund. Veterinary training cannot be financed through the Health Insurance Fund. However, the draft State Budget Act does not provide for any cents for this purpose either in the Ministry of Education and Research or in the line of the Ministry of Agriculture. Tell me why.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U257	Thank you. Well, at least you did judge me from where I was, that I was kind of away. In fact, I have been there, I have followed your and everyone else's questions closely, and if there has been a question about the event, I have also answered about the event, i.e. whether or not there has been a preference for something, a particular line. I've never been personal to you in this sense, and don't you be with me either. Veterinary training is financed in the same way as other higher education. I would, however, be careful to identify the human animal and the farm animal and to draw parallels with the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U258	Good manager! Good minister! We know that the last few months have been a crisis in the dairy sector, and this has been going on for a long time in pig farming. Has this been taken into account in the 2015 state budget, or is there funds for how to get out of the crisis if it goes on or gets worse? How can we still support producers so that they do not go bankrupt and pay taxes to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U259	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U260	Thank you. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has not made such an overview, nor has it made such an assessment. In general, government expenditure in Estonia is among the lowest in relation to other countries and in relation to GDP. If I'm right in the head, I think we're number three for their smallness. The assessment will also depend on the background system. If we take another Europe as a reference system, we will be able to maintain our country quite effectively in general. However, there are always places where efficiency can be increased. However, small costs do not always show the optimal picture or the most effective level, as a country with low costs may not be able to perform all functions very well. I think this whole thing needs a thorough analysis. A mere assessment of the cost component may not give an adequate picture. However, this issue has not been raised so far in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and we have not, in any way, assessed it or analysed it separately. Perhaps this proposal is for example for the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U261	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U262	Thank you. I do not quite agree that the efficient and sustainable spending of next year's budget should be a matter for the National Audit Office and should be excluded from the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As far as I know, the nominal increase in the state's general government expenditure should be close to 6% in the state budget. You said that this is one of the smallest compared to other European countries. Can you name countries where the nominal increase in the country's general government expenditure is even greater? Secondly, when you said that there were areas where there could be more sustainable, which areas did you mean? I am thinking of administration and bureaucracy of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U263	Thank you. They put words in my mouth that I didn't say a moment ago. I was talking about the costs of governance in the context of GDP, i.e. their absolute rate, not their growth. What is their growth? It depends on both GDP growth and overall budget growth. In those countries where GDP is growing more rapidly, the budget will also increase more rapidly and maybe the general government expenditure will also increase somewhat faster than in other countries. When I mentioned that Estonia is a country quite effectively managed compared to other Europe, I meant the share of general government expenditure in GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U264	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U265	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just heard what has taken place in the Riigikogu in processing the draft state budget law, from the moment the Prime Minister handed the budget over to us, until the state budget reached the Riigikogu Hall for the first reading. In short, several ministers have been able to present their individual projects. But no one has been very willing to talk about the big picture of how the state budget comes together. In recent years, percentage points of tax changes resemble accounting rather than the management of the state's tax policy. Instead of tax games, Estonia needs a comprehensive tax reform. The tax environment after tax reform must ensure the redistribution of income, motivate employment, encourage entrepreneurship and ensure an adequate income base for municipalities. But we note the fact that the Reform Party has been jammed in this regard. I noticed that a relatively fresh member of the Riigikogu, but Jaak Aaviksoo, who held the ministerial office for seven years, said that the draft state budget law was very difficult to read or, as the respected academician said, it is almost impossible to understand. However, if you do this with routine continuity, you can read this bill, but I have had the impression that I have read it before, as I have read the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget for several years. This year, just in case, I took away the explanatory memorandum to last year's draft state budget law and quote random findings. For example, the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. This year, it is stated that provision is made for the Estonian University of Life Sciences to pay the bank loan for the construction of the Märja cattle farm (EUR 320000) and for the practical training of veterinary medicine students (EUR 51129). A year ago, this paragraph sounded as if the Estonian University of Life Sciences had been given 51129 euros for the practical training of veterinary students and 320000 euros for the bank loan for the construction of the Märja cattle farm. The amounts fully match what might make sense when a bank loan is repaid, but the cost of training students sounds a little strange. At the same time, it is a pretty good example of how things are done the same year after year. This paragraph also reflects the policy of our current coalition: a lack of ideas, denying the need for change and living in our own bubble. While our Prime Minister is probably sitting in front of television on Sunday nights and watching a show on his face, many Estonian people, at the same time, are jumping towards the port looking at the bell. It is important for them to reach the last Finnish ship to start a new working week on an object somewhere in Central Finland. At the same time, they cannot swear that why they have not already taken their family, because it is difficult to be far away from the family, while the family needs to earn bread somewhere where there is work and a decent salary is paid. For many families, this place is Finland. This is the reality of Estonian rural families. The saddest thing is that the budget on the table today does nothing to improve their situation. Very simplistically, it does not bring decent wages to people in the state budget. It does not put teeth in the mouth of our needy people, nor does it brighten our rural people's eyes. It does not change emigration oysters, nor does it give confidence to farmers, policemen, or rescuers. There is also one seriously positive thing in the state budget next year. It's a free school lunch that the Centre Party has always talked about. Thank you so much for coming with us! The school lunch will now also be free for upper secondary school students, but it will not take the form of the drafts launched by the Centre Party on 5 April 2011 or on 10 April 2014. Both drafts went through first reading and still stand in the drawer of the chairman of the committee. The drafts we launched also noted that food prices have increased significantly over the last four years. Now the budget for next year says that a free school lunch will come to young people in their early years for 78 cents a day. We all know that's not possible. The situation of Estonian farmers is one of the central problems of the state budget for next year. It is no secret that our climate zones have less sunny days than in southern Europe. Unfortunately, our levels of direct payments are also lower than those of the old Member States. To the praise of the European Union, this distinction is allowed to be compensated by the new Member States, such as Estonia, from their national budgets. Thus, in the coming year, Estonian farmers would be able to receive grants from the state budget for 23 million euros. However, the state budget shows that the money is not there. The next year's state budget will also perpetuate the income tax cut of local governments, which was already implemented in 2009, when the economic crisis was remembered. The share of income tax was then reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%. Indeed, on the whole, it is only a few percentage points, but it meant very large sums of money for municipalities, which caused investment in kindergartens, youth activities and sport to suffer. In order to restore the revenue of local governments, this share should certainly be raised to pre-crisis levels. After all, we no longer have a crisis, the Minister of Finance promised 2% growth, and the budget will receive even 7% more revenue. So this share of income tax should be 12,13% in the current circumstances. If, on the one hand, we hear the mantra that money is not enough for everything, then, on the other hand, we will see that the Reform Party that talks about otherwise the necessity is still giving gifts to the most wealthy, for all our money. The method of seeding money from an airplane is to reduce income tax by 1% to 20%. Politics is a matter of choice. The government has gone this way to reduce the tax rate and thereby further increase the inequality of net incomes. For example, a person with a monthly salary of EUR 3000 will win EUR 27.36 per month from a reduction in the rate of income tax, while the recipient of the minimum wage will receive only EUR 1.63. The difference is therefore 16 times, although the pay difference is only 8 times. If labour taxes need to be reduced, it is appropriate to increase the tax-free minimum, where the net wage of all employees would increase equally. There is a strong impression that the reduction in the income tax rate will take place next year only because someone in the office of the Reform Party once thought that this would be an awesome election promise. The state budget for next year will certainly have a more social content than all the budgets of the previous coalition together, but there will be room for improvement. The Centre Party Group will certainly table amendments to the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U266	It was very strange for me to listen to this discussion. Anything was said about the remote, and no one came to answer with the voice of reason. Why should the service paid by the State be largely subsidised by some kind of tax exemption? Where's the logic? The trouble with all the exemptions is there's a border somewhere. The analogy is, if it's here, but it's not there, they're asking why it's not there. In fact, the question is, if the state wants to pay off something, it'll pay. However, if he starts making tax exemptions, he will deprive the poorest. He leaves out the learners, the unemployed, a lot of people who just don't have any income to deduct the money from. That's absurd! In addition, the price of the service is the one that may make it illogical to receive support. It's the wrong method! The tax advantage should not be a way of supporting subsidised services, as it creates new injustices. In any case, it creates new injustices! The question is, whether it's kindergarten or babysitting. The question is why those with no income will not receive this benefit. This is also precisely the case for linking income tax exemption to children. Instead of paying all child benefits, tax relief is offered to those who already have income. Absurd! A hundred times it has been said, but the Riigikogu is discussing it again! I had to listen to this debate for at least an hour before I got into this remote control. It was really weird.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U267	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U268	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! The IRL Group has criticised the budget deficit. There is no doubt that you cannot rejoice at the deficit, but you have justified it in the explanatory memorandum on the basis of temporary factors. I do not know whether your current coalition partner, the Social Democratic Party, is one of these temporary factors, but perhaps you will explain what these factors are and what the budget deficit would be if your coalition partner were the IRL with its current wishes and proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U269	Thank you. I am not sure that the budget will depend at all on the coalition partner. A great deal of additional requests have depended on the coalition partner and it was certainly much higher on the IRL. There's nothing I can do, it's a statistical fact that's documented. But the final result is said by the government and by the Minister of Finance, it is up to them to keep these disputes within the country's reach. Fortunately, we have also created a European framework that will help to do this. But is there a temporary or permanent factor? This can be illustrated by examples. I have already given two examples. They are enough to cover the nominal deficit: firstly, Tallinn trams, because the money for the sale of CO2 quotas came before, now there are costs, and even more has been the temporary increase in the second pillar contribution due to the freeze of payments during the crisis and now its compensation. Its total volume is quite equal to the nominal deficit of 0.9%. These examples of one-off things can, of course, still be found in the budget. They are monitored by analysts not only in the Ministry of Finance, but also in the European Commission and probably to some extent in the OECD.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U270	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister! I asked before about occupational health and everything like that, but I didn't get a specific answer. This question was taken from the employer's manifesto. They have approached us with a desire to contribute more to health care. You mentioned golf or something in your example. You always get extreme in your answers. A monthly card in some sports club, the cost of which could be limited to EUR 500 a year, I think, would be no harm. We would save quite a lot of money, both for entrepreneurs and for the state, by contributing to the health of people. But I'm asking your opinion. If this amount were about EUR 500 per year, would this be acceptable?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U272	Thank you. You'll have to get used to these sociological discussions. It seems to you that we are talking about a card that can get to some sports club, but if you look at where these cards exist, we can see that they are in wealthier areas and in wealthier companies. Those who do not have any work will be deprived of this advantage. If we start to favour natural wages with a tax credit, which is what we're dealing with here, we're gonna create a new injustice. It's a socially very wrong thing. The IRS should not investigate whether aromatherapy or another pumping or other exotic thing is really a healing activity, while the runners, skiers and runners under the forest do not receive any tax relief, not any. Outside and without a ticket, sports are certainly not only cheaper but also healthier. However, it is not possible to offer the same discount for their practice. Would we like people to run on tape because they have to buy a ticket, or would we prefer them to do it under the woods? I'm sure a mushroom ride in the gym is healthier than a race, but how do you sell a ticket for it? That's how these calculations work. We have been struggling with this proposal indefinitely, since 2003, when the ruling party itself admitted that there is nothing to do with this proposal. Nevertheless, at least once a year, there will be another draft on this subject, and there will be another debate to make it so great. The habit of looking at who is the beneficiary and how people's behaviour changes must be cultivated. You can take this ticket once and you can see how many of these tickets have been taken now, but as soon as this ticket gets a significant discount, two things happen: firstly, the number of users starts to grow on the brink and, secondly, these clubs can, of course, raise the price and start proposing even more subtle things. So who's gonna decide what to do? Is the tax administration going to measure the healing effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U273	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U274	Good manager! Good minister! In general, you have said in your answers that the budget is good. A few questions ago you said that at least one line is one that you would have done in a slightly different way, the rise in child benefits could have been a little slower. Is there any other budget line or area on which you believe that this is perhaps not best or correct in this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U275	Thank you. I'm not here to defend personal views. Since I was asked what my concept was, I gave an example of the difference between my personal concept and the compromises that I respect. I am not a counter-worker of the coalition agreement, I am trying to keep things pointless away during the negotiations. If I don't stand in the argument, I'm still defending the expenses of both parties. I would certainly object if universal child support were now to be cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U276	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U277	Thank you. Dear Minister, I want to ask you about the national broadcasting budget. The Ministry of Culture set up a committee to support the creation of a Russian-language channel and the provision of additional resources. There was also an application for funds for the transmission rights of large sports events. I understand that, at least in the meantime, the members of the national broadcasters' boards were quite optimistic. But now I see that apart from what the Prime Minister was talking about here earlier, there is no more extra money found for the Russian 'Actual Camera' and Radio 4. Why wasn't it found? How did these discussions in the government take place either with the Ministry of Culture or with national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U278	Thank you. I think that the Minister for Agriculture was in principle reasonable when he took such a spirit of solidarity that he would not pay for this situation by force or demand its payment. Firstly, the coalition agreement was such and, secondly, it is not the solution either. The farmers need relief. In my opinion, the most important relief is the opening up of markets. This has been dealt with by the Minister for Foreign Trade and, in particular, by the Minister for Agriculture as regards veterinary requirements. Perhaps the country's wallet will open up to make exports smoother, but maybe it won't be necessary. However, agriculture ministers at European level have discussed this and found that the Baltic countries lose the most of the embargoes, and Finland must have belonged to it. Measures are planned to alleviate the situation. Let's wait for them, they'll take a while. The problem must hurt.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U279	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U280	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am concerned about the work that must take place to strengthen the Estonian border. It is clear with Narva that these figures are already clear on how much money will go there this year. But what's going on south with the Russian border? How much budget money will go there this year, and will it be enough to do the work there in one year?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U281	Thank you. These are, of course, very large sums of money. In fact, it wasn't until this year that the issue came up; it was now the first time that the government was aware of it. Anyone who claims that they have said something before and asked for money in a budget strategy is not telling the truth. But I guess a little delay came from a change of government. The new minister has said that EUR 2 million has already been spent to mark the border this year. Next year, EUR 0.9 million was quickly added to the budget, and this is indeed more of a southeast border. In addition, the State Forest Management Centre has been set to clean targets, as I said. In addition to this EUR 0.9 million, which, according to my information, should go to the acquisition of cameras, I intend to propose to the Committee on Monetary Affairs between readings. There's a few ideas where we can squeeze that money out.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U282	Now a good questioner from Viljandi County. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U283	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Riigikogu from Tallinn. I've been listening on TV to IRL overdramatized questions about EVR Cargo. I dare say that EVR Cargo does not expect a 15% drop in freight transport and EVR Cargo does not stand all wagons. But now I want to go to my question. Minister, thank you very much. You said that you had coordinated one document to partially compensate homeowners for the investments intended to switch from fuel oil to other types of fuel. Is there some kind of document about a similar thing going around for companies that still use fuel oil and could switch to other types of fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U284	Thank you. I understand there's been some kind of interference somewhere. Companies that, in my opinion, can claim such support are still boilerhouses that offer heating services to residents. Support schemes for companies are usually more innovative. It is expected that the company will make its own energy decisions, however, for its own money and in a distant perspective. I do not know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or EAS have developed such measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U285	Let's go to the procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U286	Thank you. I heard the President very accurately mention the origin and place of residence of the questioner and the questioner answered the same. But Mr Peep Aru said that his question was motivated by IRL questions. I don't know such a vigilante. Do you know such a vigilante?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U287	Thank you for being so observant! I believe Peep Aru meant a member of the IRL Group. At the moment, I do not feel that constitutional order has been violated. Let's move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U288	There is no threat to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U289	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U291	I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U292	Honourable Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U293	I'm sure we'll give these greetings to Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. These tributes don't need to be transmitted, they've been transmitted now. I will give a brief overview of what has taken place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in preparation for the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2015. What is there to deny, many of the issues raised in the Commission, has today been raised in this large Chamber as well. It may therefore be that some issues are no longer so fascinating as they were presented for the first time in this Chamber, but I hope that I will still be able to attract your attention and create excitement until the end of the debate on this item. In order to start from the very beginning, it would be appropriate to mention that, even before the beginning of the autumn session, the Ministry of Finance provided the Commission with an overview of the economic forecast and, consequently, of the fiscal forecast, which will serve as a basis for drawing up the state budget. The first procedure of the draft state budget took place in the Commission on 6 October, where Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi presented the objectives and priorities of the state budget in line with the budgetary policy and the evolution of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget in 2015. As in previous years, the Commission also decided this year to listen to all ministers who will be able to give an overview of their administration budget, after which the members of the Commission will have the opportunity to put specific questions and comment. We have already been able to offer this opportunity to some ministers; some are still ahead of us. Sven Mikser, Minister of Defence, Hanno Pevkur (on 7 October), Helmen Kütt (13 October), Ivari Padar, Minister of Agriculture, Urve Tiidus, Minister of Culture and Urmas Paet (on 14 October), and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Education and Science, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Justice and Andres Anvelt (20 October). Between the first and second readings, the Commission intends to meet Urmas Kruus, Minister for Health and Labour, Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Anne Sulling, Minister for Foreign Trade and Enterprise. As the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have approached us, we also communicate with them at the meetings of the Commission. The Commission has taken the following decisions: to send the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 22 October (6 votes for and 4 against), to propose that the first reading be closed (a similar vote) and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 November at 5.15 p.m. (a slightly different vote: there were still 6 supporters, 2 against and 2 abstentions). I will give a brief overview of what has been the main subject of the Commission's meetings with ministers, and I will also briefly pass on the ministers' comments. If all that happened here were to be passed on to one person, there would be no time frame for it, so I have made a choice of the most important issues, hopefully. If anyone else has questions or wishes to clarify something, it makes sense to use a round of questions or speeches. I'll start with the Minister of Finance. I'm moving forward in chronological order. The order does not directly reflect the importance of ministers in the government, but I am simply speaking in the order in which they came before us. However, with regard to this draft, it can indeed be said that the first minister to attend the Commission is perhaps the most important minister in the context of the draft. So the Minister of Finance was the first. As in this Chamber, the Commission was talking about the possible impact of our eastern neighbour on both companies and the budget. In general, the draft is based on the economic forecast and on this basis the volume of revenue and planned expenditure. Inevitably, there is currently uncertainty in society at large and the fact that all revenue will never be guaranteed exactly as planned. But at the moment, I also believe that we have a rather realistic plan or assumption of revenue. The subject of special fuel labelling was also touched upon and whether and in what form the additional expenditure of households would be compensated. As has already been mentioned today from this remote control, KredEx has a support measure that allows for a switch between heat production, which has so far been quite costly and polluting, somewhat more favourable and certainly more environmentally friendly. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has developed this draft measure and sent it to the coordination circle. It should be in front of this hall in the near future. The issue of structural surpluses, which is currently 0.8% of GDP, and the European Commission's possible assessment of this, were addressed. More specifically, the question was whether we should base the European Commission's approach to structural surpluses. The European Commission has a somewhat different approach here than the Ministry of Finance. One important question was whether the current wage level is in line with employment, i.e. whether wage growth could be considered optimal in the context of the potential GDP of the current employment rate, given that wage growth has been relatively rapid. The Commission agrees here, and we disagree. If we considered the current employment rate to be optimal, this would mean that we would also consider the current unemployment rate to be normal. I don't think it really is. In the case of Estonia, the external environment and, above all, the impact of Finland on our wage levels must be taken into account. Due to the fact that the European Commission may have a different understanding of our structural surplus position, a margin of 0.8% has been left, which should ensure that with our structural balance position we can meet the required criteria. The subject of further requests was also discussed, and this very exciting issue of structural balance was discussed by the Latvian State. However, it should certainly be mentioned that Latvia is in a somewhat different location from Estonia in relation to its cyclical position in the economy. So it doesn't make sense to compare our structural and nominal balance to one because it doesn't give a real picture. In the interview with the Minister for Defence, the main focus was on the amount of defence expenditure, compared to GDP. It was examined whether the budget of the Ministry of Defence reflects defence expenditure that NATO does not qualify as defence expenditure. There are, of course, countries where this is the case. According to the authorities of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, we do not have such expenses, which means that our defence expenditure is also defence expenditure within the meaning of NATO. The issue was also raised in the administration of the Ministry of Defence, which replied that 2.8% is a general wage increase, with the exception of the Ministry and the Department of Defence Resources. It also specified how much of Estonia's GDP will be spent on national defence next year, based on NATO's assessment. Together with covering the cost of allied forces' presence, this represents a total of 2.05% of GDP, which, assuming our GDP forecast is correct, should be the highest percentage of all time. As regards the administration of the Minister for the Interior, the issue of increasing labour costs was also addressed. It was noted that the increase in labour costs is currently on the line of the Ministry of the Interior, it is not divided between the lines. Therefore, the image is not valid. The division takes place between the first and second readings, because the exact amount of the increase in labour costs became clear in the relative final phase of the completion of the budget and so the money could not be simply distributed. This has also happened in previous years. The ideology of state fees was also touched. We have a draft law on state fees in a separate procedure. These issues will certainly arise in this context as well. The general understanding of state fees is that they could become cost-oriented. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior has several fees that are not cost-based, such as the state fee for an ID card or passport. In fact, especially for ID-cards, the costs are higher than the current state fee and the new fee under the new state fee law. The topic of the control line and its cleaning was also touched. According to the Minister of the Interior, there is an agreement with the State Forest Management Centre to clean it up. Further negotiations are taking place on private countries. The topic of deferral of parental pension for three years was outlined in the questions to the Minister for Social Protection. There was an interest in whether this was reasonable and whether the promise to introduce it in the future in three years' time would still be respected. The Minister said that he personally considers it right that promises will be fulfilled and that this promise will be implemented in the future. The number of beneficiaries of the funeral allowance was specified. This support extends to all people who have received income support in the last 12 months. If their loved ones are to be buried, then they are entitled to support. The increase of the third child's allowance was also clarified. It will rise from EUR 76 to EUR 100. There was also a question of the need-based and universal amount of child support, and the food aid programme was concerned. During discussions with the Minister for Agriculture, the topic was the distribution of wage growth within the government area, as was the case with the Minister for the Interior. The Ministry of Agriculture is also planning to make a precise distribution between the first and second readings. In addition, the issue of which subsidies will be taxed was quite specific in the spring Commission, with regard to grants paid to natural persons. The swine plague was also topical. If the disease breaks out, the European Commission will compensate 75% of the expenditure. For us, this means that once the pig carcasses have been burned, support will be given. In addition, the Minister of Culture has been before us, as has been mentioned. He focused on the Arvo Pärt Centre. More detailed information was requested on what will be done for 3.5 million euros. The Minister of Culture said that the total estimated cost of the project was EUR 6,5 million. Initially, the project and preparatory work are planned, in addition to building tracks and roads. There was also a question of how the wage subsidy for coaches would be distributed and whether it would be within 4.5% of the salary of cultural workers. The answer was that it is not inside it and the distribution is made through a separate foundation from which money can be claimed. The focus was also on funding sport institutions, as well as the financing of museums and theatres. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was asked, as an important issue, about development aid, what is expected of us and how much we can accomplish. Ideally, said Foreign Minister, this volume could be 0.35% of GDP. We ourselves have made a promise that it will be 0.17%, but now it is 0.14% of GDP. There are also investments in the building of the London Embassy. The closure of the Hungarian embassy was also examined. The Minister for the Environment had an important topic for the purchase of land under nature conservation, which is set at EUR 5 million in 2015. There was also talk in the future about land valuation in the context of land tax and environmental charges, which were mentioned here earlier today. The Minister of Education and Research was asked about school food and consequently about expensive food in kindergartens. On this point, the Minister said that it was a political decision that this aspect would not be reflected in the 2015 budget. The topic was also the financing of the IT Academy as well as state fees, as in the case of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Minister of Justice was spoken to as the Minister of the Interior about state fees and their ideology. There was also a question of a fine policy. There was an idea, in the form of a question, of whether the amount of the fine could be made dependent on income. There are some legal problems with this, but the Minister believes that the direction is right and it is worth considering in the long term. The reorganisation of court records was also at issue. This is where I finish my review. In short, I would like to add that, although I am primarily a representative of the Commission here, as a Social Democrat, I welcome the fact that many of the issues we have proposed over the years have been reflected in the draft government this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U295	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. There's at least one question. Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U296	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! My question concerns the maintenance costs of the Estonian state in the light of this budget and how sustainable they are in a distant perspective. How much will the country's general government costs rise next year? Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs also assess the possibility of making national administration more sustainable and efficient at the expense of current general governance costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U297	Thank you. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U298	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. It is now the case that the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 730 be completed. I will set the deadline of 5 November at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of draft 730 amendments. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U300	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U301	Allow me first of all to set a course for the autumn of last, when we were debating the 2014 state budget. You will remember that a year ago, the main dispute was over the rise in child benefits and the possibility of child benefits. At long sessions, the Social Democrats stood for child benefits that were irreversibly lost in time to finally rise. One of our messages was that there is no need to put forward arguments as to why an increase in child benefits is not possible, but must be done. If there is political will, it is also possible to find sources of cover; this cost is affordable for the country. Our fight was not for nothing. Here today, in the Honorable Chamber of the Riigikogu, we have before us the 2015 state budget, in which a noticeable increase in child benefits has been recorded. It's a very big deal. Let us remember that the last time universal family allowances rose in 2004 and the children born at that time are beginning to break into adolescence. The current reality is that from the new year, the Estonian state will pay 45 euros of child support to all the first and other children of the family instead of the current 19 euros. At the same time, the almost 2.5-fold increase in child benefit is the implementation of the first and most important promise of the coalition agreement signed in March this year. In addition, the third-child allowance will rise to EUR 100 per month in the new year and the need-based family allowances will increase by 4.7 times, also to EUR 45 per month. According to the Socialists, the second important step in the state budget for next year is that free school meals will also be provided by upper secondary school students who have been guaranteed a warm school lunch since January at the expense of the state and in cooperation with local governments. A few hours ago, we also jointly approved the necessary amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The embarrassing situation, where the Estonian state could not and did not want to offer free school meals for more than 22000 gymnasts, will soon end. You can't be quite happy with the cost of a school lunch, but you just have to keep working here. We are taking fundamental steps to give families confidence and improve the well-being of the children who grow there. I dare say that these changes in the state budget mark a break in the country's family policy. They are clearly reflected in the objective of reducing the in-depth poverty of children and turning the birth rate to an increase. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the budget is a basic document of state life every year, one of the most important instruments for implementing policies. It is our duty to agree on a budget that seeks solutions to the deeper problems of society. Estonia will continue to face the painful fact that a number of children will grow up in need and that we will have too few children at all. We are faced with the massive labour poverty of people at work and the leaving of young families abroad. The Socialists are pleased that today's budget at first reading offers a solution to many of these problems. The changes to be made for the benefit of the children have been discussed at length, but it is also worth mentioning the fact that the biggest pension increase in recent years will come in the new year. This is the maximum increase allowed by the current pension index. In April, pensions will increase by an average of 5.9%, which is a tangible support for the dignified members of society. The average old-age pension, which rises to EUR 374, will also continue to be exempt from income tax. The budget for the coming year will make it possible to raise the wages of people working in the public sector, and there is a specific reason to highlight the 8% increase in teachers' pay. The teacher's minimum wage rises by 10%. It will also help to improve people's livelihoods by reducing unemployment insurance contributions and increasing the tax-free minimum, which will certainly have to go further in the coming years. There will also be a return to funeral support, which will make it possible to reduce the cost of sending the deceased away for people on low incomes. One of the key words of the 2015 state budget is to contribute to the state's defence capabilities, which must inevitably be done in a rapidly strained security situation. In addition to the budget for defence costs, expenditure on internal security and security is also increasing. We recognise that the financial position of the Treasury, and therefore the budgetary possibilities for the coming year, would be much better if income tax did not fall to 20% in 2015, of which the high-wage earners in particular will win. We also recognise that there is a great deal of water between us and the coalition partner on this issue, as is the case with tax policy issues in general. The Social Democrats are convinced that Estonia must move towards fairer taxation. I believe that the approaching elections are expected to launch a serious tax bat in society, where voters can also speak with a firm voice. Good friends! Undoubtedly, the 2015 budget will not be able to provide solutions to all societal concerns, but it will take strong steps towards a stronger, caring and more cohesive society. Once again, this is a budget for laying the foundations. The Social Democrats call for the budget to be carried out constructively and in substance. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U302	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Sven Sesteri! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U303	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are holding in our hands the draft budget, which we can safely call the pre-election interim budget. Instead of making decisions with real impact, everyone has a fingertip, a little bit for one target group and a little bit for another. Due to redistribution and cost increases, we are in a situation where next year costs exceed revenues. This is in a situation where the budget will grow by half a billion euros. Yeah, you heard me right. This year there will be EUR 8 billion in revenue, next year, EUR 8,5 billion in 2015. Despite this increase in revenue, we can still weld the state budget to the minus 100 million. I would understand how conscious the choice would be, for example, infrastructure investments, which would ensure that Estonia as a whole is developing, not just Tallinn. Yes, it would require our financial capacity and our ability to think of ourselves within the framework. However, every year, when there is no decent road between Tallinn and Tartu or between Tallinn and Pärnu, we lose both money and people. With a negative budget, we can blink the left eye, the right eye, or both eyes at once, unfortunately it doesn't help. The Minister of Finance is talking about structural surpluses. It's a little like that joke where the soldiers are asked what they're doing with the leftovers in the diner, and the soldiers say they're eating and they're missing. Ladies and gentlemen, The costs go beyond income, or the government lives in debt. In liquidity management, the government has two instruments and two options: either to use reserves or to take out loans, or to mobilise external funds. Whichever instrument is used will be reached by the end of 2015 when loan liabilities exceed reserves by EUR 320 million, which is 1.6% of GDP. The Prime Minister spoke about a budget of confidence when he handed over the draft budget a month ago. At the same session, his coalition partner rushed to say that they would rather not be spoken of as a budget of confidence. And why should I? Should there be security for pensioners who have raised their children? The government took the parental pension law previously agreed with the elegant magic trick from the hat and passed the law and postponed its entry into force for a few years. If the government says no one loses it, it's just a lie. Indeed, 23 million euros will not be paid out to pensioners from parents next year. It's as simple as that. Does that give the pensioners confidence? Should farmers and rural promoters have confidence? Next year, we will see a round zero in the transitional support line, or top-ups, and a reduction in the co-financing of the European Union by EUR 70 million. This is done in a very difficult situation for the sector. No crisis measures are planned. Latvia and Lithuania can do more, not to mention Finland. The Minister for Agriculture in the Committee on Monetary Affairs only sighed sadly when it was pointed out. Share that confidence with the farmers! Is this confidence for Estonian residents and local governments, who lose the opportunity to use specialty diesel for both heating and heat and electricity production, and are faced with an increase in costs of almost 40%? Is this confidence for gas consumers who found out that gas excise duty would rise by nearly 100% in the coming years? Next year, the state will charge additional EUR 3 and a half million to gas consumers, and it is not afraid to say that it will have to cover its spring promises in any way. I don't think there's any point in continuing the list. It is not a matter of certainty, it is a pre-election interim budget, and so it must be taken up. Ladies and gentlemen, The lack of clearer targets and priorities is a concern. Take, for example, the national border. Next year, the budget is set at EUR 0.9 million to improve the national border. Given the current situation, the IRL will certainly propose additional investment in the budgetary position during the budgetary procedure. Let us hope that this is a common interest and understanding of all of us. Or the same agriculture and rural life. We should certainly find additional resources to ensure that this sector survives and develops. Or investment in R &amp; D. Research funding has been decided to cut significantly, by 9 million euros in the Ministry of Education and Research alone, which represents 6% of this year's research funding. Such a reduction by EUR 9 million is estimated to mean the redundancy of 450 researchers, even in the event of a wage freeze. If we want to be innovative and competitive, we cannot ignore it. There are many other things that can be pointed out from this budget. Finally, however, I would like to talk about people's economic livelihoods. The ten-euro increase in the tax-free minimum that will enter into force next year, leaving two euros of additional wage money to all people who receive income, is a step in the right direction, but will not solve the problems of those who have a difficult economic situation. Given the limited resources, it would be more sensible for public money, or taxpayers' money, to be directed to where it is most needed and where it would be most effective as a measure. By channeling public resources towards low-wage earners, we can create additional income tax exemptions and, through public tax policy, we will, above all, encourage people to cope on their own. There will be fewer situations where we tax a low-paid person with income tax, and then we will give that money back to him in the form of social benefits. Our proposal is simple and clear: to introduce a tax exemption for low-wage earners in Estonia. It is a real measure that creates jobs, boosts the economy, solves the livelihoods of a very large group of societies and helps to reduce poverty. Secondly, it will help people working for them to live off their wages without the need for social benefits. Thirdly, it improves people's motivation to work and contributes to reducing unemployment. Since this budget is a pre-election interim budget where, instead of making decisions with real impact, there is a little bit of sharing of fingertips for everyone, this is unfortunately the way to take it. After the elections, we can focus on measures that improve people's livelihoods, support economic growth, reduce the tax burden on labour and help create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, There's no narrative in this budget. Estonia, however, must have its own story and its own purpose. A simple redistribution of money and a continuous increase in subsidies cannot necessarily be Estonia's success story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U304	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the European Commission made public on its website the budgetary plans of the Member States of the European Union, as the new budgetary rules provide. While the European Commission has not yet given its assessment of the budgetary plans of the Member States, it is known that the budgetary plan presented by the government and the one we are dealing with is in line with the rules of renewed and tightened budget balance. The budget plan for Estonia for next year has been prepared conservatively and is in line with the recommendations of the Fiscal Council at Eesti Pank. This represents a structural surplus of 0.6 percentage points larger than the spring national budgetary strategy. Our government budget position is 3.4 percentage points better than the European Union average. Government debt to GDP will fall to 9.5% by the end of next year. The 2015 budget has a number of positive messages. The benefits for families with children are increasing, pensions are rising and the income of people who are paid by the state is increasing. There are good messages for earners: falling income tax rates and unemployment insurance contributions and increasing the tax-free minimum. People have more money in their hands. As consumer prices have slowed down but wage growth continues, real wage growth will also exceed the overall growth rate of the economy next year, just like today. The state of the state budget makes it possible to improve people's well-being and increase their confidence. When drawing up the budget, it should be borne in mind that the environment in which redistributive value is created is growth-friendly and business-friendly. Fiscal policy cannot only be based on a one-year perspective. Its impact extends beyond one financial year. Yesterday Eurostat data showed that the debt burden in the euro area has increased to 91% of GDP and exceeds nine trillion euros. This means that the additional resources generated by the already weak growth will not go to investment and to improve people's well-being in many countries, but to service debt and to pay interest on loans. However, we can invest more than EUR 760 million directly from the budget, more than EUR 700 million, which has a higher level of GDP than many other Member States of the European Union. The employers' manifesto published last week recommends contributing to a flexible tax policy that would favour the main source of well-being in work. Employers' recommendation to the state is decisively to lower labour taxes in order to protect the competitiveness of Estonian companies. The budget plan for next year will allow for a reduction in the tax burden on labour and labour costs for businesses. With this, we will take a step forward towards the recommendations in the employers' manifesto. The stability of the economic environment, the predictability of economic and tax policies and the persistent overall tax burden are important for businesses. The tax burden remains at 32.7% of GDP. This is certainly a positive message, as is the budgetary message, that the economic environment will continue to be stable and growth-friendly. Municipalities may consider that their main source of income, i.e. income tax, is increasing by 6%. Faster than the overall increase in the budget, the state's education support will increase. 80% of education support is for teachers' wage support. With the support of the state budget and European Union funds, the school network will continue to be organised. The global security environment requires contributions to external and internal security. In order for the state to be prepared to cope with internal and external threats, next year's state budget will improve Estonia's defence capacity and contribute to internal security. Defence costs will increase by 28 million euros, while the internal security budget will increase by 21 million euros compared to this year's budget. Additional resources will already be allocated to improving border security this year and will also be included in the budget for next year. In addition to investment technology, the wages of people who stand up for our security every day will increase. Social protection expenditure is a well-known growth in the budget plan, as the previous speakers pointed out. Pensions cost more than EUR 100 million more than this year, the family allowance budget will increase by EUR 78 million. Strengthening the confidence of families with children and the elderly is a clear priority of the budgetary plan. The budgetary plan must follow a conservative approach. We have to take into account that European growth has slowed down and that the recovery of the economies of the Member States of the European Union so far is losing momentum. Our budget plan for next year will be based on conservative attitudes and will ensure a framework that will ensure better external and internal security, improve the livelihood of all people and support economic growth. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on you to engage in further constructive discussions on this budget in accordance with the new state budget law. Surely we must be guided by the principle that, if we want to increase costs somewhere, give more money, then we must also find sources of cover for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U305	Let's move on to item five. The first reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Before we go to the procedure, let me briefly introduce it. This is a first reading which is regulated in § 98 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. As usual, the report of the initiator or his representative will last up to 20 minutes, and then there will be a presentation of the commission. Of course, questions can be asked to the rapporteurs; everyone can ask up to two oral questions. Only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Then we will proceed depending on whether or not a rejection is proposed. But now I ask the Riigikogu to present a speech chair to anyone other than Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U306	Mr President, thank you for these instructions. Honourable Riigikogu! The amendments to the 2014 State Budget Act will lead to an increase in the costs of the management areas on the basis of the specified needs that have arisen during this year. The total amount of expenditure and revenue of the state budget will not change, but this bill will allow ministries to better meet the objectives set. This year's state budget will be filled in as expected. Revenues have been received in nine months at 71.5% of the planned year, costs being 68.1% over the same period. During the processing of the draft State Budget Act 2015, the government decided to postpone the dividend payments this year. This year's government budget deficit is 0.3% of the forecast GDP. The majority of the deficit relates to the central government. In total, the draft contains 65 amendments, the larger of which relate to the Ministry of Education and Research, which directs EUR 14 million to science to finance activities that have not been covered since the end of the previous EU funding period. The Ministry of Defence acquires special equipment for defence purposes for EUR 16 million. The government reserve will be increased by EUR 16 million to cover extraordinary additional costs from the social expenditure balance. The governance areas have promised that the changes will not lead to an additional strain on the budget for next year, and the actions reflected in the changes will be implemented this year. However, they must certainly not lead to unreasonable spending, or spending, this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U307	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U308	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Last October, the President's Office began negotiations to build a border garden around Kadriorg Castle, with a price of over EUR 400000. I realized that money came from that budget. I want to know what happened to that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U309	Thank you. That's still the plan. I don't dare tell you the exact schedule. I need to check the details. Two drafts are still under discussion for a very long time, so not all the details will be remembered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U310	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. But first, let me briefly introduce the procedure under our Home and Working Procedures Act. I mean, after the presentation of the initiator of the draft, Jürgen Ligi was in the speech chair of the Riigikogu, a representative of the leading commission. If you ask where it comes from, it comes from § 67 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. The commission has proposed that Rannar Vassilyev, their chairman, be the rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs. He's got up to 20 minutes to report. When this presentation is over, members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask questions. A total of two oral questions may be submitted to both the Minister and the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. After that, the representatives of the political groups may participate in the negotiations, if they so wish. During the negotiations, you can talk for five minutes, as we have used to do. If you want more time, the manager can give you three more minutes. Of course, you can take the floor within two minutes. Please, a procedural question, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U311	Thank you. What happens in a situation like this if there's no chairman here?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U312	That is a good question, but the chairman of the Monetary Commission is in the Chamber. See!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U313	It is. Pleasure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U314	Thank you for asking, but he's in the hall! I'll keep going. I repeat, you can speak for up to two minutes. Wait, please, I'm introducing the procedure right now! After the negotiations do not involve a proposal for rejection, the President shall state the deadline for the submission of amendments. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U315	Thank you for introducing a very thorough procedure. That was very necessary. But let me get this straight. You said that it was possible to put two questions to both the Minister and the representative of the Commission. That adds up to four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U316	Thank you. I'm sorry, it was definitely my fault! A total of two questions can be submitted to the Minister and the Chairman of the Commission. Mr. Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U317	Thank you. I, too, must admit that this review has properly and thoroughly explained to us how to proceed in the debate on this issue. Since this is agenda item 5 today and we must take into account that we still have five or six points to discuss, I want to know whether the President will also give us an overview of how to deal with points 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 when these points arrive at a discussion before us in logical order.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U318	Thank you. Indeed, after the fifth item on the agenda, there are five other items on the agenda, unless what may sometimes happen is impossible to hold a debate, because the rapporteur is not present. Since the points on which the good questioner asked for the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth points are also the first readings of the drafts, which I have already explained, I do not think it would make sense to duplicate this explanation for the following points. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Finance Committee, Rannar Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U319	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! I'm sorry I started coming up here too early! It's just a little bit of impatience. I'm gonna try to be a little calmer sometimes and get this remote control on time, not too soon, like this time. But now an overview of the draft law amending the 2014 State Budget Act and its discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 October. The aim of the draft is to adapt the budget drawn up last autumn to the changed circumstances in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities. In general, changes are of a technical nature, in particular they are made on the basis of the wishes of the ministries. There were not many questions and issues that were reflected in the Commission. More specifically, there is one issue that relates to the 2014 budget receipts. It was asked whether the receipts had taken place at the predicted pace. Generally speaking, the receipts have been on schedule. No further substantive issues were raised in the Commission. Consequently, the Commission took the following decisions: It was decided to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 22 October, or today. It was a consensual decision. The conclusion of the first reading was also a consensual decision. However, questions were raised by the deadline of 31 October at 16 o'clock for amendments, which was 5 and 4 against, and there were no neutral members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U320	Thank you. There's a question for you. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U321	Dear waitress, At least one amendment to this draft is not of a technical nature. In particular, EUR 15,5 million of higher education grants were planned and will be reduced by EUR 9.2 million, or almost 60%. Thus, 4% of all higher education support expenditure goes to education grants this year, which is completely unprecedented compared to Scandinavian countries, where this percentage is, for example, 20 and even more than 30. What do you explain this to, and was there any mention of it in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U322	As this was not mentioned in the Commission, I, as the Commission's rapporteur, do not currently find any competence or competence to explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U323	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 746 amendments at 16 o'clock on 31 October. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U324	Let's move on to item six. First reading of Bill 725 of the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to simplify the payment and administration of state fees and to add some revenue to the budget. The current rates of state fees date from 2011 when the fees were calculated with the precision of a cent from the kroons to the euro. The flat-rates are now adjusted upwards by the draft as follows: less than EUR 1 per cent, up to EUR 99,99 per cent, up to EUR 999,99 per cent and, of course, from EUR 1000 on previous occasions, it was a range of EUR 10 per cent. The ministries analysed the cost-orientation of their administrative state fees and, in some cases, proposals to increase fees have also been put forward in the light of the increase in costs. This is certainly not the final review in this area. At present, however, the fees of an identity document and travel document (e.g. the state fee for the passport will be EUR 28,76 instead of EUR 40), the fees of training costs (e.g. the state fee for the basic school training permit will rise from EUR 15,97 to EUR 500) in the Ministry of Education and Research, the fees of plant reproduction and plant variety rights law operations under the Ministry of Agriculture and the organic farming law operations (e.g. the state fee for the registration of the variety has been EUR 9,58 and then EUR 20), as well as the fees for binding preliminary rulings by the Tax and Customs Board (e.g. the State fee for a binding preliminary ruling for legal persons is currently EUR 766,93 and then EUR 1180). Other institutions will have to review the cost orientation of their administrative fee rates by March 2015. The expected benefits of these changes will be EUR 3.45 million in the coming year. We ask for the law to be enforced from 1 January. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U326	Good Minister, there are questions for you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U327	Thank you. Good waitress! You pointed out that some state fees would be increased due to increased costs. But it's going to be strangely jumpy. Let me give you a few examples. In examining the application for a basic school training permit, the state fee is currently EUR 15.97, while the new state fee is EUR 1500. The tide is about a hundred times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U328	I feel like 500 euros, not 1500, but maybe you're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U329	In the case of basic school, this fee shall be EUR 1500. Another example is that organic farming is said to have been raised at least 4.5 times as much as compared to the previous example, but only 1.5 times as high. So where is this cost-orientation or what are these strange choices? One place can't even be raised 4.5 times, but another place is immediately raised 100 times.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U330	Thank you. The question is reasonable, but the reasons are different here. Firstly, the deviation from actual costs varies greatly between cases. However, fees have been set fairly arbitrarily over time. At present, estimates are such that costs are not normally covered. Cost orientation, cost recovery, but certainly these fees will be lower than the actual costs. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance proposes its own methodology for calculating the cost. On this basis, ministries make proposals, also taking into account certain problems. Court cases are actually very expensive, but access to justice must not be very expensive, and the aim is not to ask for all the money back by means of a fee. The Ministry of Agriculture is likely to have procedures that should be as feasible as possible to mitigate any risks in society. There really isn't one prescription here.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U331	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U332	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said the fees were tried to be cost-based. But here's an example. For the examination of the application for a special medical care licence at the hospital, the state fee is paid according to the type of hospital: EUR 505 for the local hospital, EUR 1050 for the central hospital and EUR 1460 for the regional hospital. Explain to me why these fees are so different for the different types of hospitals!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U333	Thank you. I do not rule out that they are different from this methodology. I think you asked for it once in the Commission and received an answer from an expert. I don't remember that answer exactly. But there is no way to rule out that these things are different, different at their own cost. I guess that's what the Ministry of Social Affairs has come up with. They are the ones who make price offers or suggestions based on the methodology set out for them. But they have choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U334	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U335	Thank you. I didn't get an answer to the first question why there are still so different approaches than the principle of costorientation. But let me give you another example. The costs of issuing an Estonian citizen's passport are currently estimated at 22 euros (I will cancel the cents) and the state fee is 28 euros. Now the state fee will be increased to EUR 40, even though it is already higher than the actual costs. At the same time, the state pays for the residence card. There is a strange cross-subsidisation: if you want to get a citizen's passport, you will pay more than the costs of the state, but if you want a residence card, the state will pay you 5 euros, even 33 euros for a discount. What kind of strange politics is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U336	Thank you. I can't control your claims right now because the materials are bulky. In my opinion, I say by memory, in the case of a passport, it is still the case that the whole price is not being charged. There's no extra revenue for the state. However, these fees vary depending on the place where they are issued; abroad, of course, extradition is more expensive, which is why I think there are also differences in fees. But if you are deeply interested in these reasons, then the Committee on Monetary Affairs can once again explain what was done once.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U337	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U338	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to that question in the committee sitting, even though you said that I had received it. Rather, the Commission said that many state fees are not yet cost-oriented. However, they did not know whether these fees were cost-oriented or not. It is expected that in March next year, state fees will be made cost-oriented. Why, then, has this bill been brought here when, in March, these fees should be recycled again?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U339	Thank you. That's the answer you've got, too. Of course, it stands out that you can be answered for a very long time, but there will always be a statement that you did not receive an answer, and then you will repeat the same question. That's the custom you have. I was there when you got your answer. I also mentioned that, in some cases, it is only rounding. In the case of three ministries, at least to a certain extent, this is also a cost-orientation, in that sense, it is also the answer to your colleague's question that the costs are not one for one, but, in the view of those who make these proposals, they are quite appropriate, so that the operation is not unattainable. A methodology has been provided to ministries for this purpose. A larger audit has been ordered by March.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U340	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U341	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft State Fees Act 725 was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 6 October. The draft provides for changes to state fees for the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Tax and Customs Board on the basis of the cost principle laid down in the State Fees Act. Most of the amendments to this draft concern rounding, as the Minister described earlier in this Chamber. It should be recalled that when the euro was introduced, the rates of state fees were recalculated to the accuracy of a cent. The purpose of rounding is to make it more convenient for people to pay the fee and easier for those who charge it to manage and take account of it. The rates of the fees shall be rounded up to the nearest reasonable currency unit. I am now talking about the discussions that took place in the Commission. As I said at the beginning, there was a debate on this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 6 October when Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi was also present. Members of the Commission were also able to ask questions to other ministers who visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs during the budgetary procedure. Next, I will talk about what the Members of the Commission have said on this subject. Firstly, what is the budgetary impact? As the Minister of Finance said earlier, this draft provides for an additional EUR 3.45 million. Members of the Commission also had questions about the principle of cost, i.e. how state fees are designed in practice and whether and how consistently audits have been carried out to assess expenditure. The Minister of Finance replied that, during the negotiations on the state budget, he always proposes to review the rates of state fees and to assess whether they are adequate and based on the principle of cost. It is up to each ministry to assess the actual costs. A common methodology for determining the amount of fees has been developed. The Minister of Finance explained in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we are in a situation where the rates of state fees are lower than the actual costs. The fee rates should be reviewed systematically as a whole. In view of this, an analysis of which fees should be reviewed in order to comply with the principles laid down in the State Fees Act will be available to the Minister of Finance by March 2015. It was asked which specific rates of state fees were lower than the actual costs of carrying out the operations. The Minister gave an example of the costs of issuing identity documents. The issuing of an ID card must be cheaper than the issuing of a passport because the ID card is mandatory. The Minister of the Interior was also asked about the issue of a passport and an ID card, and the Minister of the Interior explained that the actual cost cannot be identified separately for each document. However, he also confirmed that the total fees did not cover all costs even after the increase. Even after the changes, the difference between the real costs will be two million euros. According to the Minister of the Interior, the actual cost of the circa is EUR 13 million, with a fee of EUR 10 to 11 million. The Committee on Monetary Affairs was also asked what logic the exemptions from the levy are based on. In response, we found that each exemption from state fees would be viewed individually, as each exemption is an exceptional case. Formally, the exemptions are divided into two. First, on the basis of an operation which is exempt and, second, on the basis of the person for whom an exemption has been granted. During the budget discussions of the Committee on Finance, the question was raised about the state fees rates of the Ministry of Education and Research. More specifically, what specific changes are behind the high level of state fees for training permits and licences in the Ministry of Education and Research. The Minister of Finance explained that, on the one hand, there were changes to the system resulting from legislative changes and, on the other hand, the rates had been revised on the basis of the principle of costorientation. The same was confirmed by the Minister for Education and Science at the meeting of the Commission. It also asked how the fees were reflected in the budget of the specific body. This was answered in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the municipalities would receive them into their own budget and, in the case of ministry agencies, a specific fee would go to the Ministry's budget in a series of agencies. Following these substantive and intense discussions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs made procedural decisions. We have a proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 14:00 on 31 October 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U342	Good waitress, thank you. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Siim Kisler!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U343	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The general direction of the draft law under discussion is reasonable, and it certainly has at least some of the remedial effect of state fees. However, for some reason, only one very, very short step has been taken in order to organise state fees. As the draft explanatory memorandum states, the cost-orientation of all existing fees has not been assessed in relation to the changes, although everyone obviously agrees that this should be a cross-cutting principle and an important principle. In response, the Minister of Finance outlined the objective of carrying out a cost analysis by March next year. This is not a particularly pretentious or ambitious objective. It is unclear why this analysis was not carried out in the drafting of this draft law. The draft only raises the state fees of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Tax and Customs Board and it is done on the basis of the actual costs of operations. At the same time, it is clear that this has been done inconsistently and that the fees do not actually cover the costs. It cannot be understood why, in one case, there is a very high rise in the rate of state fees and, in the other case, it has not been done for some reason. For example, as has already been pointed out, the state fee for examining the application for a comprehensive school training licence is currently EUR 15 97 cents, the new state fee is EUR 1500, the increase is 94 times. The reason is that the total cost is EUR 30060, it is covered in 20 cases per year and therefore the price increase simply needs to be so drastic. At the same time, another example of this bill. In the case of checks on organic farming, the actual cost was EUR 469000, while the national fees were EUR 100000. On the basis of the cost-orientation principle, State fees could be increased at least 4.5 times in order to achieve the objective of cost-orientation. At the same time, the average increase in state fees is 1.5 times. So the majority of the control costs are still borne by the State. Or another example of agriculture. On average, the costs of the application for maintenance of the variety in the catalogue are EUR 131 65 cents and now the average rate is 2.4 times higher. If this increase takes place, the state fee will cover approximately 11% of the procedural costs. I repeat: only around 11% of procedural costs. There are no grounds for such a different approach. What is particularly strange is the matter of the Ministry of the Interior. It has been calculated that the cost of issuing a citizen's passport is 22 euros and 32 cents, the state fee is 28 euros and 76 cents, i.e. the state fee is already clearly higher than the actual cost. However, the state fee will be further increased to EUR 40, resulting in each citizen paying EUR 17 and 68 more for his or her passport than the actual costs of the country. There is also a discount rate for the issue of a citizen's passport, which is 2 euros cheaper than the actual costs when it comes to the truth. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U344	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U345	At the same time, the state fee for the residence card is lower than the actual costs associated with it, and the discounted residence card is even 33 euros more favourable to the citizen than the actual costs of the country. It is extremely strange that the issue of residence cards is subsidised on behalf of citizens. There is one fundamental question about this draft. For example, a cost-based state fee of EUR 500 is set for the application for the right to conduct higher education studies. It's done this way. It has been calculated that the cost per year is EUR 999. It has been calculated with incredible precision that the cost per year is 999 euros. There are two cases per year. This cost is then split in two and this has resulted in a cost-based state fee of EUR 500 per case. In my opinion, this is a fundamental question of whether it is even appropriate for such operations to be financed through state fees. These are individual cases. What if there are four such cases next year or one? If there is one case, will the state fee double later? That's a very strange approach. To sum up, the draft has assessed the cost-orientation of fees on a very occasional basis. This has not been done in most areas. Secondly, even in cases where costs have been correctly assessed, costorientation is, for some reason, applied selectively. The principles of selection are completely incomprehensible and there are no specific justifications. As a result, the proposed changes to the rates of state fees are also unjustified and unfair. Ultimately, we hope that, in the course of the procedure of this bill, the rates of state fees offered will be changed so that they are logical, justified and fair. Only afterwards could we consider supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U346	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 725 amendments at 16 o'clock on 31 October. The first reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U347	Let's move on to item seven. The first reading of draft 734 of the Riigikogu's decision "Given a mandate to create a tool for the direct recapitalisation of banks of the European Stability Mechanism' presented by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! With the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government, we want the mandate to create a tool for the direct capitalisation of banks in the European Stability Mechanism. The instrument for direct capitalisation of ESM banks is part of the launch of the Banking Union. Its aim is to be a last resort safeguard once the single banking supervision is operational, but a single resolution fund has not yet been established. Article 19 of the ESM Treaty gives the Board of Governors of the ESM the opportunity to review and supplement the list of support measures. The proposed direct capitalisation instrument will provide assurance on the launch of the Banking Union, with a transition to single supervision from 4 November. The link between sovereign debt and bank risk to the euro area will also be reduced. The ESM bank direct capitalisation tool is always applied for by the State, the aid goes directly to the financial institution and is therefore not reflected in the public debt burden. The situation of the applicant financial institution must be as follows: Firstly, it will not, or is likely to, meet in the near future the capital requirements of the supervisor, the European Central Bank, it will not be able to raise additional capital on the market, and it will not be possible to close the capital gap by converting liabilities and claims. Secondly, the institution is systemically important or its situation poses a serious threat to the financial stability of the euro area or the euro area country requesting assistance. The conditions for the state's situation are as follows: First, it is unable to provide support to the financial institution to cover the capital shortfall without jeopardising its financial stability and is in such a vulnerable situation that the normal recapitalisation of the ESM as a loan to the State is not at issue. Secondly, the provision of ESM support to the country is necessary to ensure the financial stability of the entire euro area and its members. The use of the facility must be subject to conditions set by the State and the financial institution. The requesting State must take into account its own contribution to the capitalisation of the risk, which in the first years amounts to 20% of the need for additional capital. The ESM, the European Commission and the European Central Bank shall assess compliance with the conditions. If the application is considered justified, the decision granting the aid shall be taken in principle. This will trigger the preparatory work on a number of routes, a memorandum of understanding, a restructuring plan for the financial institution and a financing agreement with the country. The aid authorisation granted by the Commission of the Memoranda of Understanding shall not be granted until it has been granted. Under the political agreement, all decisions on direct capitalisation will be taken unanimously. In the event of a positive solution, ESM will acquire a stake in the bank and direct the bank to the implementation of the restructuring plan. The ESM itself, the Commission, the central bank and, where appropriate, the IMF shall monitor compliance with the conditions imposed on the State and the Bank. The ESM shall receive the transferred cash back in the event of the realisation of the holding and the interest rates on the funds invested in the capital. The interest rate shall include fees, transaction costs and interest margin. The new instrument will not change the procedure for processing the request for financial assistance established by the ESM Refinancing Act. The creation of the instrument will not change Estonia's obligations to the ESM, nor will the Riigikogu's control over ESM support tools be reduced. The use of this instrument is under the watchful eye of the unanimous Council, the ESM, the European Commission and the European Central Bank. The ESM cannot use more than EUR 60 billion of its own resources for direct capitalisation. In comparison, the planned resolution fund will amount to EUR 55 billion. At present, around EUR 50 billion of ESM's EUR 500 billion loan capacity has been used for the Spanish and Cypriot programmes, which means that even if the maximum recapitalisation is used, funds will remain available for other support measures. Estonia's liabilities in the ESM with the addition of a new instrument will not change: EUR 148.8 million in paid-up capital and EUR 1.1532 billion in callable capital. By agreeing to the creation of the instrument, we support the launch of the Banking Union and help to ensure the financial stability of the European Union. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U349	There are questions for the initiator of the bill. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U350	Thank you. My question is not specifically about this support measure for the banking sector, but wider. When Estonia joined the EFSF and later with the ESM, there were not few horror stories in this hall, how Estonia is on the short road towards the financial predatory when it joins these measures. A little more balanced and smarter people tried to say the opposite: it was good for both Europe and Estonia. It's been a few years now. So how's it really been? Can you tell me who was right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U351	Thank you. In fact, it was also terrible that he had to listen to horror stories in the media and in the Supreme Court. I do not remember this debate in the Riigikogu very ugly, but it was just how big a monetary union fund was that left a lasting memory and a lasting impression on the soul. It was still necessary to prove very simple things and to reject very chunky and reheapy arguments, which are certainly not relevant for Estonia. In fact, even my expectations have gone better than mine. Countries want to get out of the aid programme faster than possible. The problem is they're rushing into it. The aid programmes have strongly reformed countries. The ESM works with a large margin of activity, there is no running out of money, not to mention the huge additional requirements that had to be realised within 48 hours or how these stories were. It was a mystery, but it is also part of the history of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U352	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U353	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned in your answer to the previous question that you do not remember the great passions in the debate on joining the ESM in this Chamber, but in fact they were here, there were both ominous speeches and statements of opinion. All things that have not actually proved to be true were predicted, rather the opposite has gone. Here's the question. Today we do not see too much interest in this draft, which talks about empowering the European Stability Mechanism to create a tool for the direct recapitalisation of banks, say softly. How do you assess whether this is due to the content of this particular draft or the general understanding that it is unthinkable and unreasonable to fight against the European monetary system and solidarity instruments?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U354	Thank you. I hope it's the last one. I hope that no one sits down depressed and defeated somewhere around the corner, but everyone realizes that the offer was over at the time. It made sense to ask, I guess I was on the remote for three or four hours, and that was necessary. But yes, what happened outside the Riigikogu was more frustrated. It happens in the Riigikogu, but when serious lawyers and university professors start talking weirdly, it's a little unfamiliar. Political rhetoric tends to be sharper than that heard elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U355	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister. The Commission's rapporteur is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U356	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed a draft decision at its meeting on 13 October 734. Mr Andres King, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the draft, and Mr Andrus Säälik, Head of the Fiscal Policy Department, attended the meeting. Both replied to the questions put by the Members of the Commission. The question in the Commission was how this mechanism, which we are joining, will be implemented if the parent bank of this bank is not a euro area bank. In this case, this measure concerns the banks in the euro area, which is the subsidiaries of our groups. They will be supervised and rescued if the need arises, this aid will be put into effect. If there's a need, even to the point where the daughter banks here are being cut off from the mother bank. It is known that during the negotiations, Estonia and Finland wanted this mechanism to extend to the banks here and be treated equally. We discussed in the Commission how aid to banks is reflected in national accounts. In general, as the Minister has said, the grant for this measure goes directly to the bank and not through the state accounts, and this is not reflected in the State's obligation. However, if the State itself receives the loan, i.e. not the banks, but the State receives the loan from the EFSF, it will be recorded as a debt. It's different for ESM. The ESM is an independent institution that takes funds from financial markets, secures paid-up capital and the loans issued are not recognised as a debt obligation of the beneficiary country. There was a question of how the income of the ESM would develop. To this end, fees are charged and a margin is added. The margin agreed is 0,7%. It was also asked what the own contribution rate of the requesting country should be for banks. The ESM itself wishes that the requesting country's own contribution would be 20%, but it can also be reduced if the country's situation is very poor. In the end, it is not written down. It was explained how this 20% would be accounted for. It shall be taken into account for the total capitalisation needs. In any event, private investors can be involved in addition to the State and the ESM. There was a question of how the recapitalisation of the banks in particular would look like the bank's balance sheet to be cleaned up, broken down, etc. in advance. Indeed, the measure may involve several banks. The principle is that the help of the ESM must go to a bank that will remain operational. Obviously, the European Union's competition and state aid rules will continue to apply once the measure is implemented. It also asked how the share capital of the bank to be rescued would be expanded, whether the ESM would be able to participate in the bank and participate in the management activities, whether there were specific rules, if the share was 30% or more than 50%, if there was a veto right. These issues will be fixed in a contract with the bank or a separate management contract will be made. The ESM participates in management, but apparently it does not directly manage its people, but it participates in the ESM Bank Board, where strategic decisions are taken. The committee had a discussion on how the procedure for this draft decision should take place in the Riigikogu. There was such information that this draft is a bit urgent, because it would be good if it came into force with the introduction of a single banking supervision. It is known that this monitoring should take place in November, and by then there could be a mandate. However, the Commission maintained the view that we are going to deal with this draft in the normal way and that we are not going to do anything differently, we are going to proceed with the ordinary procedure. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda by 22 October. We have a proposal to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for tabling amendments on 5 November. I would point out that all these decisions were consensual. Thank you also for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U357	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has proposed that the first reading of draft 734 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 5 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U358	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U359	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Alcohol Act lays down specific requirements for the handling of alcohol, imposes restrictions on the consumption of alcoholic beverages, organises public supervision and provides for liability for violations of the law. The current law was adopted at the end of 2001 and has been updated and updated several times over the years. This amendment to the Alcohol Act is also due, in particular, to the need to modernise the requirements laid down in the Act on the basis of the interests of both the state and alcohol operators. One of the main objectives of the draft is to modernise the organisation of the national alcohol register by reducing, inter alia, the re-registration of the same alcoholic beverage if only the design elements on the bottle label change. Therefore, alcoholic beverages should only be re-registered if their labelling changes the mandatory elements, such as the ethanol content of the beverage, the volume of the packaging or the name of the product. National alcohol surveillance statistics also show that there is no further need to maintain samples of vodka in the alcohol register. This would minimise storage costs in the alcohol register and reduce the costs for operators to register alcoholic beverages. These changes to the organisation of the alcohol register should make it easier for the operator, both the producer and the importer, to apply for registration of alcoholic beverages in the national alcohol register and to reduce the administrative and economic burden on the alcohol register as well as the alcohol operator. The requirements for the formalisation of accompanying documents for alcohol are in the way of time. So far, only paper documents have been allowed to be submitted. This bill provides an opportunity to draw up accompanying documents for alcohol, both electronically and on paper. In addition, the draft law specifies the definition of the type of alcoholic beverage, the indication of which is mandatory for both the accompanying documents and the sale of the alcoholic beverage. Clarification of this concept should, among other things, help consumers to buy alcohol, as it provides more accurate information. In the secret alcohol market, there is a growing problem in recent years in terms of denatured or synthetic alcoholic products of high alcoholic strength sold as alcohol for drinking purposes. At present, the treatment of such products can only be punished as a misdemeanour, but if the alcohol law prohibits the handling of such products, it is possible to implement the Penal Code. In addition to the substantive amendments, the draft contains technical amendments. The terms of the Alcohol Act are aligned with the terminology used in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2014. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications participated in the drafting of the law amending the Alcohol Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U360	Questions. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U361	Thank you. Good waitress! This is a very correct draft, but these problems occurred at least ten years ago. All officials have been aware of them. Those who have made these entries are upset because each new entry has to pay the state fee and fill out the paperwork, the forms are out of date, there are "year-old" forms, etc. Why is this system so backwards, or why did this change come here so late? Indeed, when a year changed on the labels of wine bottles, which is entirely natural, the same wine had to be reregistered, or when the wine received a medal, it had to be reregistered. In the meantime, officials realized that there was no point in moving forward with bureaucracy, but others were overzealous again.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U362	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult for me to answer that question. Some of the nuances here are familiar to me, I heard about them at least six or seven years ago. This concerns, in particular, secret alcohol and all the trade in cologne. But that's the way it is, we're happy that there's a bill here today, and we'll make it a better life.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U363	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U364	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The amendment has now been made that the law does not extend to synthetic alcohol, esteraldehyde fraction, puscar oil and denatured alcohol. If the old version contained definitions of excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, then why is it not said, for example, that it does not extend to methanol? Methanol is also alcohol, as well as propanol. Why hasn't everything been delivered here? There's alcohol and alcohol in that law right now, I'm looking through. The terms are kind of confusing, even though they want to...
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U365	Time's up, the question was clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U366	...to make it better. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U367	Let me just say that if we see that this list isn't complete and there's something missing here, you can add it between two readings. These are so specific questions why, for example, there is an area or a name left out of it that they should be asked by the draft authors, specialists. This issue could certainly be discussed by the Commission between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U368	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U369	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Both fuel and alcohol and tobacco, as well as the most well-known goods subject to excise duty, have always attracted the darkest side of such an economy. I am simply asking a human question, driven by my colleague's question. If any new regulation makes the lives of people legally engaged in business more bureaucratic, difficult and uncomfortable, can it in any way encourage us to contribute again to smuggling and the dark side of the economy? Or do you think that what we're trying to accept here could still benefit from a sum of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U370	There are nuances inside that should reduce the smiling in the face of the secret alcohol actress. If, so far, certain types of alcohol have been penalised for being placed on the market only as a misdemeanour'we remember a few cases where it was obviously a secret alcohol, but the punishment was only based on misdemeanour, then now it is still possible to implement the Penal Code. Perhaps the same things that were in the law hole for a very long time can now be done much harder.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U371	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar! The rapporteur of the committee is Kalvi Tõvi, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U372	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed draft law 723 at its meeting on 13 October. As a representative of the initiators, we were briefed by Taavi Kand, Head of Trade and Agricultural Processing Industry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Meeli Lindsaar, Head of the Trade and Alcohol Management Office of the same department. The Minister today spoke up the content of this draft law exactly as the officials did in the Commission. I checked, the stories went together. However, the members of the Commission had a number of questions. Since we in the Commission focused more on synthetic and denatured alcohol, my colleague Kalev Lillo first asked what this synthetic and denatured alcohol is. Lindsaar explained that synthetic alcohol was chemically produced from some other organic matter, such as oil, from which it was possible to obtain alcohol using certain chemical compounds. However, denatured spirit is a beverage spirit that has been added to some kind of denaturate, such as gasoline, and thus rendered unfit for drinking. At the same time, we know that the Tax and Customs Board has raised the problem that denaturates can be removed, perhaps again, as a liquid suitable for drinking. Such handling shall be prohibited. We have been told in the Commission that about 90% of the alcohol currently on the market for secret alcohol has been obtained in this way. The draft law sets stricter limits so that it cannot be done so easily. That was the debate that was held in the Commission on this subject. The Commission also took procedural decisions. The president of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Kalvi Tõud, was appointed as rapporteur for the draft proposal for 723 to be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by today, 22 October (consensus), the second was to propose that the first reading be closed (also by consensus), and the third was to propose that the deadline for submitting 723 amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 5 November at 5.15 p.m. (consensus), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U373	Questions. Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U374	Thank you. Good colleague! When processing the Museum Act, the Riigikogu decided in full agreement that museums could still sell souvenir alcohol. Now it turns out that the Alcohol Act actually prohibits the handling of liquid in these bottles. Would you agree if we lost this little contradiction in the process of proceeding with the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U375	Thank you for your question. Yes, the bill sent to this hall still retains this contradiction between the so-called excise law and the alcohol law. However, if such an amendment comes to the table of the Commission, we will certainly be discussing it. It is not excluded that the Commission will also reflect on these issues before sending the draft to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U376	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U377	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I read in the explanatory memorandum that alcoholic beverages are spirit drinks, wines, aromatised wines and other alcoholic beverages not defined at European Union level. Perhaps you could talk about what is this fourth group that is not defined at European Union level?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U378	Good colleague Valeri! We did not have this debate in the Commission, although from time to time we have very much taken alcohol into 'qualification classes'. But to the question of what this fourth group is, I do not dare to answer anything from this remote control right now, because that was really not what we were talking about at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U379	Rein Lang, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U380	Thank you. You know very well what I really asked. But I didn't get the exact answer. Do you agree to consider this draft as the responsible judge in the committee, or do you expect someone to make a formal amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U381	Thank you, my good colleague. If this bill was at first reading, my colleague, Meelis Mälberg, briefly raised the question that the issue of moonshine is not here and that it is forbidden to produce these alcoholic beverages, which contain moonshade oil, on the basis of the Alcohol Act. The initiator of the draft law does not intend to amend this regulation. What kind of amendment is the Commission proposing, my good colleague, and is it even doing that? I am indebted to the answer now, because we have not discussed whether the Commission will change this regulation. If such an amendment is received from a colleague, a political group or another committee, we will certainly be discussing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U382	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U383	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Do you agree that, for the sake of accuracy, the term "ethyl alcohol" could be used in this bill instead of "alcohol"? The concept of alcohol is too broad. Many alcohols are not drinkable, only ethyl alcohol is drinkable. Since it is specifically intended to place pressure on drinking alcohol, it might be mentioned in terms of accuracy that ethyl alcohol is meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U384	Thank you, dear colleague Peter. I also heard that point that you asked the Minister. We will certainly take this issue to the debate in committee before sending the draft to second reading. If it makes sense to improve in terms of accuracy, we will. I'm sure I'll contact you before I read the second reading to specify exactly what you mean by this proposal. I don't think I'm a big expert on these chemical compounds and alcohol. Certainly, if it improves the law, we are willing to initiate these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U385	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Steering Committee has proposed that the first reading of this draft should be completed. I will set the deadline of 5 November at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of 723 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U386	The next item is the first reading of the draft Fisheries Market Management Act 744 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur for the initiative is Ivari Padar, Minister for Agriculture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U387	I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law on the organisation of the fisheries market, which will create a national legal framework for the new programming period of the European Union, from 2014 to 2020 for structural assistance in the fisheries sector. In these years, together with Estonia's co-financing, we can channel EUR 129,6 million from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) to the development of fisheries and coastal areas, of which the European Union's money is approximately EUR 101 million. We have set the objective of enforcing this law from 1 January 2015 so that we can start opening support measures as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. However, the basic regulation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) was approved by the European Parliament and the Council only on 15 May 2014, which has put strong pressure on us in the preparation and adoption of national documents for the implementation of the Fund. The operational programme of the Maritime and Fisheries Fund, drawn up in cooperation with the fisheries sector, was approved by the Government on 9 October and already on 15 October it was duly sent to the European Commission for approval. However, the European Commission still has six months to negotiate this implementation plan with us. The new measures include the collection, control and monitoring of fisheries data and the implementation of an integrated maritime policy financed directly from the European Commission in the previous period and market management measures previously supported by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. As has been said, this law creates a national legal framework for the implementation of the EMFF operational programme, but in addition, it regulates the granting of fish economic State aid and de minimis aid and the organisation of the common market. To a large extent, the draft is based on the current Fisheries Market Organisation Act and its implementation system and concerns fishers, fishers and fish processors, as well as the authorities involved in fisheries research and development activities and the public authorities responsible for managing the fisheries sector. For the development of all these areas, the Fund's operational programme provides for certain measures. The Fund's implementation scheme will also remain largely the same as in the previous programming period. For the implementation of the operational programme, the functions of the managing authority, the certifying authority and the audit authority shall be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Agricultural Registers and Information Office will continue to process aid applications as an intermediate body, and as a new intermediate body, the Food and Veterinary Office will be added to the Food and Veterinary Office, which will be responsible for verifying compliance of fish with EU regulations and marketing standards of freshness and size of fish. The State aid principles in the fisheries and aquaculture sector for the 2014-20 period remain largely similar to those in the previous period. The new, cross-cutting principle of State aid is a requirement of transparency. Member States must ensure that information on the granting of aid is available online, i.e. the grantor, the recipient, the form, the amount and the legal basis for the granting of the aid. I will stop at a few other important points that change from the previous period. In the case of the production of sprat and herring, a profit association can be recognised as a producer organisation if its members have landed at least 15% of the total catches of sprat and herring in Estonia. This is still the case and three producer organisations have already been established, covering 90% of the sprat and herring caught in Estonia. For other fish species, the members of the cooperative must have landed at least 40% of the total catches of this species in Estonia. The producer organisation should have sufficient market power to carry out its interests in determining the price of fish in the markets. Sprat and herring catches are relatively large compared to other fish species, accounting for 75% of the total catches in Estonia. A commercial cooperative with a production capacity of at least 40% of the production of the relevant species is also recognised as a aquaculture producer organisation. On these grounds, a producer organisation has already been recognised in aquaculture in Estonia. The amendment provides that producer organisations engaged in fishing or aquaculture production will be able to become members of undertakings from other Member States. I would like to draw your attention to another important change. Where an applicant has committed a serious infringement of fishing requirements, such as fishing at a prohibited time or place or with a prohibited fishing gear, or has committed fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Communities in connection with the European Fisheries Fund or the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, his application shall not be admissible for a period of time. This time will be set by the European Commission. In addition, persons who have been punished for fraud, preferential, investment, insurance or computer fraud, bribery, mediation and power trading, and for having committed a known breach of an act restriction imposed by the Anti-Corruption Act, cannot apply to the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) for grants while they are covered by criminal records. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U388	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister. The waitress of the commission is Terje Trei. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U389	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate at first reading of the draft Fisheries Market Organisation Act 744 was held in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 14 October. The Minister's detailed presentation of the draft, which he presented a moment ago, is unlikely to require a re-examination. Mr Geir Veski, Head of the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, participated in the meeting of the Commission. The main points raised were the reference in the draft text. In this respect, we have received clarification from Ain Finland that the Block Exemption Regulation for the fisheries sector and the State Aid Guidelines are at a stage of negotiation, which is why there are no references in the draft. I'm sure there won't be any points in the bill. It is hoped that the European Commission will adopt these drafts during the procedure, and if they are not adopted, it will propose that these references be deleted from the draft. The Commission unanimously took the following procedural decisions: to appoint a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Terje Trei, 744 as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 October, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and to propose that the deadline for submitting 744 amendments be set at 31 October at 13:00. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U390	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 744. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 31 October at 13:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U391	The next item is the first reading of draft law 745 on the implementation of the common agricultural policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is the Minister of Agriculture Ivari Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U392	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In October 2011, the European Commission published a Communication to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions entitled 'Towards a 2020 CAP: Against the challenges of food, natural resources and territories', based, inter alia, on opinions gathered during the previous public consultation. The Communication stated that the CAP should continue to be a strong common policy centred around the two pillars with the following strategic objectives: viable food production, sustainable management of natural resources and balanced territorial development. Greater changes have been made to the parts governing agricultural payments in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Changes of a fundamental nature are in the structure of direct payments. The necessary adjustments to the direct payments system are linked to the redistribution, restructuring and better targeting of the aid. In particular, the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy provides for compulsory application of climate and environmental support, "greening" and support for young start-up farmers, in addition to the single area payment. Each country will also be able to implement redistributive support, natural restricted areas, small-scale producer support and coupled support. The biggest change to the current direct payments system is climate and environmental support, which the applicant must meet three basic requirements: diversification of agricultural land, i.e. multiculture, maintenance of permanent grassland and identification of ecological focus areas. It is also possible, if the Estonian state has money to do so, to pay transitional grants until 2020. Now I am talking about market management measures. The reforms will streamline the existing instruments, but they have already entered into force at the beginning of 2014 and were introduced into our legislation in the first half of this year. Rural development policy values the sustainability of the agricultural sector and rural areas by supporting economic, environmental and social development. No major changes have been made to most of the elements of the provisions on the granting of grants (defining rural development support and resources available in the budget year, the content of the conditions for granting grants, implementing regulations for grants, application for grants and processing of applications, including evaluation, acceptance/disapproval of applications, payment of grants, etc.). Important changes concern the following issues: In the implementation of the 2014-2020 RDP, part of the support is also planned to be provided in the form of repayable assistance, through the financial instrument. This is the setting up of a fund from the rural development programme, from which entrepreneurs can obtain loans to carry out the investments provided for in the rural development plan or from which loans to undertakings can be guaranteed. In order to organise the grant in this way, § 68 of the draft contains provisions concerning the selection of the body implementing the financial instruments, the conclusion of an administrative contract with it, the payment of funds to the financial instrument and the use of resources recovered. The most important of the changes to the implementation of the Leader approach and measure is that during the new period, the evaluation and decision on financing or non-financing of project proposals by Leader action groups will no longer be an administrative decision and the Agricultural Registers and Information Authority (PRIA) will not conclude administrative agreements with them. According to the new scheme, the action groups will assess the applications, but a final binding decision on the funding or non-financing of the application will be taken by the PRIA. Under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, all Member States have an obligation to use the farm advisory system. The offer made for this purpose must cover certain subjects. There are two major changes to the implementation of rural development support for advisory, training, information and other knowledge transfer services. Under the EU Rural Development Regulation, support for the advisory service is no longer granted directly to the farmer, but as a subsidised service through a service provider, which in turn has to be selected through public procurement. Training providers must also be selected through public procurement. Changes in the implementation of the corresponding grants resulting from the selection of these service providers and changes in the design of the system are regulated in § 71 of the draft. The new element in support for rural development is also innovation clusters, a form of cooperation aimed at promoting innovation, aimed at providing wider opportunities for companies in the sector to improve competitiveness. While, to date, individual projects were mainly supported in cooperation between the company and the research organisation, the clusters set up will allow for longer-term and more strategic planning of cooperation and joint projects between the entrepreneur, the consultant, the researcher and other actors. In the case of technical assistance to the rural development plan (Article 74 of the draft), the biggest change is the decrease in the number of institutions receiving technical assistance to three. These authorities are the Ministry of Agriculture as the Managing Authority for the Rural Development Plan, the PRIA paying agency and the Rural Economy Information Centre as the body performing the functions of the National Rural Network Unit. The other bodies involved in the implementation of the rural development plan receive technical assistance support either through the Ministry of Agriculture or through the PRIA. Rural development support is also linked to the introduction of a catalogue of reference prices. This is one method for assessing the reasonableness of expenditure on rural development investment support. Where provided for in the terms of the grant, aid may be applied for only for the purchase of an item entered in that catalogue and the amount of the aid shall be calculated on the basis of the threshold price indicated in the catalogue for the object concerned at the time of the application. Initially, the catalogue will include mobile farming equipment and is authorised by the Estonian Plant Production Institute. The provisions of the Monitoring Chapter are based on amendments to the law in force by the Law on the Amendment and Implementation of the Law on Law Enforcement adopted on 19 February 2014. In addition, the appeal procedure and the grounds for recovery and recovery of the aid are regulated. The new provision in the draft is that the payment requirement is not transferable and the aid paid is not compulsory on the beneficiary's current account, with the exception of the requirement for the payment of the single area payment provided for in § 11 (1) (1) (1) of this Act. The requirements for payment of the aid are not transferable and the aid is not compulsory for structural support for the period 2014 to 2020 either. The inclusion of this provision in the draft proposal is due to the problem in practice that bailiffs and tax authorities have started to apply on a massive basis to the bodies handling and paying grants to make claims for support. Both the Supreme Court in its judgment and the Ministry of Justice have stated in their previous statements that legal clarity about the assignment and seizure of agricultural subsidies is necessary, and the same principles must be followed when establishing the regulation of the seizure of both the claim and the amount paid under the claim. The effects of the law. The total amount of support paid through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for the period 2014-2020 is approximately 992.6 million euros, including the amount of compulsory co-financing by the Estonian state of 169.5 million euros. In the implementation of agricultural direct payments, a total of EUR 1.007 billion can be paid as a grant in 2014‐2020. In addition, transitional support, if available, can be implemented. For 2015, €115 million has been left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U393	Due to an extremely thorough presentation, members of the Riigikogu have asked questions. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Agriculture! I'm asking about the young farmer's aid. It has been said here that the Minister for Industry can determine which skills and training requirements this young farmer, who is a legal person, must meet. Don't you think it's too restrictive if, for example, a young person with a higher education diploma cannot become a farmer because he doesn't have that professional paper? Farmers will grow old anyway and no more young ones will come. Isn't that an obstacle that could be reviewed? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U395	Yes, this issue is known and there have also been many different views on it in the agricultural organisations. I, too, actually believe that I do not consider education to be primary or compulsory in order to pay the young farmer's contribution. We have a good number of young people who have an interest and motivation to start developing their farming unit further, but who do not have an agricultural education. After all, the one standing before you is actually a history teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U396	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U397	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am a city dweller, and I know better about projects related to urban life. Maybe my question is naive, but I'd like to understand. I realized that right now, if a person wants support for things that are related to the Ministry of Agriculture, he'll come to you. If we're talking about a direct grant, as I understand it, I could be looking for that money right now, without your ministry. But it turns out that for that, I have to go through a lot of places that are connected to your ministry. Am I wrong or not? This means that this circle will increase for the person who wants this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U398	These agricultural and rural subsidies are divided into two columns and are more or less of the same size in Estonia, let's say a billion to one and a billion to another. One is agricultural direct payments; the other is rural development programme payments. Agricultural direct payments are payments to hectares and animals for which the so-called project does not have to be written. If I want a hectare-based grant, I don't have to write a business plan on how I mow the area with a scythe. The main thing is that it's mowed. But the other side is rural development aid, which is very clearly project-based. It needs a solid business plan. If I want to buy a tractor, I have to write down what I'm gonna do with that tractor. In the case of direct payments under the first pillar, one can say, there is less bureaucracy; this is another regulated issue. As far as the rural development plan is concerned, it is clear that the taxpayer, both in Estonia and in the European Union, is keen to know what you are doing with this money. There's no getting out of the business plan, and there's no getting out of the bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U399	Siret Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U400	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi visited the Riigikogu Hall today. I also asked him about the transitional allowances. I asked why they were not foreseen in the budget. He argued that this was not the subject of much discussion in the government, and the Social Democrats had accepted that farmers would not receive transitional payments. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U401	Very sad when Jürgen Ligi has so lightly approached this whole issue. Undoubtedly, agricultural subsidies have been a major concern for the new state budget. At the same time, it must be said very clearly that this year's state budget was put together in March and April, in the spring. What has taken place at a later date, after the conclusion of the new coalition agreement, has been such light cosmetics. Let's just say that when Arno and his father arrived at the school, the classes had already begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U402	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U403	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed this draft in the Commission on 14 October. Mai Talvik, Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Marko Gorban, Head of the Rural Development Department, Külli Kaare, Head of the Research and Development Department, and advisers of the Legal Department, Jaana Lepik and Geir Veski. All the points that the Minister dealt with here also came to the debate in the Commission. The main questions raised by the Commission were the changes made in relation to the previous period. For example, if the Leader regions no longer make their own decisions, they go to the PRIA, if the workload of the PRIA does not increase further and if it can do so. We were assured they'd make it. Perhaps the biggest debate, if I remember correctly, was about § 85 of the law, which talks about the producer group. Only a profit association can be a producer group under this law. This was the most important point in the law, why it can only be a profit association, not for example a non-profit association, a limited partnership or a partnership. We received a letter from the Ministry of Agriculture because the Ministry of Agriculture had addressed this issue in drafting, and they had already received a proposal from the Ministry to which they replied in the negative. We will probably have to come back to this issue at the next Commission meetings. The members of the Commission also had a question about the school vegetables and the school fruit programme, which fruit and vegetables are offered there. We have received the answer that Estonian fruit and vegetables are preferred. It is also possible to offer kephir and unflavoured yogurt in the school milk programme, and there may be a jar of jam next to unflavoured yogurt, but they must not be put together and cheese cream cannot be offered from the school milk programme. There were questions about counseling, but the minister was already talking about this. We have come to the conclusion that the first investment amounts are expected to be paid out by the end of January, diversification measures will be opened in March and regular area payments are expected to be paid out in May. That was it. Yes, some of the decisions we also made: we have a proposal to close the first reading and we are expecting amendments by 1 p.m. on 31 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-10-22_U404	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Nobody wants to say anything. Therefore, the first reading of draft 745 has been completed on a proposal from the Commission and the deadline for the submission of amendments is 31 October at 1 p.m. All right. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 8 a.m.
