ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the seventh plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. This is a very delicate issue. The City of Narva learned that the Labour Dispute Committee would be closed on 1 March. This means that the third largest city of Estonia is no longer as important as the same committee. Where will these disputes take place? How are the estimated number of dozens or several hundred people per year going to Jõhvi, Rakvere, Tallinn or God knows where? How are travel expenses reimbursed, and how did such an idea come to mind? However, it is a city where there are 24000 and there have been up to 27,000 employees in the best times, and there have been labour disputes, obviously, enough. All of this I would like to talk to the Minister for Social Affairs, although there is no hope that this extremely stupid and harmful decision will succeed, unfortunately there is no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U3	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Social Minister, Mr Taavi Rõivas, on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group. The topic is the control of the Estonian language skills of health professionals. From the 2013 Annual Activity Report of the Language Inspectorate, we learned that 725 employees' language skills were checked in the field of health and social welfare. The check identified 519 staff members without the required language skills, whereas 77 were fined and 37 were fined under the urgency procedure for a total amount of EUR 3655. Looking at the Language Inspectorate reports, it can be seen that the language control of health professionals is becoming increasingly active. Indeed, in 2013 alone, the same number of health professionals as in the previous three years were checked together. The number of misdemeanour proceedings against health professionals was also record last year, with 114 cases of misdemeanour. By comparison, there were 33 in 2012, 27 in 2011 and only 8 in 2010. Given the shortage of doctors and nurses in Estonia and the fact that our health professionals are actively looking for applications abroad, we ask for answers to several questions. I'm not going to read them all, but a few. We are wondering whether the Language Inspectorate is coordinating its controls with the Ministry. And the main question is what the Minister of Social Affairs is going to do to improve the language skills of medical workers before the Finnish state does for him.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U5	Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I will hand over a draft titled 'Law on the amendment of the Land Tax Act extending the exemption for homeowners' land tax'. The purpose of this draft is to extend the existing land tax exemption for homeowners on two points. One of them relates to the co-owners of a common matter. The current law treats owners and co-owners differently from ownership. The purpose of this bill is to harmonise treatment. The second amendment, which is contained in this draft law, relates to so-called "pooled destination countries." Since the Act currently defines an exemption for the outcrops of residential or rural land, those people who live on land with a compound destination or other destinations, such as commercial land, are forced to pay an additional land tax on commercial land. In order to eliminate inequalities and differences, amendments have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall immediately submit them to the addressee. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank," submitted on 12 February, is a commission of finance; in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Advertising Act, initiated on 12 February, is the Committee on Economic Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic," submitted on 13 February, is the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. A public consultation document on the revision of copyright regulation, submitted by the European Commission on 14 February, was submitted to the European Union Affairs Committee. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a Committee on Culture and Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and consultation documents of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 27, 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 14 are missing. Let's go to this week's agenda. The agenda for the fifth working week of the 7th plenary session of the Riigikogu is before you. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put this agenda to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U8	Let's go to the questions. The first is an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip on 13 January 2014 by Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev and Urbo Vaarmanni. I'm asking for a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! At the beginning of this year, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu gave a speech at the International Centre for Strategic Studies in Washington, Washington, where he discussed the development of NATO's capabilities and problems. Reinsalu repeatedly pointed out in his speech that NATO's strong balance in the Baltic countries is not for the benefit of the alliance, but for the benefit of other countries. As other countries, the minister named 'our good friend Russia' (this is a quote). He also recalled the departure of the last tank from Europe last spring and stated (again quote): 'We miss this tank'. In addition to this, it is quite appropriate to recall the earlier speech of the Minister of Defence before the Georgian parliamentary elections. At the time, Mr. Minister openly said that the Russian puppet that created the opposition coalition in Georgia's Dreams was Bidzina Ivanishvili. Estonia has so far been guided by the principle that each country decides for itself the national political direction voted by the people. The expression of such a position seems to be a very clear trial of the domestic policy of another country. This statement had been reported to have taken place in consultation with Eerik-Niles Kross and Mart Laar. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U10	I'm sorry, waitress! There's too much noise in the hall. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U11	Everyone is familiar with the text of this question, memorized, and what they have to listen to. Consequently, we signatories have four questions for the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister reads them out, I'm not wasting time right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U12	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Was the positions outlined in Washington's speech agreed with the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or as in the speech concerning the Georgian state only with Kross and Laar? ' According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the positions presented in the speech are balanced and in line with our current positions on security and defence policy. The second question: 'Was Washington's speech in your opinion the position of the government, the minister, the ministry, or rather the IRL as a party? ' The presence of the US in Europe is also a clear security policy interest in Estonia. It is in our interests that, through a number of practical military joint activities, such as joint operations and exercises, high-level visits and joint statements, attention is paid to our region. Question 3: 'Does the Prime Minister agree with Minister Reinsalu's statement that Estonia needs a stronger US military presence in the Republic of Estonia, or would it be enough to get along and know that we are strong allies? ' In Washington's statement, the Minister of Defence stated that the most important thing would be a set of various collective actions, which could be called, for example, the presence of the United States. In principle, it coincides with our defence and security policy positions, i.e. for Estonia, the presence of the US is primarily demonstrated by practical joint activities in operations, exercises, Baltic air security and other cooperation, including cyber defence. By the presence of the United States, we have never meant the existence of permanent bases in our country during peacetime. The current NATO air security rotation in the Baltic States is for example the fourth time in the United States. The United States specialist is present at the NATO Cyber Defence Centre and the United States has regularly contributed and are still contributing to the Baltic Defence College. All of this demonstrates the desire of the United States to be present in our region and also in our country. Question 4: 'Please assess how such statements will affect our relations with other countries, including Russia! ' As far as Russia is concerned, there is no reason to believe that the speech of Minister of Defence Reinsalu would have any effect on our relations with Russia. By the way, the basic act of NATO-Russian relations has also agreed that NATO will ensure collective defence and other security needs in the new Member States, in particular through the necessary infrastructure, interoperability and additional activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U14	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U15	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Some time ago Georgian MEPs moved around the Riigikogu; we had a whole delegation here. If my memory is not deceived, Mr Ivanishvili also visited Estonia. I'm not in this group of friends and I'm not really interested in it, but it looks like it was pretty high-profile. When you met them here in the Riigikogu or perhaps met one of them separately, did you say clearly that they were Russian puppets, or did you not mention it? In answer to the first question, you said that this sentence is in line with the lines of our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U16	Thank you. Your question concerned Urmas Reinsalu's speech in Washington, Washington, which did not concern the article in some newspapers. I answered the question specifically. Your memory does not deceive you, Mr Ivanishvili, the former Prime Minister of Georgia, indeed went to Estonia and I assured the former Georgian Prime Minister that Estonia is interested in developing relations with democratic Georgia. Without saying too much, it is clear that we are working with the Georgian Government, the Georgian President who has been elected by the Georgian people in democratic elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U17	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U18	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! According to the Constitution, the Republic of Estonia is a parliamentary state. As Prime Minister, how do you comment on the fact that a statement by the Minister of Defence in a parliamentary country, for example, on the Central African peace-building mission, sounds first to journalists, not to Parliament? In view of this practice, how can one believe, hope and desire that the defence policy will continue to be consensual when political group chairs hear about the principal defence policy steps through the media, not directly from the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U19	I have always been a pro-publicist and I do not understand your bitterness because you were not the first to hear about the Minister of Defence's thoughts. Estonia is a parliamentary state and it is the parliament that gives or does not authorise the use of Estonia's limited contingent in any foreign country. This right cannot be withdrawn by a statement from any person, by an article in a newspaper or by any other argument. Parliament has the right to decide and parliamentary democracy must certainly not be understood in such a way that any person, even if he is a minister, should first speak to the chairmen of the committees and then be given the freedom of expression to communicate with the media as well. This would be an obvious restriction on the freedom of the media and I wish that this situation would never occur in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U20	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! You've been in a coalition with the IRL for a long time, so you should know better about their soul. Can you tell us what itches all the time when it comes to Russia, whether it be the evaluation of the Georgian President, the issue of the U.S. tank, Interpol or the last topic when the Prime Minister visited the Sochi Olympic Games? Did you think it was a big mistake to visit the Sochi Olympics?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U22	Visiting the Sochi Olympic Games was certainly not a mistake; it would have been a mistake not to visit the Olympic Games. All the surrounding countries were represented at a high level in the Olympic Games. We know that Finland was represented at the opening ceremony and, in the first part of the Olympic Games, by the President, the Prime Minister will certainly attend the closing ceremony. Yesterday, we saw a Swedish king's pair on TV living along with their announced victory. The very high-level representation was the king and prime minister of Norway. The President, Prime Minister from Lithuania, the President from Iceland and his wife were present from Latvia. I dare say there was no boycott, of course. In my opinion, this confusion between politics and the Olympic Games is in no way acceptable. For me, it is neither clear nor understandable how any elements of the Olympic Games can be separated from others. How can it be said that I don't boycott a 15-mile classic drive, but look, I boycott a message ride, or that ski jumps from a normal mountain are perfectly acceptable, but jumps from a big mountain should be boycotted or something like that? The opening ceremony of the Olympic Games is an integral part of the Olympic Games. Certain elements already stemming from the Olympic Charter that must be included in the opening ceremony, including the arson of the Olympic fire, raising the Olympics, taking the oath of athletes, judges and coaches, etc. Like the heads of government in most European democracies, I felt that there was a need to be with athletes, even when expectations for a good performance are losing small or there is hardly any medal hope. In both good and bad, leaders must be with their people, among their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U23	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U24	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, All I could understand from the answers that were now being heard was that it is much more pleasant to discuss the Olympic Games than it was to discuss the statements made by Reinsalu. That Prime Minister's answer was like an owl's mysterious flight in the dark woods: it's like you've seen and heard something, but actually nothing concrete. Very short and misty answers, and I didn't expect much of anything else. There are no conclusions to be drawn from these answers. I just came to pay tribute to Mr. Prime Minister. I think a person who has to spend some time in his life next to a man like Reinsalu, in a room with him deserves respect. It's something like a heroic thing. His insane look, his totally inadequate statements once on a subject, once on a second, once on a Stalnukhin, once on a talk about Russia, once on a time, and all the time past, past and past. Well, a pretty common thing, I'd say, in recent years, quite common for the Secretary of Defense. I have once said here that our police deserve the best, for example, to lead it so that the minister is a police officer. Over the last few years, I have come to the conclusion that our Defence Forces deserve the best. A long time ago, it is time to find an officer as their minister, but not a statue like the lifelong politician Urmas Reinsalu. A little more seriously, I would like to say that we have all heard and read about the fact that Mart Laar had not only the obligation to consult Saakashvili, but also some small business, that Eerik-Niles Kross also had some kind of obligation to advise, but according to his memory, he had some kind of business. And when people who are materially involved with one politician or another start slandering or simply judging his political opponents, how can the Government of the Republic or his representative, in the form of a minister, take these views? Where money is in it, there is really no objectivity. But thank you again and I thank the Prime Minister for not having to spend as much time in the same room as he does with Reinsalu. So, brave man!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U25	This issue is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U26	We are going to the next question, which is the report on the constitutionality of the raising of environmental fees submitted to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev, Urbo Vaarmanni and Priit Toobali on 15 January 2014. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In 2009, the Government of the Republic increased the rates of special water usage rights and mineral mining rights in advance for the years 2010 to 2015. This gave a clear signal to the industry that rates would be fixed for the next five years. However, in October 2012, by Regulation No 83 the government decided to change the rates by increasing them faster than planned in 2009 and to a greater extent. According to the original plan, the environmental charges mentioned in the 2013-2015 period would have been increased twice by around 5%. As a result of the amendment, fees would have increased by 20% each year. Indrek Teder, Chancellor of Justice, already in April 2013, presented to the Government the view that such action is unconstitutional and proposed that the rates of environmental charges be brought into line with the Constitution. Unfortunately, the government did not respond to this injunction, which forced the Chancellor of Justice to address the Supreme Court. On 16 December, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court issued a decision in which it took the view that an unexpected increase in the rates of fixed environmental charges by the Government in 2012 was unconstitutional. According to the Supreme Court, the purpose of raising fees was legitimate, but it did not outweigh the legitimate expectations of entrepreneurs. According to the Ministry of the Environment, after the Supreme Court's decision, the state will have to pay EUR 4.8 million back to the companies' prepayment accounts. In addition, the country is expected to lose EUR 5.3 million for the previous year, EUR 12 million this year and EUR 17 million expected in 2015. In this regard, we have four questions for the Prime Minister to look forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U28	Thank you. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'This is not the first time that the government is significantly worsening the business environment. In the summer of 2009, only a few weeks' notice raised the VAT rate. Why does the government consistently want to worsen the situation of entrepreneurs in Estonia? ' It is known to everyone that current environmental charges do not compensate for environmental damage. The aim of increasing the level of environmental charges is to guide companies to make more sustainable use of natural resources. In addition, mining and pumping out water will cause significant damage which must be compensated for by local residents and the State. The principle of the Government of the Republic in setting environmental charges has been that the polluter pays. It is not fair to put compensation for environmental damage on someone else's shoulders. The second question: 'The Chancellor of Justice drew the government's attention to the problem as early as last spring, if it had been possible to improve the situation without major losses. Why didn't the government listen to the Chancellor of Justice? 'The Government of the Republic, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, analysed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and jointly concluded that it was unfair to reduce environmental charges to the level established in 2009, as these rates do not compensate for environmental damage. The decision was based on the analysis of ministries, the Environmental Charges Act and the economic effects of the amendment. The third question: 'The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court decided that the unexpected increase in the rates of environmental charges was unconstitutional by the government, which means that this year the state will lose some EUR 12 million. How do we plan to cover this hole in the budget? 'The Government of the Republic introduced relatively low environmental charges in 2009 in the context of the economic crisis and their size was fixed on an annual basis until 2015. After drawing the attention of the Chancellor of Justice, an additional analysis was carried out and the constitutionality of the amendment was verified. The Supreme Court found that increasing the disputed rates is an appropriate and necessary means of directing companies to use natural resources sustainably and to increase the revenue of the state budget. However, the Supreme Court considered it important that a time series of increases in environmental charges has been established at government level until 2015, which created legitimate expectations in companies. On 18 December 2013, I have said in Question Time of the Riigikogu that, despite a considerable increase in environmental charges, mining has significantly intensified. If the increase continues at the same rate, the increased amount of mining will also cover the loss of revenue from the tariff reduction. The actual receipts of the state budget for 2014 will be announced by the end of the year and only then can the under- or over-charge be estimated. In the event of lower-than-expected income, national reserves may need to be mobilised. Question 4: 'The Ministry of the Environment has already announced before the judgment that if the decision comes negative from the state's point of view, nothing will happen and simply the increase in environmental charges in 2016 will be even greater. Does the government have any calculations that prove the need to increase environmental charges, or is the aim merely to fill the holes in the state budget? ' According to the Ministry of the Environment, the fees for the special use of water for the extraction of water from quarries and mines are currently significantly lower than for the abstraction of groundwater from the same layer for other purposes. More than 80% of the groundwater that is pumped out in Estonia comes from pumping out in the quarry and mines. The purpose of introducing new rates is to eliminate the unequal situation and to require a comparable remuneration for the use of groundwater and the resulting environmental damage. In addition, the extraction of mineral resources entails significant losses for both local residents and the environment, which must be compensated by a fair price paid by the extractor. It is a long-term policy of the Government of the Republic that, by requiring higher environmental charges, companies are directed towards the sustainable use of non-renewable natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U30	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Almost all questions were answered by a single type of answer that environmental charges do not cover environmental damage. However, if, in 2009, forward rates were set for the years 2013 to 2015, perhaps by making a more modest calculation than would have been necessary, an attitude towards businesses and a legitimate expectation will still cost something. If the government or some of the ministries were fingering it, then you could have lived until 2015 and then raised these rates considerably more than now. Why do you think such a word or government decision is of no value?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U32	Thank you. It is probably a value, but the increase in environmental charges should not be seen separately from the government's decision not to introduce a "Royal" on oil shale resources. As we know, the proposals to tax oil shale resources in particular on additional taxation have been quite consistent, with a price that would be dependent on world oil prices. There have been very different calculations in Estonia of what environmental charges should be, which would really compensate for the damage caused to the environment. Generally speaking, these calculations foresee an increase in environmental charges by a whole order of magnitude, as we are currently only covering one tenth of the damage actually caused to the environment. One proposal that several political parties presented before the previous Riigikogu elections was precisely the introduction of an additional tax on oil shale resources. We considered very carefully the possibility of introducing the so-called roja in Estonia and found it unreasonable to tax the use of oil shale for oil production to a greater extent than to tax oil shale for energy production in Estonia. It would not be reasonable to tax the use of the resource on the path of inefficiency. Therefore, the government waived the imposition of an additional tax, i.e. Royalt, and instead decided to increase the rates of payment previously notified to the public. It was a well-considered government decision. We assumed that there was a legitimate expectation in both cases, so there was a legitimate expectation, due to this early announcement of the time series, that payment rates would remain low, as well as, for example, the expectation that the coalition agreement would introduce a royalt. We decided to waive one additional payment. Therefore, it is quite logical to increase other environmental taxes on this account, because once again it is said that the polluter has to pay, and the current environmental charges in Estonia do not compensate for the damage actually caused to the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U33	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! This is not about the amount of environmental charges, it is about the speed of introduction. Is it not time for Estonia to agree that no tax change will take effect until at least one year has elapsed since its entry into force? Businesses would then at least be able to take into account what obligations they would be faced with.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U35	Thank you. I ideally agree with you. After all, it could be that companies would be able to know about the new tax rates at least one year in advance. In this case, the government wanted to give certainty to businesses for an even longer period and was essentially punished for it. This significantly reduces the motivation of future governments to inform businesses for so long what tax rates may already be in place in the future, as it may always happen that the proposed new tax will not be introduced and therefore the rates of payments already in force need to be increased. It must be said that this judgment does not constitute any particular disaster for the state budget. The lion's share of this tax is paid by a State-owned company and, from the point of view of the state budget, there is little difference as to whether to obtain income from dividends or environmental charges, although it would still be reasonable for the cause of environmental damage to know to what extent it is able to compensate for the damage suffered.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U36	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U37	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Environmental charges have been set until the end of 2015. Essentially, there will be some time until the end of next year. Business leaders ask what will happen next in 2016. What can we promise them when there will be negotiations in the government and Parliament to have a clear picture of what will happen to environmental charges by 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U38	Environmental charges must compensate for the damage caused to the environment. The 'polluter pays' principle is one of the basic principles of taxation in Estonia, and neither present nor future governments will ever give up. In the nearest future, recalculations will probably be made and companies will be informed about the level of environmental charges in 2016. Clearly, the tide is coming. This increase must compensate for the very low payment rates in the intervening years, when the gap between environmental damage and compensation payments has increased rather than narrowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U39	No further questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you, Andrus Ansip. As Kalev Kallo spoke on behalf of the heirs, I would like to make sure that you agree that Lembit Kaljuvee will take the floor first in the negotiations. Yes, please, Lembit Rockvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U40	Madam President! Good Prime Minister and Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise. I checked that Kalev Kallo didn't press the button, and then my button was already pressed down. So I didn't want to push ahead. But the remote moved me to come with the part of our Prime Minister's answers that pleased me. The Prime Minister confirmed that the government has gone this way so that oil shale is not taxed on two ends. A resource is taxed. It is clear that the resource must be taxed and, although companies are opposed to taxes, they understand the resource tax in a sense. There must be a resource tax, because we use our own assets and must not do so free of charge. The question now is whether this tax is fair, we want to act fairly in the rule of law. I have worked in the construction sector for over a few decades, and I can say that my peers and younger men are engaged in construction entrepreneurship, which accounts for 7% of our GDP. That is not enough. There are thousands of jobs, jobs that do something. I stress: it is done and produced. So we need to monitor this sector seriously. I have not heard a grudge among my familiar entrepreneurs about the availability of a resource tax. The state has done very well twice in the last seven to eight years in the sense that the five-year tax increase has been announced in advance. But they're either offended or upset because the schedule has been drawn up for five years, but in a few years, they'll come and twist the tax. This was the case in 2008 and was the case in 2012. Companies are upset or offended that twice the promise has been broken. What did this thing go to court for? Because the state had said that five years were such taxes and every year the tax increased so much, but after two years it was looked at that money was needed, and it was decided that we would take it. The tax rate was changed. Personally, I have proposed to increase the resource tax on oil shale from this remote control. I believe that oil shale must be taxed at one end and that the current rate of resource tax is low, given what can be made of oil shale, what opportunities and skills we have. Oil shale is one mineral resource, it is an energy resource, other materials are something else and they should be treated from a slightly different perspective. What else do I want to say? I repeat that there must be a resource tax, that must be stated in advance in the long term, and that, once this announcement has taken place, the tax must not be changed in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U41	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask Kalev Kallo for a chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In this remote control, I cannot, like Mikhail Stalnukhin, express great enthusiasm for the heroic actions of the Prime Minister that being in the same room is supposed to be a heroic act. Although the questions were somewhat different, the answer was basically one: our environmental charges do not cover environmental damage. But in 2009, when these calculations and this decision were made, didn't it really happen that the charges had to compensate for the losses? Or can no one really calculate the amount of damage or anything like that in advance for more than a few years? Well, I guess it was also a thorough calculation when that decision was made. That is why, as the previous speaker said here, this has come as a cold shower for entrepreneurs. They too must do their own strategies, investment plans, etc., for a longer period than two years. If the government is acting so suddenly, it's gonna be hard for them to keep their company up. The answers did not in any way convince us why this decision had to be changed suddenly. Of course, we agree that taxes must compensate for the damage, but these calculations must be done in time. The amazing answer was also about the EUR 12 million that is missing: nothing is wrong, more will be dug and it will cover it. Although the question had also been said that 4.8 million tax collected earlier would have to be refunded and 5.3 million euros would be lost for the past year, how these costs would be covered, we did not hear anything about that. This year's money will become available at the end of the year. It is all the more astonishing that if the opposition has any proposal, even if it is a funeral grant, which is certainly much less than 12 million, then there is still a great cry of trouble that now it is a total mess with the budget and there is nowhere to take that money. However, if the finger is fingered and it turns out that 12 million are missing, this is not a problem at all, but more money will be received and we will be able to make ends meet in the autumn. There may be other costs, perhaps, that the volume of VAT will increase, that more money will be received, and that we will come out. Overall, there will be more money and there will be no shortage if 30 or 60 million ESMs are to be paid or if 12 million government fingers are to be paid for, then there will always be money and there will be more. But if the opposition has any drafts to help people, where 3 or 5 million would be needed, that money will never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U43	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U44	Today's third inquiry is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Jaan Õunapuu, Urve Palo, Rainer Vakra, Neeme Suur, Karel Rüütli, Indrek Saare, Jüri Morozov, Helmen Küti, Sven Mikeri, Heljo Pikhofi, Eiki Nestori, Rannar Vasiliyev, Jaak Allik, Kalev Kotkase, Rein Randver, Kalvi Tika, Andres Anvelt, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Marianne Mikko, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee and Mart Meri on 13 January 2014 to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U45	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, on 13 January s. a 22 members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning the organisation of passenger train traffic. I think a lot of people who took the train early this year remember these crazy times. Twenty-two respondents consider that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which signed an agreement with Elron on behalf of the state, is largely responsible for the problems of train traffic at the beginning of the year. The railway undertaking has been entrusted with obligations that are very superficial and sometimes contradictory to each other. For example, the number of departures of trains and the requirements for the passenger cabin will only be valid in April, although the trains started to travel three months earlier. Unfortunately, the Ministry did not take into account the higher performance of trains during peak hours when ordering the state, which is why trains are full of wood during peak hours and people have to stand up for a long time. I can confirm this from my experience, as I have traveled on weekends by train in Tartu-Tallinn during the day and during the evening. At times, it seems that the Minister has not understood that the railways carry people and goods according to different rules. The Ministry had the opportunity to enter into an agreement with Elron that would have met the real needs of passengers, but unfortunately this was not done. Now it was only after the press fire that the problems that had been known began to be solved. Consequently, we have a number of questions. Why are Elron's trains subject to very modest minimum requirements for passenger transport, and why did they not enter into force on 1 January? If it was known that some of the new trains would only arrive in Estonia in the summer, why didn't some other carrier sign up for half a year or some other time for missing volumes? The Minister must explain why he did not immediately call the heads of the state company to order when he found out that Elron was also failing to comply with the existing contract. We ask whether the new direction of regional policy is to take into account only the larger centres, and people living in the countryside have to cope themselves in defiance of poor train and bus traffic. In total, we have ten questions and I hope that the Minister will answer them very exhaustively. I must also admit in this speaking board that, as a result of how the Riigikogu's procedures for answering questions have been set, perhaps the hottest time has passed on this subject, but I think that there are enough of these ten questions that are still very topical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U46	Thank you very much. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U47	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and respected heirs! I'll answer your questions. Preliminary so much that I listened to the judgments of the esteemed Mr Apple Tree, his Excellency. I guess they're a little arbitrary, if you're right to put it mildly. The first question: 'Why did you set very modest minimum requirements for passenger transport in the agreement with Elron? " The contract with Elron does not have any modest minimum requirements for passenger transport. If we compare the requirements that were in previous times and by which we have been on a train for almost a decade, then even the requirements have been increased, the electronic data records, the real-time train monitoring information system, and the 11 stops are provided for lounges. As regards the number of seats, I would point out that the country where the contracting authority has submitted minimum requirements. Elron is a company and the company's natural interest and the elementary principle of action is to respond to demand. Elron's interest is, of course, an increase in the number of passengers, and therefore there is a need to better respond to the demand for our domestic train traffic. The second question: 'Why did the minimum quality requirements for diesel trains not start to apply as early as 1 January 2014, but only three months later? ' The minimum quality requirements for diesel trains began to apply from 1 January 2014. It was not only by contract that high-speed trains, high-speed services, which must be implemented at a later date, would become applicable as of 1 April. Elron has met the other quality requirements of the passenger compartment. The third question: 'If the Ministry knew that part of the diesel trains purchased would arrive in Estonia in the summer and that the existing rolling stock would not be able to serve passengers at the required level, then why was there no contract with another carrier for at least half a year? ' The Ministry turned to the Circa six months before the termination of the contract to South Western Railway and proposed to negotiate the possibility of continuing the service on a smaller scale in the first half of 2014. Southwest railway refused to discuss this possibility. Southwestern railway wanted to continue fully serviced in 2014, which was not suitable for the government, to the state, as this would have meant that new trains would not be used and the subsidy paid to Southwestern railway from the state budget would be increased by the cost of EUR 7.7 million in new train leasing payments. There are no other alternative carriers to turn to on our market. As a comment to this question, the train fleet, which was actually in the company's hands, was more or less sufficient for the peak hours, not to mention that the delivery deadline for new trains in total volume to Estonia is not summer, but a sequel is being brought here and it can be said that Elron's partner Stadler has speeded up the delivery of trains. Question 4: 'Why does the Minister, knowing that Elron is violating a contract with the State, not call the heads of a state company into order? ' The public service contract provides for sanctions for breach of the contract and, where appropriate, the Ministry also applies these sanctions. However, we can say that there has been no widespread breach of the contract by Elron. Question 5: 'The Director-General of the Technical Surveillance Authority, by order No 1-11/13-236 Stadler FLIRT for diesel trains on the South-West Railway Infrastructure AS railway network, established exactly the same times for passing through stations as for diesel trains of type DR1 that had previously served passengers. How can passengers be offered faster connections than existing trains on the south-west railway infrastructure with new trains? " It is not true that driving times remain the same. For example, when a train with all stops in Southwest Railway travelled from the Baltic station to Rapla for an hour and 17 minutes, Elron's train is running for an hour and a minute. In Viljandi, a train with all the stops at Elron will run for two hours and 21 minutes, i.e. as long as the high-speed train in the southwest railway. Elron's high-speed train is 15 minutes faster. As an interim comment on a public question as to why it was necessary to change the timetables in the first place. The timetables needed to be changed because the new trains were faster. Given the interests of passengers, it would simply have been short-sighted or incomprehensible if the technical possibilities of these trains were not exploited. As a result, timetables had to be adjusted from 1 January onwards. Question 6: "Does the new direction of the country's regional policy only take into account the large centres, while people living in the countryside, defying poor train and bus traffic, have to take care of themselves how to get to work, to school and to the doctor? ' As I have said, this whole train investment and rail infrastructure programme is a very large regional policy. I would not contrast here, as you say in your question, with large centres and smaller villages and aleves. The new timetable will normally be discussed with all regional communities and a compromise will be sought between "large centres" and "smaller places." I dare say there are smaller seats on the winning side. It can certainly be pointed out that the connection between Tartu-Koidula, Tartu-Valga and Lelle-Pärnu has improved considerably compared to the time before the new trains arrive on the line. But I think one of the most difficult questions here is if the Tartian wants to get to Tallinn quickly and all trains leaving Tartu should stop at every stop. In this case, Tartu and South Estonia's regional policy will lose. It is quite difficult to seek a compromise between demand, the interests of companies and public authorities. By the way, there's a summer schedule going on here, so everyone can say the word again. Question 7: 'You have said to the public that the Southwest Railway demanded double subsidies, otherwise it promised to stop passenger transport. In essence, by extorting additional money from the Estonian state, threatening to stop the continuity of vital service, which is the transport of passengers according to § 34 (2) 7 of the Emergency Act. When such a security threat arose, what were your actions? " The Ministry immediately turned to the electric railway in 2008 and reached the necessary advance arrangements for obtaining alternative diesel trains mainly from the Riga factory, so that, if necessary, it would continue to operate diesel trains in Estonia. Question 8: 'Did you report this incident to the Ministry of the Interior as a vital service coordinator? " Such a direct need did not arise. As I said in reply to the previous question, the electric railway reached an agreement in a relatively short period of time on trains that could have provided a vital service. It was then also possible to continue negotiations with South Western Railway and we reached an agreement with sufficient time before the agreement ended. Question 9: "Have you informed the competent authorities of the security threat that has arisen [---]? " In retrospect, it is clear that South Western Railway has not breached the obligations of the vital service provider. The risk of losing the right to provide the service to Elektriraudtee AS probably motivated Southwestern Railway AS to behave reasonably, and in the end, Southwestern Railway made a viable offer to the State to continue passenger train traffic from 2009 to 2014. Suitability means that the subsidy remained in the same order of magnitude as it was before 2009. The tenth question is rather a rhetorical question. I leave you the right to discuss this among yourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U48	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U49	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is known that for quite several months there have been amendments to the Public Transport Act on the table of the Economic Commission, where there is one point concerning direct rail contracts. This thing has stopped on us, and I understand that it is the Ministry's wish to keep direct contracts in the draft. But what we've done is done. I'm not here to ask a question to someone's lawyer, much less to the lawyer who used to be the carrier. I have this question for you: was the Ministry absolutely certain that direct contracts could be concluded, and the contract was signed with Elron? What is the amount that South Western Railway is now seeking to obtain from the State through the courts?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U50	I dare say that if there was a discussion about the fact that direct contracts for passenger train traffic could not be concluded, this is one of the many issues where South Western Railway has started a dispute with the state, it was not only the position of the Ministry, but also all documents expressing the will of the Riigikogu, including the views of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu committees when discussing various draft European Union legislation, confirm that, given Estonia's reality, direct agreements on passenger train traffic are essential. The question is not that nobody likes a competition, but it is quite clear that direct contracts make sense, above all, when the market is so small that there is no substantive competition in the competition. Here comes the natural reason, and I believe that this view has been represented by all governments. We have gone back to 2000, in connection with this dispute, when the current law on public transport was introduced in a large way. Not to mention various European legislation, direct contracts are reasonable in Estonia's real market situation. When the cabinet discussed the issue of whether or not to make a competition more than a year ago, it also presented very thorough legal opinions. There was a substantive debate about whether it would make sense to make a competition if one of the participants were to come. This is a very burdensome activity and will inevitably place all the risks on the taxpayer's shoulders. That's the answer. At the same time, the possibility of direct contracts and the interpretation of the sections of the current Public Transport Act in conjunction with the regulations of the European Union are the subject of a dispute. I hope the trial will give you its truth here. Regardless of the litigation, the government has reaffirmed its position by submitting the relevant bill to the Riigikogu so that the Riigikogu can confirm its will in the expression verb. I think this is essential, because otherwise we should have a competition that does not actually create competition. I think that is not what any taxpayer wants, and that is also unreasonable. The second question was the dispute between South Western Railways. Southwest Railway has a number of disputes against the state. They're also demanding compensation, I'm not telling you that amount right now. I repeat once again that in 2009 the State and South Western Railway concluded a five-year contract on the same case, to which you refer in the seventh and ninth questions, after the Elektrirail had found the 'post-Soviet area' as a minimum necessary for operating the long distance distances of the train fleet. There was a lot of discussion at the conclusion of the agreement, and there was also a lot of exchange of letters on how the termination of the agreement will take place if the agreement is cancelled before the expiry of the deadline. By 2008, it was clear that South-West Railway would not invest in new trains for many reasons, but the old trains would not last long, so it was such an emergency extension. There was an in-depth discussion of how the treaty was abandoned. According to the lawyers of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this is sufficiently regulated in the agreement between the State and South Western Railway, the deadline for prior notification is set. All of this has been followed well by the state. South-Western railway was aware that the early possible termination of the contract was linked to the arrival of new trains; there was no opaque or incomprehensible behaviour on the part of the state. If the contract is terminated earlier, the State is obliged to compensate for the direct loss of property. How much South Western Railway thinks there's such direct property damage, we don't know for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U51	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. In your reply, you mentioned the paragraphs of Tartu-Koidula, Tartu-Valga and Lelle-Pärnu. I'm asking about Lelle-Pärnu. It is likely that we will have a situation in the near future or in the medium term where TJA will simply close the Lelle-Pärnu section because it needs to be substantially reconstructed. What happens when the time comes? Are we going to reconstruct the Lelle-Pärnu section, or are we going to tell the wolves that Rail Baltic is coming next to it, and then you're going to ride the trains, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U53	Thank you. This question should be put to South Western Railway. You know perfectly well that the Lelle-Pärnu infrastructure belongs to South Western Railways. It is in this sense a slightly caricature situation that important regional political associations, be they in the direction of Viljandi or Pärnu, belong to a private company, and you ask the Minister whether the Minister intends to fix them for public money. Yes, in 2008, we had the opportunity to save the line between Türi and Viljandi. But once again, it would still be fair to ask the question to the owner. This is the situation we have now, this line belongs to the owner, and the owner should tell us what he is going to do with it. Of course, the owner comes and asks the state how much money the country intends to give him. Is this a reasonable situation? I think it's far from reasonable. How has such a situation arisen? We can watch the end of the 1990s. I don't really like digging in history. In essence, the answer is this: this section must be repaired if the construction of Rail Baltic in the direction of Pärnu is delayed. If we succeed in fixing the direction of Rail Baltic Pärnu, then invest as much as we invested in Viljandi, 85%, I think we're just not that rich. We need to accept this somewhat vague situation now. But I think the sooner we get the final clarity on the feasibility of Rail Baltic, the sooner we can sit down with representatives of South Western Railway Infrastructure AS and look for some sort of investment optimisation solutions. The whole amount of investment is very expensive. It would be quite reckless if, for example, in ten years there would be a completely different infrastructure that fully satisfies the regional Tallinn-Pärnu connection. That is the current position. But the question is correct. You are very capable people, Social Democrats, meet South Western Railway Infrastructure AS and ask what the owner is up to! Let's not get involved in the owner's business, private business! Let them explain to the people of Estonia what their thoughts on this matter are.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U54	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Your answers were rather critical of the questioners than self-critical of the fact that suddenly something went wrong in your ministry. During the first week of January, driving from Viljandi to Tallinn during the morning rush hour, when Rapla's people began to work, I saw that it was very difficult to find seats from Rapla. The seat problem was up to Raplan on his return journey. Could anything have been done differently to avoid such a situation? Indeed, today the situation has returned to normal, an additional train has been set for Rapla. But this start, do you really think that everything was done right, nothing could have been done differently? So how did the emotions come from people who had to stand on the train for an hour?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U56	Thank you. If you have read the criticism of your address in my answers, I'm sure you have misunderstood me. I congratulate the authors of the inquiry and I very much agree with what Mr Apple Tree said, i.e. I would have liked to have responded to the questioning an hour after you had given it in. Perhaps there should be such a procedure in the Estonian parliament that the minister is invited here and he is reporting, so we should not be waving around or looking for a newspaper that would be ready to listen to us. But for that, let's not get on a slippery road! After all, we were able to talk enough in January, and I am also very critical. Once again, the company has confirmed that they can ensure a perfect transition in all things. We don't have a point here in the middle of February, but in order for you to understand me correctly, of course, I was disturbed in the same way that, in my opinion, an investment of this importance in the development of Estonia as a whole provided an opportunity, even for a few days, to make such criticisms. By the way, before I came here to see you, I was looking into an increase in demand. It is no longer the case that all people can sit back, but this increase in demand is what we really want. In the direction of Viljandi, especially from Rapla to Tallinn, there has been more demand, as well as in the direction of Tartu. There are trains again where people have to consider that they may not be able to sit while driving. But it's always a signal to the company. This is why the train park has been dispersed into smaller trains, two-car trains, so that trains can be increased according to demand, according to the number of tickets sold. I agree with you that this kind of non-criticism is no longer necessary, the situation is under the control of the company. I want to hope and see that the trains are full, but so that people feel well-served, that's the point. Do not forget that in the transport development plan we have quite sincerely planned the number of rail passengers twice. So where does this number of passengers come from? And if the design is realised in this form, then it remains that not all trains at all times are 100% occupancy. A scarier picture would be if we'd been driving those old trains. The big train travels to Viljandi on the evening of the working day, and it is almost empty, not half empty. Don't you think we're gonna get blood on, wondering how much we've actually paid on this train, where we've been throwing our money? After all, you have always fought here for better social funding and all that. Don't you think it's gonna be blood on the railroad with the Russian Khrushchev horror show, a couple of passengers inside, and we keep paying for the money from the budget? But that's it. To sum up, of course, I was very disturbed by this situation, but I have to admit that the public response, as it was, gave the company a lot of enthusiasm. I liked this reaction in the sense that we are showing how demanding people we have, that the semi-public sector cannot afford any poorer quality. It's kind of a pretty good indicator. Just in case, more numbers. In the first week of January, this company also ensured 52 departures per day, and at least according to the company's statistics, based on the number of tickets sold and the information provided by the train attendants, this week stood 12 on departure. This also shows the proportions once again. It doesn't justify that there were a lot of standing up at some point, but it shows that 52 exits were actually very normal to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U57	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U58	Thank you. Good minister! The organisation of public transport across the country is quite a serious issue, all the more so than one mode of transport, rail, has been heavily invested and tried to make it better. Do you have any preliminary details that have now happened in bus traffic? On the one hand, if there is a proper rail connection, there is some way to get on the train, i.e. local routes are important. The second question is how this has affected, for example, the performance of Võru-Tallinn high-speed lines. In view of the fact that some passengers are already boarding a train from Tartu, are the routes reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U59	Thank you. It is probably too early to draw any fundamental conclusions. We have read in the media about the reaction of some bus companies that there are fewer passengers and that their competitive position is more difficult. It is certainly right what you said at the beginning of your question. Here, municipalities, Elron and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and all public transport operators have a lot of work to do to make the connection between cities, including Tallinn, better, more up-to-date, faster and more convenient. I will take this opportunity to say once again that we have EUR 15 million in separate funds planned for next year, two or three years, to support local projects that will help to adjust infrastructure so that different modes of transport can be combined more easily, including private and rail transport. Let us see if this will also have any impact on making the various modes of transport better connected, so that there are no technical and infrastructure barriers. It is early to draw any fundamental conclusions. It is clear that competition will increase, that can be expected. The number of rail passengers has increased in the first month. When I asked the company this morning what the situation was in February, their data still show growth. At times, data may not be very well comparable due to the fact that the reference base is last year, where there was a completely different situation. I think we're gonna start putting together the real picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U60	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, True, the organisation and operation of passenger trains have improved. It's a good thing these things get settled in the long run. We hope that you will also continue to take into account the interests of local people and organisations if the timetables for passenger traffic still need to be revised. However, my question concerns a very large public investment in the coming years or in the tens of years, known as EUR 1.5 billion. From this public money of the Estonian state, perhaps 500 million will go to the Rail Baltic route and then there will also be a redistribution of passengers from one railway route to another. Do we have a comprehensive solution for organising passenger train traffic when Rail Baltic is already in place or in the coming years? Has there been any plan with the immediate neighbours how to get the Tartu-Valga-Riga line to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U62	Rail Baltic's preparations are in such a phase that it is a little early to draw up a sufficiently detailed national public transport programme document, which would also have some efficiency. It is not certain at this point that we will reach an investment decision in the case of Rail Baltic. I hope we can make it. With regard to the Tartu-Valga-Riga route, the transport development plan, which is to be approved by the Riigikogu, reflects our willingness to find a functioning economic or business model for either restoring or creating an attractive train connection. Whether it succeeds depends on us and on our colleagues in Latvia. We've done some research on that. The key question is how this thing pays off commercially, and if not, how to support it and so on. There is certainly still the question here that infrastructure charges vary between countries. But this is one of the issues of cooperation between Estonian and Latvian transport ministries and we are working on it. I don't want to make a promise right now when this community can actually recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U63	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U64	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I don't want this question to sound like something we're talking about. I understand that the driving conditions have certainly improved, the train has become more comfortable. But it is also clear that in the beginning all of Elron's activities were incomplete, there is no doubt about that. Not being able to inform people in time about timetables could not set out the right timetables is certainly very negative and the work that has not been done. In rush hours, trains are overcrowded, and this has been discussed several times. People have had to either stand up while driving or sit in the aisles, if possible. I've been there myself. On the Tartu-Tallinn train, people will be standing from Jõgeva, not to mention Tamsalu and Tapa. For an hour and a half from Jõgeva to Tallinn, older people are not comfortable. Neither do ticket vendors get into cars full of people and what to deny there, the problems have been very serious, I cannot tell you about the last week, but before that, even with card payments. Trass is not able to make a card payment in some places, and then this poor waitress comes back to the person at the next stop, so maybe now we can make the payment. The weirder it is than a company whose own income doesn't reach 30%, has a little bit of a superficial view of earning income. Toivo Promm, both Minister and Chairman of the Council of Elron, has argued that this failed train operation is regional policy. I have taken this claim from interviews with both the person mentioned above. It can be said that the increase in passenger numbers alone does not guarantee a high-quality service. Passengers, in turn, are dissatisfied because trains in peak times are made for high-speed trains that do not stop in small places. I have been approached by a large number of local government leaders. They have expressed their dissatisfaction that their proposals have not been taken into account in the timetables. Perhaps, at the beginning of the summer, these proposals can be better taken into account when drawing up new charts. It is clear that at first there were growing difficulties. I am sure that during peak hours you will need to add wagons to the trains, in the direction of Tartu-Tallinn there are definitely two extra cars, in other directions one or two more. I looked at the bill that Elron brought out today. They are delighted that the number of passengers has increased significantly in January and February compared to South Western railway. I think that the actual number of passengers may have been even higher; not everyone was able to sell tickets. However, since the last question was not read out by the Minister, for the sake of this verbatim report, I will read out that nothing remains a secret: 'Mr Parts, there has been one scandal at the other end of your term as minister, you have not managed the ministry. Unsatisfiedness is the case in the Riigikogu, but most importantly, even those who have called you to serve are not satisfied with you. Isn't it time to give up your overbearing office and come back to our ranks? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U65	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no call. The debate on this point is exhausted. Thank you very much, Minister Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U66	After the hammer hit, it is now possible to register for a free microphone speaker. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U67	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Last Friday, a meeting of the management board of the Estonian Centre Party in Narva was held in Narva, including the mayor and the management of the council. We discussed financing the education system on the basis of a draft regulation which was sent to Estonian municipalities two weeks ago. With regard to teachers' salaries and the school system, there is a constant question of which school will remain, which school will be shut down, which will be merged, etc. Questions arise all the time. Often, the information that appears in the papers, on TV, and on the radio is completely inadequate. Given the sensitivity of this issue, the Narva Region Board asked me to report to you on the first decisions we took on this subject. When the Government of the Republic adopts this regulation, which amends the money-sharing system, there will be a slight increase in funding for comprehensive school in Narva. To sum up our multi-hour discussion and calculations, we have a total of seven comprehensive schools where the current staff of teachers is guaranteed a 12% wage increase. I say this in the interests of the verbatim programme, because it will be watched anyway: these are primary schools located in Narva Upper Secondary School, Narva Kreenholm Upper Secondary School, Narva School 6, Pähklimäe Upper Secondary School, Soldino Upper Secondary School, Humanitarian Upper Secondary School and Adult School. There will be 275 standard loads, i.e. about 300 teachers out of 560. Within a few weeks after this regulation is approved by the Government of the Republic, the Treaty will be amended and wage increases will be foreseen. But even in middle school, money is scarce according to this model. There is no way to raise wages, as there are very few students in these primary schools in Narva Estonian Upper Secondary School, Narva Peetri School and Narva Paju School. The particularly tragic situation is in Narva Estonian Upper Secondary School with 173 students. There are less than 200 children in Narva Paju School, both sick children and those in need of additional social care. Namely, a student home was established there when Mailis Reps was a minister. As far as the Narva upper secondary schools are concerned, without changing the current system, the Minister of Education's promise cannot be fulfilled. Everyone needs to know that 35, 36 or 37 teachers must be fired from schools in order to meet his promise. It doesn't come out any other way. So we in Narva are now wondering how we can make the faculty decide what they want. Whether they want a 12% wage increase promised by Minister Aaviksoo, involving the dismissal of some 36 of their colleagues, or they accept a lower wage increase, but want to maintain the scheme that is currently in place. We made another decision on Friday. From 1 September of this year, we will only open upper secondary schools if there are a minimum of 35 students. There's no more time for year-on-year crap Aaviksoo's giving us. It's easier to switch to a new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U68	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, Our colleague, Mailis Reps, wrote quite a lot last week about how we have things with higher teachers' salaries, despite the fact that the Minister of Education Jaak Aaviksoo says that teachers' pay has grown at a pretty good rate and is growing even more. The average teacher's salary turned out to be 976 euros. On the weekend, I picked up and calculated. We have over 14000 teachers and 976 euros is the average salary, I multiplied by 12, and I counted all taxes, 1.34 is the coefficient. Turns out our budget is for all teachers to get the average salary to take 220 million, a little less. I'm sorry that some numbers may be going a little different than the statistics do. When I took the same method and started multiplying the teachers' salary by not 14,000, but 10,000, 970 on average and 12 months, coefficient 1.34, I got 157 and a little more million, which is more or less in our budget. The point is that this difference, a little more than 50 million, should have been added as soon as we approved the budget in this Chamber last November. It's a real salary. But what comes out? It turns out that the cover of this gap has to be found somewhere by local authorities in order not to shut down schools. Some things have already gone the way some mayor tells us we're gonna lock everything up, we're gonna shut down the parish government, we're gonna pay the teachers, we're gonna go somewhere, I don't know where, we're gonna go on vacation, or we're gonna do some other work. For many years, it has been said that local authorities receive quite good support from the state. We are talking about roads, we are talking about excise duties, all about where the money should grow strongly in the local government. But I understand that, unfortunately, with teachers' pay, we have the same thing. Here you can immediately see how the state thinks about how the ministry, the minister thinks about the future of our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2014-02-17_U70	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No, it's not. Then all the items on the agenda have been discussed and today's session is over. I wish everyone a beautiful evening and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.39 p.m.
