ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Please take your seats. I begin the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Franc Ferry Horvat, Franc Kangler, Breda Pecan, Jakob Preseknik, Villa Rezman, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Jožef Školč, Janko Weber. I invited the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, and I welcome all those present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 7 February 2006. I have not received any proposals concerning the extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I understand that the voting devices are working. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 17th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the draft decision in connection with the decision-making of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the Republic of Slovenia's NATO mission to train security forces in Iraq. The draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr Mark Pavlih. I give the floor to the representatives of the applicants for further explanation of the draft conclusions. Dr. Mark Pavlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! Prime Minister with ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! At its letter meeting on 12 January 2006, the Government of Janša adopted a proposal for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO Security Forces Training Mission in Iraq, on the basis of which four soldiers were to be deployed to Iraq in 10 days. At first glance, such a decision was very surprising in relation to the practice so far. In fact, it is much worse because it is a reckless, irresponsible, unnecessary and unethical move of the government, as if it were sending Slovenian tables to exotic places, not to a horrifying throat that can now reach our homes. Since the government has not previously notified the national assembly, opposition and Slovenian public of such an important and presidential decision, nor has it called on the National Security Council, the opposition Members have requested the convening of urgent meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Defence Committee and the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, at which the Government has been asked to explain the reasons for the decision and respond to a number of dilemmas. Unfortunately, we waited in vain for satisfactory answers. The government has not presented credible valid valid arguments to the National Assembly and the Slovenian public for its decision, which will undoubtedly affect the national security and the external political image of our country. However, in exchange, according to the political practice of the last year, we have been able to hear criticism of past decisions that are to be blamed for the ploys of the current government. However, the deployment of four Slovenian soldiers to Iraq is no logical continuation of the Government's policy, in which I myself had the opportunity to participate from April to December 2004. It is totally indisputable, and this is demonstrated by the fact that the Robb's government has never addressed such a proposal and has not sent any soldiers to Iraq. The Prime Minister has repeatedly provided this and has never broken his word. The current Minister of Defence, Erjavec, also made a public promise a few months ago that there would be no Slovenian soldiers under his ministry in Iraq. Then he turned the board, made up a story about some sort of peacekeeping mission of our soldiers in a completely safe place, withdrew the confidentiality of the three documents of 2003 and strongly crossed the borders of political and diplomatic omens. Dear Members and Members! All public surveys have shown that most of our citizens and citizens oppose the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. The vast majority also believe that this should be decided by the Slovenian Parliament. We therefore proposed an extension of the agenda of the 13th regular meeting in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia so that a government decision could also be discussed by the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the Vice-President did not allow us to vote on our proposal, because, contrary to the business arrangements, he has assessed, of course, the speedy steps, as instructed by the President of the National Assembly, that the requirement does not meet all the conditions for extending the agenda. He was not convinced by the reasoned argument that the National Assembly should discuss the decision of the Government as soon as possible, whether or not it should have understood that the hearing in the National Assembly was related to the deadline set by the Government's decision. Since it was obvious that the ruling coalition would do everything, including in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in order to prevent a democratic debate at a regular session, we have nothing left but to request, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which we today must show all parliamentary responsibility for the safety of our citizens and citizens and decide on peace and war. They could list at least 50 reasons why Slovenian soldiers are not allowed in Iraq. Let me give you a few of those. Because this war is not a humane war, but a humanitarian disaster, because it has demonstrated millions of people against this war because of Iraq's war is not more safe, but less because we are not welcome there, because two-thirds of the Iraqi population opposes the presence of the occupying forces, because Iraq is a war for some flowering business that is being flooded by blood and suffering because it has declared the war illegal even by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, so the United States is an aggressor without the support of the UN, because it does not eliminate terrorism, but it is fuelled by the fact that Iraq's war has emerged into a systematic humiliation of Iraq, the Middle East and Islam, and because we do not have to agree to the logic: Bush commands the rest but follows. On Saturday we were able to read an interview with Dr. Tinet Hribar, who said it was easy for him to say that Janez Janša helped enter the summit with his visionary work. And what the philosopher says about the departure of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq, I quote: "This is about us kneeling before the Americans, we have agreed to have a master over us." The officers and three officers were to remain in Iraq for six months, then replaced by the following four men. But that's not all. It is highly likely that within a year all 10 battalions of the Slovenian army will go to Iraq. And with the exception of the official press representative, they are convinced in the Slovenian Army that the deployment of their members to the suburbs of Baghdad is an extremely political and not a little professional decision. Of course, we cannot and must not pass on the fact that the 9 members of NATO do not have an army in Iraq and does not intend to participate in the training of Iraqi security forces. As a member of NATO, the Republic of Slovenia has already proved to be a credible partner in the resolution of the Iraqi crisis. She offered the cooperation of five Slovenian army instructors to train Iraqi security forces in a third country. After the decision of the new government, she donated more arms and equipment as well as financial contributions to the plant. But now is the time to be more actively involved in the search for a political solution to the Iraqi crisis, rather than knocking on some mini-military chests that should serve breastfeeding and not violence." We remind the current government that on 24 June 2004, the previous government decided to adapt the form and content of its engagement in the efforts of the international stabilisation community to the security and conditions of Iraq. While members of our army are at risk in international peace operations, Afghanistan, Kosovo or Bosnia and Herzegovina, the risk in Iraq is significantly higher. In addition, the security of citizens and citizens in Slovenia will deteriorate, as will the safety of those involved in the post-war reconstruction of Iraq, both within humanitarian organisations and from Slovenian companies. We therefore expect the Government of Janša today to inform us at today's meeting of the review of all the events, decisions and decisions it has adopted on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia within the NATO authorities since December 2004 and on the basis of which it has decided to participate in the training mission of the security forces in Iraq. We also have the right to know what the specific tasks of Slovenian military instructors will be, what possible direct and direct benefits for Slovenia for the participation of our army. We would like to know all relevant facts. Therefore, we also propose to the National Assembly that it adopt 7 decisions, the most important of which are two, the call on the Government to withdraw the decision on the nearly abolition of the four instructors in Iraq and, in similar cases, to convene, for the first time, the National Security Council, secondly, to notify this national assembly beforehand and, for the third time, to allow for a public debate before such a decision. Dear Members and Members, let me ask you: Will we allow ourselves to lose the most precious things that envy us in London, Madrid, New York, Milan and throughout the world, security and peaceful sleep? Is it because of the reckless, irresponsible, unnecessary and unethical conduct of the government in the Cankar Valley that the evil plague of the third millennium will befall Shentflorian: terrorism? Under the Slovenian Constitution, we are Members and Members, representatives of all the people, and we are not bound to any instructions. At least today, let us forget the political differences and take care of the national interest, the essence of which is to ensure security and avoid any action that could endanger our lives and health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, Dr. Pavlich. Mr Aurelio Juri will also speak on behalf of the candidates. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, not all colleagues, but ministers, Prime Minister, welcome. How much longer? We have heard 10, 11 days, 24th of this month, if, in the meantime, the responsibility to the safety of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens will not pave the way in this Chamber, four of our officers and officers in the role of military instructors will travel to Italy and then to Iraq. It is true that they themselves have volunteered for this mission, that they have been gathered by nine registered volunteers, that we believe that professionals are in the right sense of the word, that they know where they are going, what they are doing, and how much they are risking. We do not know their names, which should slightly increase their personal security and, of course, that is good. But we find that the mission will be more than discreet. The government itself recognises that it wants to place Slovenia visibly and recognizably among NATO members who are actively involved in the stabilisation or resolution of the situation in Iraq. The four honourable and courageous anonymists will therefore land at Baghdad airport and head to the Al Rostami training center. But the anonymous ones won't be their uniform and the flag of the country where they come from. And it is known that they will not act against the occupying forces that are still in Iraq, but will, on the contrary, be under the designation and cover of NATO, who have been involved and complemented by an Iraqi security training mission. This is a picture that will be seen by everyone in Iraq, here at home and around the world, condemning the aggression of the United States of America against this country and rejecting any form of its legitimacy. The international community, even that part of Washington's work has stigmatized, of course, could not simply raise its hand and say that the situation in Iraq should be regulated by those who started the war and the situation collapsed. To this end, the United Nations, whose authority in the preparation and execution of the attack, has been completely suppressed, has also been activated by a series of resolutions and has called upon the whole world to cooperate in overcoming the consequences of this war. And Slovenia did not remain indifferent. It responded in a credible, country-friendly and, above all, responsible manner. In forms and in ways which she has considered appropriate and for which she has also been able, with exceptional sensitivity, to reconcile the types of policy and public. She offered a group of her military and police instructors to train Iraqi security forces exclusively in a third country, offered some significant arms and several million euros of military and other assistance to Iraq. There was a compromise between the formal and moral obligations of membership in the UN and NATO and the attitude of the Slovenian public towards the crisis under consideration. Further than that, the former government knew that it must not, in particular, succumb to the pressure of the United States and its allies in this war, at the battlefield in Iraq, so that Slovenia could join them in any form. With the government's decision that we are considering today, there is a radical change in this policy. Until a turning which deviates from the existing agreement with the public and the opposition, which breaks the tormented consensus reached. We believe that the Social Democrats do not have this mandate. Not since 66% of voters and voters decided to vote [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenia joined NATO when the supporters of this link have not been able to explain how many times and ensure that entry into the Alliance did not mean taking on responsibilities, obligations and risks to Iraq. [[...]] As on the Committee on Foreign Policy, when we formally and in writing called on the Government to withdraw the referral decisions at the first meeting of the Committee, which was one month and more ago, but the rest, as well as today, unfortunately, in the minority, still insist on this call for a withdrawal today. However, as we doubt, we do not despair that there will be any further hearing from colleagues and colleagues of coalition types, we ask, I think that this request is justified, even on behalf of the concerned public, to explain more fully the circumstances and reasons for going to Iraq this time. And we have every responsibility on the government that Slovenian soldiers, if they do not withdraw the decision, will travel on a mission this time, as opposed to all the deployments to unstable areas so far, without political consensus and without public understanding, which will be all the more than good for the well-being of the four chosen. This consensus has not been sought by the government. It's not necessary to find him. For once, I know how to define myself. But we should do our best, like we've always done before. And it would not hurt if the opposition, which is also able to overcome a few minds, could perhaps overcome some alternative solution to our cooperation in stabilising Iraq. After the North Atlantic Council, let us not forget that even with the approval of our government, it has decided that training in third countries will no longer go. The signatories to the request for today's hearing of the government's decision to send four military instructors to Iraq, we do not approve and we call on the government to withdraw it, with excuses for the still acute and extremely risky security situation there. We note the consequences that may arise if the government does not do so, the safety of the four boys on the mission and the security of other Slovenian citizens and citizens who are for business and other reasons in Iraq, as well as at home, because international terrorism is not at peace and experience shows how it responds to countries that are involved in the Iraqi crisis. For these consequences, we place our full responsibility on the government and on you, colleagues and colleagues who support it in this act. Today is still time for reflection. When the Slovenian uniform and flag are on Iraqi soil, it may be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The draft conclusions were considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which prepared a complementary proposal for conclusions. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Joseph Jerovška, to present the report of the Committee. Please. Yes, I can now explain that the Committee's report reproduces and you'll get it in the next few minutes on the bench, but you can still present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u6	Good. If I may bring the report to mind [[...]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy has discussed the Government's decision to send Slovenian instructors to Iraq for the second time at today's meeting. For the first time, he was informed of the comprehensive information provided by the Government, Foreign Minister Dimitri Rupl and Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac. In this regard, the Committee has in fact looked at all aspects of the referral of Slovenian instructors to training Iraqi security forces. He concluded that this referral was made on the basis of the legislation in force and that Slovenia had only responded or was in the process of completing procedures that had been largely adopted by the previous Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, Slovenia responded to the call and resolution of the United Nations Security Council to the NATO Alliance Decision, to the assistance of the Iraqi security forces and also to the decision, to the request of the Iraqi Government. We are aware on the board that the current situation in Iraq is significantly different. There is a functioning government that has been elected democratically and helping the Iraqi government to stabilise the situation, to calm the situation and to create a situation that would ultimately mean that the Iraqi security forces could independently care for the security situation in the country, there is a legitimate reason why the entire global community, which is aware of the strategic importance of improving security in Iraq, since Europe, security in Europe, is largely dependent on this part of the world, has an enormous impact on terrorism and on the energy situation in the world. I must point out that the applicants have proposed seven conclusions that they spoke in their debate about the change in the policy of Slovenia. On the other hand, Members of the coalition parties, we have found that there is no change, that it is a continuation, that it is a continuity and possibly the only discontinuity in this respect, that the government has reduced the level of involvement or participation of Slovenian soldiers, because in the past, on the basis of known documents, the previous government has even considered a significantly larger and different role of Slovenian soldiers in Iraq. I stress once again, in this debate, a two-fold debate, which lasted almost ten hours together, all aspects have been highlighted and I think we strongly agree that Slovenia must take on its share of responsibility before the world public. These types of training forces or missions participate in Iraq from 17 countries. And Slovenia is one of the last to respond to the invitation to participate in these forces and with extremely low participation. Of course, some other countries are also involved in this training of the Iraqi security forces, with the help of their own training centres, even sometimes outside the country. Finally, the Committee adopted two decisions. The decision refers to the fact that the decision of the Government was adopted on the basis of the applicable legislation and the current orientations of the Slovenian foreign policy. The second decision sends the Government to inform the National Assembly of the possible security risks of Slovenian soldiers in Iraq after three months of sending Slovenian instructors to Iraq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. With regard to the report of the parent working body to be received at the bench, I should also point out to you that qualified applicants may submit amendments or amendments to the completed draft decisions until the end of the general debate of Members and Members. I now give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Janša to present the government's opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! It will soon be the third year, when Slovenian voters and voters in the referendum made clear and clear how we want to ensure our own security, the security of our country and the stability of the wider Euro-Atlantic area to which we belong. We have decided to link in this common concern to the North Atlantic Union, NATO, an alliance that has provided security for more than half a century, and thus conditions for the well-being and development of its members on the basis of common values. We have confirmed our confidence in the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and our desire to live in peace with all nations and governments. We have confirmed our determination to protect the freedom, common heritage and civilisation of our peoples, based on the principles of democracy, personal freedom and rule of law. If I just briefly summarize the North Atlantic Treaty, the basic document of Nate. Slovenia did not enter NATO in March 2004 with a fig in its pocket. Already the basis of Slovenia's invitation to the Prague Summit was the finding that Slovenia is ready and able to fulfil its role as an ally and share the responsibilities of membership. Never in the pre-referendum debates has it been understood that Slovenia only wants to be a consumer of security. I am pleased that today we can find that Slovenia has taken on its full ally role. Our current contribution is viewed in grave numbers as a contribution from a smaller Member State and is objectively sufficiently solid. This is how it was in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is in Kosovo, so it is in Afghanistan, so it will be in Iraq. Since the end of the four decades of the cold war, when NATO has successfully ensured peace in Europe and the freedom of its members and the emergence of new asymmetric threats by countries on our continent, such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of a failed state, then it has begun to face new challenges. The Alliance estimates that the main source of threats will be the threat to the citizens of the Member States and other countries in the next ten and fifteen years. From a static alliance based on great territorial forces, NATO was forced to turn into a dynamic alliance capable of mediating everywhere where threats to the security of its members came from. In parallel with the transformation of forces in other countries, the transformation of the Slovenian army is also taking place. Peace, security and development are now much more intertwined and intertwined in the global world than ever before, and cooperation and coordination between international organisations concerned with crisis prevention and resolution is of paramount importance. In this context, NATO is deepening its cooperation with the United Nations, the European Union and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. At the same time, the United Nations Security Council retains the primary responsibility for international peace and security. Although the foundation of the Alliance is still Article 5 of the Northern Treaty, the Atlantic Treaty, which provides collective defence for members, required modern international conditions, at the same time allowing NATO to engage much more in conflict prevention and crisis relief, not only in support of peace or military support for post-conflict reconstruction and development, but also in close cooperation with the United Nations and the European Union, but also in humanitarian and natural disasters, have become NATO every day. He then stopped the sea in Bosnia and Herzegovina, prevented the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo, calmed the situation in Macedonia, helped establish Afghanistan's stability, prevented the proliferation of terrorism and weapons of mass destruction in the Mediterranean, jumped to help with the tsunamis in Asia two weeks ago, then completed the disaster relief operation in Pakistan. Then it offers air defence at major international events, such as the last annual Olympic Games in Athens or this year's World Cup in football in Germany. At the request of the African Union since last year, NATO has been providing logistical support to the forces of this organisation in calming the situation in Darfur. With all this activity of the Alliance of Slovenia, of course, it cannot become a cross. The success of NATO in each mission in the operation for which it is decided depends also on the consent and the contribution of Slovenia. With this conviction, we have entered into an alliance, and we believe in it today. Your Honor! Our support to NATO's training mission of the Iraqi security forces was our conscious decision. For such assistance, the President of the Interim Government of Alavi, in accordance with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, requested NATO in June 2004. On this basis, the Presidents of governments or countries, including Slovenia, offered NATO assistance at the NATO Summit in Istanbul on 28 June 2004 to train Iraqi security forces. At the time of the decision to launch NATO's military education mission to Iraq, it was mainly due to the interest of some allies, including Slovenia, that training would take place outside Iraq in some third countries in the region. The North Atlantic Council commissioned NATO military authorities to study the training options in Jordan and to draw up military advice in this regard. The substance of this advice, when produced, was that the use of Jordanian facilities would require significant resources for which there is no available resources, that the Iraqi authorities' interest in training in Jordan is not demonstrated and that the capacity to establish in Iraq alone is sufficient. On the basis of this advice, the NATO Military Committee advised the North Atlantic Council not to establish a military training centre in Jordan until further notice. At a meeting of the North Atlantic Council on 13 April 2005, the Slovenian Permanent Representative and a permanent representative of another ally expressed further interest in training the Iraqi security forces in Jordan or in any other country in the region, but remained isolated. By adopting that decision, no ally has been closed down for training in Jordan, but the ally should organise and finance the training itself. And here you have to pour yourself some pure wine. If we wanted to achieve our intention so far, to contribute to the training of the Iraqi security forces by training outside Iraq, this would be too much of an organisational, security and financial supply for us, as well as for a ten-fold larger country. Just for comparison. This year's operational investment costs of NATO's training mission in Iraq will be around 10 billion Slovenian tolars, of which Slovenia will cover 0.25% and 29.75% of the remaining 25 Member States, NATO. If Slovenia had established such a centre itself, it should have provided at least one third of the sum mentioned. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia participates in the regular session on 12.1. this year, the information that this was done at a written meeting, together with many other references in the drafting of the drafters, is not true; the Government has therefore decided at its regular meeting on 12 January this year, on the basis of its constitutional and legal powers, to send four officers or Slovenian military officers to the NATO training mission, because, for the first time, the UN Security Council, by its resolutions, has given all the necessary international legal legitimacy to such a mission; secondly, because Slovenia has already accepted an obligation two years ago to participate in the training of the Iraqi security forces; thirdly, because, from April 2005 to January 2006, it has not opened the possibility of joint NATO training in the neighbouring country; fourthly, Slovenia itself has not been able to pay the costs of training in the neighbouring country; and fifthly, because the security of the six-year-long-long-term training arrangements for Slovenia have been in the six-day period of training. I am sure that members of the Slovenian army will also perform this important task. I am proud that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are committed to serving their country, helping to address crises in unstable areas and contributing to the consolidation of world peace. Then he's not all-powerful. Only what his members are willing to contribute financially and with human resources can he do. Since we became a member, we have often witnessed a gap between political ambitions and also high expectations, where all of NATO could help, and concrete contributions from members to the operations themselves. The Slovenian contribution so far has not been insignificant. We will also continue to make every effort to ensure that the Alliance is also successful in our cooperation in its missions and operations in support of peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Dimitrij Rupel will continue to present the government's views.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u10	Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, colleague, colleague! In my opinion, as soon as possible, I will focus on the foreign policy dimension of the matter which is the subject of our debate. This is a mission, i.e. the operation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation called NATO and it is known that Slovenia is a member of this organisation. The purpose of this operation is to train Iraqi security forces. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to take part, in accordance with its options and competences, in particular in accordance with its decisions or decisions and recommendations of international organisations, from the UN to NATO and the European Union to which it is a member, in participating in this mission or operation. Slovenia will participate in this company with four soldiers. It is therefore a relatively modest cooperation, but Slovenia is thus showing solidarity with a certain policy of a certain part of the international community. I will try to describe this policy as clearly as possible. First and foremost, it is Iraq's policy after the December elections. In order to be able to reform, and in particular in order to be fully modernised, to become a democratic and successful country, Iraq needs, in addition to everything else, the military and political support of the international community and the redesigned own security forces. Then it is a policy of international organisations such as the UN and NATO, which in addition to a stable Iraq also want stability in the wider region, this is said from the Mediterranean to the Caspian Sea. Here we are talking about the neighborhood of our wider country of the European Union. This is a group of countries with a common policy, a common policy of European countries, the United States of America and some other allies. This is an extremely important but highly sensitive part of the world, which contains cultural and material treasures, as well as many contradictions and even hatred. As we see, there are many conflicting interests here that are linked to strategic, energy, development, political and, as we have seen recently, cultural interests. I am referring to the cultural struggle triggered by the media insults of Muslim prophets. In the international community, there is a growing awareness of the interrelationship of many phenomena, the awareness of the so-called big picture. After all, it's not just oil and gas, it's also nuclear energy and nuclear weapons. It is not only about protecting, as far as possible, the free flow of information, but about political discretion, maintaining strategic balance and avoiding conflicts that could cause global fire. Once, at the beginning of our independence, Slovenia was attributed to introverting and egoism. Personally, I've always refused such an observation whenever possible. If I am not mistaken, all the Slovenian governments in which I participated have rejected the evidence that Slovenians want to drive for free or that we want to wait in the shelter until the storm passes. We never really thought that we could avoid global or perhaps even regional problems. Of course, I do not want to hide the fact that they were in Slovenian politics and that there were serious differences in the involvement of Slovenia in international relations and businesses between the institutions of state functions. Remember the hesitation at the beginning of the seclusion and remember the hesitation in deciding to become a member of NATO. But after all, we agreed somehow, and that also made us successful. In my opinion, it would be useful if we did not hesitate too much today to participate in this latest project. I think it would be right to say that this cooperation is the continuation of our policy to date, which is, after all, true. I see that some Members think that this is a breakthrough, a kind of departure from the foreign policy strategy so far. This would mean that Slovenia has so far avoided responsibility for the stabilisation of Iraq, the Middle East, the Mediterranean and the European neighbourhood and that only our current government has been aware of these responsibilities. Personally, I don't think that's true, but I would like to draw attention to the political risk that an assessment would bring about that the former government has avoided liability. Some Members, as we have heard, even some prominent philosophers believe that this government is leaning too far in the American direction, while it should be treated more in France and Germany. This assumption is wrong. The mission crew I spoke about also includes France and Germany, but these two countries contribute much more in accordance with their powerful forces. For example, Germany has around €5 billion and is training 2 000 Iraqis. With regard to the foreign policy of these two countries, Germany and France, for example, I say with all responsibility that they are not different from ours or from NATO, although they have both experienced a serious crisis and a failure to vote precisely because of the hesitation in politics towards the United States and NATO. The election results in the case of the French referendum and in the case of the German federal parliamentary elections have ruined the policy of rejecting the US. Slovenia wants the best relations and close cooperation with the US, regardless of the direction of this administration or one. We need to look at our relations with the United States of America within a large picture that contains history and merit. The United States gave home to many Slovenes when their own homeland rejected them. The Americans helped Slovenia in difficult times when it was a crisis in relations with neighbouring countries, not to mention the collapse of Yugoslavia. And that's actually all I wanted to say on this occasion. I wish that Slovenians and, above all, Slovenian politicians should be as united and coherent as possible in international relations. In this case, we will be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u11	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He's got a word. I'm sorry. Mr Karl Erjavec will present the government's opinion in due course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u12	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Slovenia, by joining NATO, ensures its security within the framework of collective defence mechanisms. We also guarantee our security by implementing and participating in NATO peace support missions outside the borders of Slovenia. Today, the entire international community is involved in Iraq's post-war reconstruction activities, with the United Nations playing a major role. The European Union and NATO are also making efforts to increase stability and peace in Iraq. The last informal meeting of NATO Defence Ministers, held at the end of the week in Italy, showed that NATO's mission in Iraq would become even more important and even more relevant and also the key to resolving the crisis in Iraq. Iraq needs assistance in establishing fundamental security. And this aid can and will only contribute to the alliance. The question is repeatedly raised why the government has decided to send four instructors of the Slovenian army to Iraq. The Republic of Slovenia is a member of NATO and there is no doubt that we want to be a credible and credible and responsible member by also contributing to world peace, to the stabilisation of crisis areas. If members of NATO deny responsibilities or obligations to NATO, the question of NATO’s existence is also raised. Finally, this raises the question of the purpose of our membership in NATO. Solidarity within NATO member states in contributing capacity is one of the key elements of the NATO relationship. Your Honor! At the strategic level, cooperation in the NATO mission in Iraq means accelerating the stabilisation of the region and, in particular, decisive assistance to the Iraqi Government to ensure stability and security in its territory in the final phase with its own security institutions and mechanisms. We estimate that the contribution to the establishment of autonomous Iraqi security institutions and long-term stability in Iraq and the region justify the deployment in the form we have decided. The guiding principle of the training mission of the Iraqi security forces is that decisions are taken by the Iraqis themselves, and then it has an advisory role to play. In 2005, approximately 1000 Iraqi officers were trained in Iraq and the number is expected to be higher this year. The purpose of this mission is to assist the Iraqi Government in the process of taking over and carrying out security tasks throughout Iraq. All NATO Member States shall participate in the reconstruction of Iraq according to their capabilities. 14 NATO members are currently participating in the US-led coalition forces. At present, 16 Member States are participating in the NATO mission in Iraq. From the new members of Iraq, it does not only cooperate with Slovenia. The fact is that it is up to Member States to participate in peacekeeping operations, taking into account all the above arguments and the fact that only four logistics and human resources instructors are sent to Iraq, I can assess with great objectivity that this is certainly a minimal and acceptable contribution for Slovenia. This directive will not put our citizens at greater risk. The formal basis for the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in this NATO mission is the internal legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the Defence Act, the decisions of the North Atlantic Council of NATO and, last but not least, the relevant Security Council resolution of the United Nations. Four members of the Slovenian Army who will work in the field of logistics and personnel will be referred to the mission on 24 February 2006. In this mission, they will carry out their tasks for six months with the possibility of rotation. We will be able to use acquired knowledge and experience in future similar alliance missions. We are aware that the deployment of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to Iraq within the framework of the activities then is a difficult and potentially dangerous task, but the operation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in other peacekeeping operations is also dangerous; in Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan. The Slovenian army is a professional army whose reputation and competence have been constantly strengthened through international operations, so I have no doubt that the four instructors will carry out their tasks very well. In doing so, we will give them all the support we need at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Erjavac. The following are the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! Ambassadors and Members of the Government! On 24 March 2003, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group addressed a letter to the President of the current National Assembly, Borut Pahor, expressing the wish that the point of content, the attitude of Slovenia towards Iraq or in connection with the Iraqi crisis should be allocated to the meeting of the National Assembly. The answer, when the time was right for this, was negative even before Slovenia accepted its obligations to the military organisation. The National Assembly then accepted a milder form of solution and accepted a declaration. But at a given moment, so before joining NATO, this state council refused to hold a debate. He did not want to hold a debate because all political parties then opposed it in the national assembly, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party. Today, six years later, we see that half of the political parties, the half who lost power at that time, have changed their position and want to "post festivals" today after Slovenia already has obligations, to hold this debate or to carry out it now. In his introduction, the proposaler gave, according to my assessment, a correct presentation, that the government's conduct when sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq as a follow-up to sending children on vacation is about the same responsibility, i.e. some kind of ease. However, in agreement, I must add that the entire Slovenian policy during the period of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO has taken this activity as easily as the government of Janez Janša has taken the assignment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. According to my assessment, things about ease haven't changed. The government is now easily deciding on the entry of 2 million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia into military organisation and today, with this same ease, the government of Janez Janš increases the risk of the Republic of Slovenia from possible attacks. I'm not going to say that this risk has increased by 100%, as I've heard of the proponents. However, I estimate that the risk of the Republic of Slovenia from such activities will, of course, increase for a few steps. Let me, however, in conjunction with this point, for the sake of easier understanding not only of Members and Members, not only because of the representatives of the government, but mainly because of the viewers and viewers of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, try to describe as chronologically as possible according to my assessment of the comedy or tragedy in connection with NATO, which is taking place in our country. The transfer of responsibility and the political bluffing of individual political actors who have participated in the above-mentioned stories and are participating today. So at 6.24 p.m., a vote was held on whether Slovenia should sign a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. Again, to the NATO military organization. At that time, the National Assembly adopted a solution to the decision of citizens and citizens. With a strong majority, of the 54 Members present, 53 supported the idea of making final decisions in the hands of citizens and citizens, and 10 Members - or also a Member in the middle - objected to this decision. Thus, 10 Members objected to the fact that our citizens and citizens would have a decisive role to play in joining NATO. And since there are only 10 of them, allow me to mention them: the current Member, today's Minister Janez Drobnič, the present-day Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša, former Member Branko Kelemina, former Member Mamić Ivan, today's and former Member Rudolf Petan, today's and former Member of Parliament Pavel Rupar, today's and former Member of Aloyz Sok, today's and former Ambassador Tanko Jože, former Member of the Tisovec Mary Ana and former Member of the Zupan Majda. Back then, we actually knew that, regardless of the availability of citizens and citizens, once the power is replaced, the activities associated with NATO will increase the activities of the Republic of Slovenia, and some I know that you will not attach to this because of direct television transmission, in the aggressive game played by Slovenia in the international field. As you probably know, the current speech, which was very rich both in the media and in the other social area of the Republic of Slovenia, took place under the pretext: "Home in Europe, safe in NATO." All the agitators you have performed for Slovenia's entry into NATO spoke exclusively about the positive value of NATO. As the Slovenian economy improves, it will become even more competitive if Slovenia joins the NATO military organisation. However, no one, except the representatives of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, spoke about the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia towards this club or military organisation. Because the fact is that if Slovenia or anyone else joins such an organization, it will not only win, but also bear. And the task of responsible policy or responsible Slovenian policy would be to weigh what is what reflects more strongly the interests of our country. But whenever and wherever the representatives of the National Party spoke about the obligations, future obligations of our country to be financially, and the candidates for the extraordinary meeting even referred to the financial obligations that Slovenian nationals and citizens have towards NATO or even to intervention in Iraq, then we warned the National Party also about the personnel or military requirements of Slovenian soldiers when it comes to such war or postwar hotspots. At the time, it was very interesting, when we spoke at least by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group about obligations, the negative sides of NATO's military organization, that today's President of Liberal Democracy, Mr Jelko Kacin, the then Member of Liberal Democracy and said, quote: "The topic we are dealing with is difficult is attractive, it is useful." Also useful for accounting among political parties. So at the time, you who were competing to join NATO were saying that anyone disagreed with you and anyone who predicted what today turned out to be the right thing to expect Slovenia to be an active participant in the crisis in Iraq, and you were just saying that it was only gathering political points. It is acceptable, not for citizens and citizens, but at least for the political party of the Slovenian National Party, at least an apology by this gentleman, Jelka Kacin. But of course, his perception of the political situation at home and abroad is catastrophic, according to our assessment. The outcome of the referendum itself speaks. Of course, we cannot change the outcome of the referendum, nor do we want to change it in the National Party. The fact is that 637 000 882 voters and voters, in other words 66.8%, decided to join the military organisation of Slovenia. 327 thousand 463 electors, in other words 33.92%, decided against it. Of course, in the National Party, we are not going to discuss why this has happened, because in fact we all know, because then, this day also showed us, the citizens and the citizens were faced with the wrong facts, the complicated facts. Before those facts that said that Slovenia would gain only security, it would have no costs and no obligation. From here, all of you should apologize to Slovenian citizens and citizens. However, the 34th meeting of the National Assembly, held on 24 February 2004, was of course very important to improve the presentation of the past event. So the meeting where the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, addressed the law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. So, the most basic and most important act of involvement of Slovenia in the NATO military organization. At 11 p.m. and 51 minutes, of course, with much, unfortunately, a large majority confirmed the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus voted in favour of the approval or approval of the National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, with the intention of the executive branch of power. In this regard, let me point out that at the 73 present Members and Members of Parliament that day, 68 Members and Members voted in favour. And the vast majority of these 68 Members and Members have changed their position to this day. And only three opposed it, only three, one Member and two Members of Parliament, then opposed such a decision by the National Assembly, which we see today as truly wrong. And these were: Member of SNS Areh Lavrič Sonja, Member of the Slovenian National Party Bogdan Barovic and I, also as Member of the Slovenian National Party. Two of the Members abstained. Probably because of their disagreement, they were the Victory of the Elinčič nobles and the Member of Aurelio Juri. But more interesting are the quotations or current speeches of individual representatives, including representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the importance, complexity and urgency of such adoption of the proposal for a law on ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty for Slovenia. For if Slovenia did not do so then, in their words, some of them will later quote, it is clear that Slovenia would not be able to fall short in 24 hours, both economically and culturally, and in primary school and, of course, also in the pension area. Such were the views of the Slovenian Government and unfortunately also the views of a large part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As part of his performance, the Prime Minister assessed that on 24 February 2004, Slovenia had another very important event, i.e. the ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty. And in order to ensure better, safer and better quality of life for Slovenian citizens and citizens, in order to accelerate economic growth and to strengthen the international role, we have made every effort to cooperate actively and equally in international organisations and institutions. The decision to join NATO has thus become an essential component of all citizens and citizens and government programmes in the last 11 years. Those were the words of the Prime Minister back then. So that all citizens and citizens have taken this stand, although we know that the referendum has shown a strong deviation from these words, and even though today we see that the great speakers were in the period before the referendum, when opponents or those who wanted Slovenia to become an integral part of the military machine called Nato, you did not allow the opponents to object with today's evidence that it would also require Slovenia's active participation of Slovenian soldiers, but then, of course, you opposed it or you did not agree to such concerns and labeled them as cheap populism. Unfortunately, the fact is that at the time there was also a large part of the media on your side and it took the views of all political parties, I am not talking just now about Liberal Democracy, about how we will, again in the slogans, "we will be poor in 24 hours unless we enter the NATO organization". Even an interesting sentence is one that speaks the same way by the Prime Minister of the day: "Today we join the association of democratic and developed countries." Remember the sentence, because later I will quote one of the sentences as part of the explanation for today's extraordinary session. There are many more flowers in the context of the current Magnographic Record or the event that took place in the National Assembly. Almost every member who then spoke about the importance of NATO for the cultural development of the Republic of Slovenia or of primary schools, however you wish, was spared. You can see that today. In order not to touch only the then Prime Minister, who was only one of the players, or he was acting as Prime Minister, but the comments were very interesting and very interesting, and the views of some others were very interesting, we need to get back together with Mr Jelko Kacin, who was saying that today's decision on Liberal Democracy, as has often been decisively supported once again by our entry into NATO. She strongly supported our entry into NATO. Today, a few years later, this determination is very vague, this determination is almost gone, given that you now want those commitments that you have undertaken and for which you have not even allowed them to object to the argument, blur your determination. In the performances of members of the Slovenian National Party on the day I mentioned before, we have given you our concerns, that is, from Slovenia entering the military organisation, that Slovenia is not threatened, by third countries, that Slovenia is not threatened, because of the rich oil deposits within our country, because the fact is that mostly those countries that have some natural wealth are threatened, but are threatened by the interests of capital, always and entirely by the United States of America and, of course, by those countries that are blindly following them for this or that reason. But that Slovenia would have at least a good reason to follow the United States of America, but it does not, except that we are sometimes replaced for Slovakia there and that the President of the United States of America is quite a regular guest in the humorist broadcast Hribar. But if this is a good enough argument to support such aggressions against those countries that have natural wealth and that want to imbue such wealth in a normal market way - I don't think so. And as for today's extraordinary session. I must say that we are a bit disappointed at the base of the Slovenian National Party Group, but we have become quite accustomed to this disappointment that the initiators of the extraordinary meeting did not want to extend the callers' circle and only joined the two political parties, namely, the Social Democrats' Group and the Liberal Democracy Group. According to our assessment, this does not shed a very good light on the subject, especially because these two political parties, once a government party, were so committed and so negligently advocated the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO military organisation. As far as the material proposed or proposed for today's hearing is concerned, and as regards the proposal for decisions to be taken at the meeting of the national assembly on all seven decisions - we will support them in the National Party if there is no significant change during the debate, but I do not believe that there will be substantial changes. This will, of course, continue the policy of the Slovenian National Party in the past, so that Slovenia does not deserve cooperation and should not afford it in military operations, not at home, not in our neighbouring countries, but in those countries that are thousands and thousands of kilometres away. However, the explanation for the proposed extraordinary meeting is very interesting. In the first part, the applicants note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to take this step on the basis of a resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations and the decision of the United Nations and the subsequent association and obligations arising from the international treaties and all that Slovenia has adopted. Emphasis is "and obligations". This is the first time that the applicants recognise that Slovenia has taken on its obligations. If the applicants recognise this at a time when Slovenian citizens and citizens have decided whether to enter NATO and thus assume obligations, I personally believe that it would be a different referendum outcome and that today it would not be necessary for Slovenia to have military or military capabilities, not only with weapons and ammunition, which we have already done in the past, but also with life in the context of the Iraqi crisis. We are secondly informed by the proponents that, as far as the participation of the five instructors and others is concerned, the equipment provided by Slovenia in the area of crisis was automatic and sniper rifles with appropriate bullets, mortars and military helmets of EUR 5 million. And that the financial contribution, of course, was much smaller, probably due to the transparency of the work of only EUR 100,000. It is interesting, however, that the then government of the Republic of Slovenia has never talked about Nate’s anticipated costs, that it has never talked about Slovenia’s sending weapons, mines and helmets during the entire pre-referendum campaign on the matter. And to hurry up a little bit. I would also like to touch on the next decision that the applicants are offering us for admission and which we will support in the National Party for the sake of principle policy - not like others who put the daily policy on number one before the programmes and opinions or the thinking of individual political parties. This is a claim that the Republic of Slovenia has never agreed to a military intervention in Iraq. Of course, that won't hold. As you probably know, Slovenia was a signatory to the Vilnius Declaration to the signing of the current minister, who is also today, Mr Rupl. The fact is that at that time, in 2003, Slovenia, in the eyes of the international public, in the eyes of the 'great brother', accepted or submitted to that position that it had become a supporter of the attack on Iraq. At the same time, of course, which is also very interesting, the applicants also note that the attack on Iraq was unjustifiable, unjustified and wrong. So all those people who once signed documents that were so bad that they included Slovenia in the matter. At the same time, let me say that we are from the National Assembly, from the Prime Minister, even in that period, as far as the Vilnius Declaration itself was concerned, asking that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia decide to withdraw, but that was not the case. I do not blame the conduct so far and the direction of the Slovenian soldiers of the former Prime Minister. Far from it. I believe he's done some things in good faith. I think the main culprit is the current Slovenian government. I know that it is the main culprit for this kind of action by the current Slovenian government. And as for the departure of four, the emphasis, the volunteers; indeed, they are volunteers. Their decision is whether to go to Iraq or not, because eventually, there may be a reason to pay. Maybe I won't get into this. I'm not competent, and I wouldn't hope to get into it. But the fact is that this will have wider consequences, the consequences that Slovenian armed men will enter foreign territory, the territory that is in a very critical situation, especially with regard to the thinking, who is the aggressor, who is not the aggressor. And from this title, I believe that the level of threat will increase for a few moments. Once again, the error in the area of defence policy is the current Slovenian and the error in the international field of the current Slovenian government is that they have decided to make such a non-transparent and, at my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, unnecessary decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. In recent days, the Government's decision to send four Slovenian Army instructors to NATO to train Iraqi security forces in Iraq has raised a lot of dust in political, professional and lay public opinion. It is clear from the superficial monitoring of these controversy that the government's decision has raised at least two separate issues. The first is substantive and relates exclusively to the correctness or irregularity of the political decision on Slovenian military engagement in Iraq, while the second is more procedural in nature and draws attention to government procedures when making such decisions. To discuss such a sensitive and overheating issue, however, the most important thing is to be able to speak and listen responsibly. From this point of view, the opposition's efforts and success in sending members of the Slovenian army to Iraq to hold a debate in the National Assembly do not seem to be controversial. She can even be useful. We need the right arguments for an objective and patient debate as far as possible, so I will continue to give some facts in this regard. First time. The government's decision to send four Slovenian Army instructors to NATO - training Iraqi security forces in Iraq is in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and laws. Another time. This decision is also supported by international law, by the United Nations Security Council resolution, the decision of the NATO North Atlantic Council and the official invitations and requests of the Iraqi authorities. Third time. After all, the decision of the current government is also linked to a number of public and transitional government decisions in this regard. Fourth time. Slovenian military instructors will operate in Iraq in NATO's training mission of the Iraqi security forces. Fifth. Slovenian soldiers in Iraq will not participate in combat operations under the so-called "voluntary coalition". Six. The Slovenian State is also helping to stabilise the situation in Iraq in other ways, such as through cash assistance and with donations of arms to the Iraqi armed forces. The Republic of Slovenia is a sovereign country, a member of the United Nations and a number of international organisations and connections. We've been a NATO member for two years. For our membership in NATO, citizens and citizens decided to take part in the referendum, and the National Assembly respected the will of the people by ratifying the North Atlantic Treaty. So we belong in the so-called Western world, in a circle of developed countries. Every responsible citizen knows that when we become an equal member of the international community and, for example, NATO, we have adopted certain advantages of membership in international relations and at the same time certain obligations. From this point of view, the government's decision is understandable. If we are to be a trusted and credible partner of the Alliance, we must also make less pleasant commitments. Let us just remember how hard it was to expect or somehow just to ask for international support and assistance at the time of independence. And to everyone who supported us back then, we were very grateful. There is no reason in DeSUS for the Republic of Slovenia to implement the opposite policy today. We believe that, according to our ability, we are obliged to contribute to the assistance of the international community or countries that need it. We understand the opposition's arguments that Iraq's issue is a particular and more sensitive issue, but we must also separate here between our political position on the security and geostrategic decisions of the international community and the attitude towards the policies and roles of the United States in global policy. We also believe in DeSUS that the United States military intervention in Iraq without authorization in the UN Security Council and with false arguments was a mistake in US policy. However, it is also necessary to add to this the fact that the US military did not intervene in a democratic country, but in a country ruled by a totalitarian dictatorial regime that totally denied the rule of law and respect for human rights. Despite this mistake, however, the international community is obliged to stabilise the situation in Iraq and allow the inhabitants there to live a safe and normal life. By sending military instructors to train and train their own defence forces, Slovenia will contribute to the normalisation of the situation in Iraq. In the long run, the situation in Iraq will only be settled by the Americans taking responsibility for all segments of their country's operation and then international presence, and thus ours, will no longer be necessary there. The opposition's claims that the security situation in Slovenia will deteriorate considerably because of our engagement in Iraq are legitimate and the question is whether they are real. The government ensures that our security will not change significantly in anything. Personally, I don't see any reason not to believe her. After all, the Slovenian Army has been present for some time in international operations in countries where the Islamic element is dominant or at least very strong: Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo. Of course, we must be realistic and acknowledge that there is no absolute security in today's globalised world even against terrorism. In the DeSUS Group, we cannot accept attempts to intimidate the Slovenian public in this regard. As to the way the government has taken a decision to send members of the Slovenian army to Iraq, I have already mentioned that the procedures have been carried out in accordance with the law. The Law on the Defence of the Government gives the authority to monitor such decisions independently. The President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, was also informed of the government's decision and agreed with it. The two Committees of the National Assembly also held a discussion. Of course, we can now discuss whether it would be more appropriate for the government to hold a broader debate in Parliament and the public on this matter. Personally, I think this would be useful, but I must point out that it is entirely inappropriate for lawful government actions to be judged unacceptable and wrong. In my opinion, the opposition's allegations of a change in the government's political exchange in foreign and security policy are unfounded. The Republic of Slovenia has indeed radically changed the political course, but two years ago, when we joined the friendly Allied countries within NATO. Today's policy is just a logical continuation of the decision and a real change in Slovenian foreign policy would be just a decision to get out of NATO. But there's something else I want to say. Over the past few weeks, there has been a lot of negative government decisions about the Slovenian Army, what the Slovenian Army will do in Iraq, what four soldiers can do, because they will take more care of themselves than others, that soldiers are not trained enough to be sent in danger of failing their tasks and others. It used to be pretty rude. We must be aware that in the coming days Slovenian soldiers, members of the Slovenian Army and not some campers will go to Iraq. These boys, and certainly their superiors, are still aware of all the dangers they face and the obligation of the Slovenian public to support the Slovenian Army. Despite the various political views on Slovenia's role in international operations, we owe it to these boys, to send a message to Slovenian soldiers that we support them in carrying out their tasks and wish them all the best and, of course, a happy return home. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the DeSUS Group, on account of all the Government's arguments and explanations, supports its decision to send members of the Slovenian army under NATO's auspices to the Iraqi security forces training mission in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the request of LDS and Social Democracy to discuss the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the NATO Security Forces Training Mission in Iraq stresses that such a debate does not conflict because it believes that the debate will help to inform the Slovenian public objectively of the reasons for such a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that this debate will help to reject the instigation and clarify the fog that the opposition has systematically made public since the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course with a view to intimidating the Slovenian public, collecting cheap political points and blurring views and decisions of the current opposition at a time when the government itself was responsible for the international situation of Slovenia, for the credibility and credibility of the state. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 12 January 2006, when it decided that, within the framework of the NATO mission for training Iraqi security forces, four military instructors would be sent to the NATO Centre in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the interests of the State. It is the completion of procedures already initiated by the previous government. The previous government adopted a decision on the training of the Iraqi security forces, at that time in the territory of Jordan. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group strongly rejects the proposalers' findings that the policy on training the Iraqi security forces is changing. We strongly reject the insinuation that Slovenian soldiers in Iraq will be in the role of invaders. These insinuations are publicized by some people who have always been considered LDS protagonists and LDS interpreters. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is pleased to note that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has resigned from the observation of the government by sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq as occupying forces within the Danish Corps. There are a lot of documents on such activities of the previous government and on such purposes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the Government has rightly decided to help stabilise Iraq, in this regard, we need to be aware of the strategic importance of Iraq and the entire area. It is of the utmost importance that this area is Pacificed as soon as possible, that the Iraqi security forces are able to take care of security themselves in their own country, and in this regard, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are clearly aware of the importance of peace in this area for the whole of Europe, for the whole world and the vital importance of this area for the energy supply of Slovenia, Europe and the world. It is therefore right that Slovenia assumes its share of responsibility and this responsibility cannot be avoided by a credible, credible member of the European Union, the United Nations Organization and the Security Alliance. In this regard, Dr Ljubica Jelošič, head of the Faculty of Defence, emphasises, quote: "The professional view has been clear since autumn 2004 that Slovenia will not be able to stay long off the list of participants in Iraq. The fact is that Slovenia, as one of the last members of NATO and the European Union, is taking decisions on assistance in training the Iraqi security forces." Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we reject the untrue assertion by the applicants that this is a government decision that is a matter of precedent. Following the decision of the government, we are witnessing the systematic intimidation of the Slovenian public regarding the security threat of Slovenia as a country and of Slovenian soldiers. In the SDS we are aware that participation in missions recommended by the Security Council of the United Nations, the NATO Alliance and the Iraqi Government, of course, poses a certain security risk, but such thinking and intimidation by the LDS and the opposition is totally inconvenient and completely contrary to the conduct of the same policies and the same parties at a time when the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia led the government. Such conduct is also totally contrary to the conduct of the then government when it comes to informing the national assembly of the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Afghanistan, such as the conduct. I would also like to point out that the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Afghanistan in this regard was unprecedented because it was a mission outside Europe. And see, on 22.5.2003, the then government adopted a decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the ISAF4 peace operation in Afghanistan. Regarding the comparison of practices, the Foreign Policy Committee, the then International Relations Committee, was informed on 6 June 2003, without the envisaged agenda item and without discussion. I note that, in view of the fact that some ministers of the then government, Mr Rob, Mr Školč, Mr Gantar, have avoided today's debate on the Foreign Policy Committee, that they are aware that they have overlooked how duplicative the current conduct is, because it is necessary to say that the security risks of Slovenian soldiers in Afghanistan are greater than are likely to be in Afghanistan where the Slovenian Army participates in the mission in Iraq on the ground, while the Slovenian instructors in Iraq will be placed in a closed training centre where there has been no incident so far. The two-pronged behaviour of the current opposition on the government's decision to send Slovenian instructors is also reflected in the other decisions taken by the previous governments. The practice introduced by the LDS-led government regarding Parliament's information is significantly different. In this regard, I must state that one of the previous governments decided on 11.10.1998 to provide the airspace of the Republic of Slovenia for the flight of aircraft in NATO air operations. We did not object to this at the time, nor do we question this decision today, but it is necessary to say that a constitutional dispute was brought on such a decision, which the Constitutional Court, however, rejected the initiators because they had no legal interest. However, the Constitutional Court finds that the Government of that time acted unlawfully. In order to do so or to conclude an international treaty ratified by the National Assembly or to adopt a special law. It is only for us today to draw attention to this duality of the current opposition, which was at the time in a different role, and I stress once again, we do not question the different decisions of the government, even then we could have acted in the same destructive positions as the present opposition, but we have not done so in the interests of the state. And I think it is high time that the proponents are aware of the whole aspect of Slovenia's international relations and involvement in these international relations. In the SDS Group of Members, we can state on the ground that the opposition is acting unconstitutionally to undermine Slovenia's reputation and credibility as members of the United Nations and NATO and the European Union. It is an attempt to muck Slovenia before the international community. We can also argue that if the Slovenian Democratic Party, when preparing for the referendum on membership in NATO, acted so irresponsiblely and with similar political objectives and non-stately, Slovenia today would not be a member of NATO and would not have a guaranteed security alliance. We therefore call and note that it is time for unity, country-building and not for duality and anarchy. I would also like to point out that NATO Slovenia is sending professional soldiers to the mission, who will also transfer the experience of the Slovenian army to the Iraqi security forces, which is useful for the professional army. The Slovenian army will also certainly be gaining experience and will become even more valued within the framework of the alliances. The current conduct of the LDS and Social Democracy is an incredible precedent for the consensus on the international conduct of the Republic of Slovenia. So far, in the history of the new country, we have not had cases of such radical political parties. To this point, most political parties have represented a consistent position, a consistent practice, not willing to be subject to the political interests of the day and to change through the night of their decisions. Therefore, on this occasion, we call on the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to have a responsible attitude and to inform the Slovenian public. The Slovenian Government has decided on the basis of laws, responsible and in accordance with the interests of the State. Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, of course, we trust in the professionalism and responsibility of the Slovenian army and the Slovenian soldiers, who will be posted and we wish them success and much happiness, once again in the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, that we are surprised at the opposition's conduct so far in this matter, which is so important for the country when it comes to the country's credibility, the credibility of the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u20	Your Honor! No international obligation and no moral imperative forces Slovenia into an act which is the subject of today's extraordinary meeting. The decision to send four Slovenian soldiers to Iraq is also no logical continuation of the policies of the previous governments, as is well heard and even the arguments for the conclusions for this referral based on previous "tobo" decisions. It is interesting that the current government, which has devoted much of its mandate to criticising the previous government, especially the latter, and also to all others, has been apologizing for its decision to send military instructors to Iraq, is looking directly at the alleged robbery policy or policy of the Robbery Government, which is supposed to lead this way. It is undeniable that during the period immediately after the occupation of Iraq and before the start of the guerrilla war there were several discussions at the prime level and then at the ministerial level on the possibility of involving a small group of Slovenian soldiers in the Danish contingent. However, it is equally indisputable that the government of Rop never addressed such a proposal, that it did not send any Slovenian soldiers to Iraq, and that the then prime minister had also repeatedly made this public and had not broken his words. Even more so, because you have managed to withdraw some markings from secret or confidential documents, you can see clearly from the document what you can read when you refer to continuity with the previous government and say - the Ministry informs the government - under the open question number 1: "The Slovenian army would have the status of occupation in Iraq as the Danish forces. In view of this fact and the political importance of participating in the operation, I propose that, after the Danish part of the decision, the National Assembly, preferably by means of a fast-track law, approve the decision by the end of July. In this case, arrangements must be made in advance both with the coalition and with the opposition." So if they were consistent they would also refer to this part of the text, which is in these up to recently secret documents. But no, of course you're only talking about active thinking, as was said today. Because I would like to talk to you today primarily about the reasons, the reasons why the government has changed this decision, with the past or with what has happened so far, with this conclusion that I have just read, I think it would be right to turn to the present. That Janša's decision to send four Slovenian soldiers to Iraq was the result of some political circumstances and interests, which are still hidden from the public, is also reflected in many facts. The first is when you read the coalition contract and the alliances of individual parties involved in this coalition. Here I am thinking mainly of the defence minister's party, who is now trying to justify his credibility by saying what he is doing right now, just some kind of participation in a peacekeeping mission, a mission in Iraq. We all know that it is not yet possible in Iraq, if ever, for a peacekeeping mission, and that it is not in any way comparable and cannot be compared because it is a completely different basis, by sending Slovenian soldiers to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Kosovo, nor to Afghanistan. You can read and find that it is really a training at the Iraqi military academy, which has already been and is likely to be the target of attacks by Iraqi rebels, and is located in a town district where guerrilla attacks are also common. Slovenian military instructors will train the so-called Iraqi security forces, with the Iraqi government, the government army, which is largely made up of Iraqi Shiite, and which is already involved in a part of the civil war, as rebels are mostly sunk. It is therefore a military mission that strengthens one side of the current and even more future civil war in Iraq. In Iraq, it is not a benign guarantee of security, but a bloody conflict between the occupation and government forces with a engulfed and well-managed guerrilla opponent. The latter is also believed by American military analysts to be invincible for a short period of time. Some talk about five, others talk about ten years, if it's ever possible to talk about how it's going to end the way it's supposed to. As a result of financial and political costs, the main occupation force in Iraq cannot afford such a long-standing fight in the current range, because the US administration wants to show its own public that in Iraq, however, has an exit strategy, it will be faster this year when it does not reduce the number of its troops in Iraq, with which it will replace them, as it will be in the future, we can only guess, not by the best scenarios in my opinion. Thus, for example, the commander of the American occupying forces reported to the convention last autumn that only one Iraqi battalion was capable of acting alone. It is only in this military-political context that we seek the meaning of Nate's engagement in Iraq and thus four of our instructors. Instead of sending a mini-military solution to Iraq, the impact of which on the outcome of the Iraq war will be irrelevant, but with it Slovenia is at least symbolically becoming one of the occupying forces, it would do better to engage more actively in the search for a political solution to the Iraqi crisis, even more so since Slovenia has a very active foreign minister and has recently also a hyperactive president of the country. Although elections were held in Iraq, which was last year’s three elections, there is still much work to be done there. The new constitution is based on the concept of a loose federation that can increase the obvious disintegration processes already in the countries. The minority Sunni, who participated in large numbers in the December elections alone, complain that the elections were directed to the benefit of the majority Shiite. In general, these elections have only strengthened the power of extreme religious parties, while more moderate secular parties have been poorly cut off and analysts fear that this could be an introduction to a general civil war. Is it at least our credibility in NATO based on a mutual assistance commitment to attack any of them? No, no, no. "The Coalition of Free" led by the United States of America takes place in an Iraqi case as an attacker, an aggressor in the true sense of the word. The attack was carried out without support in the UN and even in the face of opposition from many NATO members and the basic legitimacy was unverified and partially falsified data on the existence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. This is now widely known and is not denied by the U.S. administration. Only after it was no longer hidden that no traces of illicit weapons of mass destruction had been found in Iraq did the official reason for the attack on Iraq suddenly become the spread of democracy in the Middle East or the need to overthrow Saddam Hussein as a notorious dictator and war criminal. There's no doubt about it. While these promoters of democracy with fire and sword do not particularly mind that there are massive violations of human rights and political freedoms in many countries, their allies, they do not need to be highlighted. According to a public opinion poll conducted in Iraq last fall by two prominent American press houses, two thirds of the population, that is, those who ask for help according to the statements in this Chamber, oppose the presence of occupation units. This is also not surprising, since the civilian casualties are already in 10,000 and will soon reach numbers from the most infamous Saddam times. Therefore, we propose again, several times this has already been said, that the National Assembly should propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw its decision to deploy four military instructors to Iraq, because it is a decision by which Slovenia is symbolically becoming a participant in the occupation forces or occupation of a foreign country, which has been carried out without the authority of the United Nations, because it is a decision that increases the potential security risks of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we cannot hear about this in any way any relevant assessment of the civil security intelligence agency which should report, but not. We are, of course, reporting the part that deals with the military, which is contrary to many, to many regulations. But I'll talk about it some other time. And it is a decision, not least, which is opposed by a large part of the Slovenian public, and this commitment is the result, this decision is not based on the international obligations of Slovenia and because it has been adopted without consultation, but in whatever way this government is taking this opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, the well-respected assembly. On 12 January this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision to deploy four members of the Slovenian army to the NATO mission to train Iraqi security forces in Iraq for a period of six months. In view of the fact that the government in the same decision commissioned the Ministry of Defence to provide funds for the implementation of this action in the 2006 and 2007 budgets, it is clear that it is a longer period of presence of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the territory of Iraq, where military conflicts are taking place, including elements of the civil war. The Social Democrats responded to the government's decision immediately the following day. After consulting the Council of Experts on Foreign and Security Policy, Social Democrats President Borut Pahor stated that the Government's decision to send the Slovenian Army to Iraq was inappropriate, unnecessary and risky. We are dissatisfied and concerned about the government's will to act, because in such an important decision, which represents a significant departure from our country's policy to the Iraqi war, it did not consult the opposition, nor did it get to know the national assembly, but only to consult and at least try to reach a political consensus in the central chamber of the Slovenian policy on this decision. We believe that national consensus should be reached on decisions affecting national security. This way, the Slovenian Army will go to Iraq with the burden of political unanimity and without the support of the Slovenian public opinion. The circumstances surrounding the decision to go to the Slovenian soldiers in Iraq are such that we cannot get rid of the impression that the decision has been taken recklessly and quickly. The fact that the Prime Minister first explained the reasons for sending the Slovenian Army to the NATO mission to Iraq at a press conference only a week after the decision was taken is eloquent enough. At the most critical moments, he sent the Secretary of Defense and Foreign Affairs into the fire. Minister of Defence Karl Erjavec, as a candidate for the Minister, was very reserved to send Slovenian soldiers to Iraq and told members of the Defence Committee that Slovenia would have to make a political decision whether or not to participate in the operation. At the "Modern Army" Fair in Gornja Radgona in September last year, he strongly argued that, as long as he was the Defence Minister, our country would not send its troops to Iraq. In fact, the government has taken this decision against its own statements, which the ministers announced a few months ago. We would expect such a decision to be communicated to the Slovenian public first by the President of the National Security Council, according to Prime Minister Janez Janša of the Republic of Slovenia. We Social Democrats have so far taken action by the government, including its decision of 17 February 2005, in addition to the five instructors for training Iraqi security forces in a third country, this is also helping in Jordan, Iraq with more weapons and equipment and with a financial contribution of 100,000 euros. However, we do not agree with this decision, because, in our view, it is repeated, inappropriate, unnecessary and risky and without national agreement. Nor is the Government and cannot refer to the fifth article of the Washington Treaty, under which a member of NATO who has been attacked must defend all other members. It is also true that NATO does not have the full consent of the countries to the participation of the soldiers of the Member States in Iraq. This is also one of the elements why our government should seek political support in all parliamentary parties. The NATO mission to train the Iraqi security forces in Iraq is not a humanitarian or peace operation, but a completely military one. That's why this argument is that it's a peace operation attracted to hair. We find it very controversial to withdraw the secret code "confidential" from the three July 2003 documents by which the current government has tried to inform the public that it is only implementing the decisions to send the Slovenian Armed Forces to Iraq, which should have already been prepared by the Government of Rob. Indeed, representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff spoke with representatives of the Danish Ministry of Defence, but the decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Iraq was not taken by the previous government. The information provided by the then Minister of Defence, Dr Anton Grizold, of 8.7.2003 explicitly states that the decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Iraq should be confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Although the previous government had not taken such a decision, it was aware that such a step should be followed by agreement to the National Assembly. Wavering with these chronical documents in the public was an ordinary deception of the Slovenian public. In the world of diplomacy, our administration has lost much of its credibility. But who will trust us abroad if, for the sake of the internal political benefits, we reveal documents that are considered secret for at least 30 years, unless both countries agree to their publication. In this case, our country of Denmark has not asked for consent. The Danish government reportedly has this internal political problem, as the opposition has made it clear that Slovenia has been forced into a military Iraqi mission. I have nowhere to see the news that the National Security Council will in-depth discuss what this decision means for the security of our country, our citizens and citizens. Is that why we're going to become the target of terrorist actions? What are the dangers to our soldiers in Iraq? How are their families cared for? Is our system ready to provide soldiers and their closest in case of injuries or even death? A poor example of this would be the injury of a Slovenian soldier in Afghanistan who was left to himself on his return home or had to join his personal doctor nicely. We do not know how many of our citizens live in Iraq, but on national television we can hear an entrepreneur from Idria, and I know him very well, who has a family and a successful company in Baghdad and a large number of domestic employees and will have to move to safety. How will our country take care of this aspect of Iraq's adventure? Above all, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the government to present arguments at today's meeting for its decision why it was adopted so quickly and without national agreement. What role did the United States, NATO and some other Western European countries play in this decision? We expect the government's clear position on the seven proposed decisions, and in particular to reconsider its decision. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia could join the stabilisation of the situation in Iraq in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group, we respect the proper request of our colleagues from the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats to convene today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to address the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO Security Forces Training Mission in Iraq. We do not regret the time for proper discussions on foreign policy issues, on topics where we can narrow political power and do something good for Slovenia and for the Slovenians, wherever they live. It is unfortunate, however, that we think it is time to discuss the decision of the Government, which is perfectly legal, on which the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy has also agreed at the meeting just concluded. In New Slovenia, we firmly believe that today's debate will not bring new insights, will not bring new added value to understanding by law a perfectly correct government decision and an understanding of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in international organisations such as the United Nations, NATO, etc. On the contrary, we fear that today it will again be manipulated by the Slovenian public, the Slovenian public, who decided in the most democratic way on 23 March 2003 that the Republic of Slovenia will become an equal member of NATO. We understand the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO as the enjoyment of the status of a secure country, while at the same time understanding the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia after a constructive role in ensuring democratisation and peace in the world, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. The Slovenian Government has taken its decision to involve our four soldiers in training the security forces in Iraq on the basis of the call of the United Nations to the Member States to contribute to the resolution of the dangerous situation in Iraq and also on the basis of a similar request for assistance from President Iraq addressed to the Secretary-General of NATO, Mr Scheffer. Among other things, it is the application of the decision or the consent of the previous government, with the date of 18 November 2004. We wish to inform the Slovenian public that NATO's mission in Iraq cannot be compared with the United States military intervention and its coalition in this country. We know what kind of genetics the Iraqi war has. New Slovenia would never and will never vote for the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to the occupation forces in Iraq or elsewhere. Perhaps someone is disturbed by Iraq and the fact that the United States of America has launched an attack with a coalition of willing people without the mandate of the United Nations. This can't end. May we leave men to the mercy and ruthlessness of the terrorists and the interest groups of their country? Can we allow the regime of Saddam Hussein to be reinstated in Iraq? Slovenian military instructors do not go to Iraq with this coalition of willing, but from soldiers of democratic Slovenia, members of NATO. They are going on a peace mission, which all allies have decided by consensus, because in democratic countries, the responsibility for the world has overcome the aspects of restraint and condemnation of a coalition willing to attack Iraq. They are ready to help Iraqi people, to establish structures that will enable a secure life. Is that wrong? Isn't that what it takes? Isn't this a humane and democratic state worth it? The military operations in Iraq ended on 30.6.2004. NATO's mission includes educational support in terms of securing the democratic processes that have just begun. This is not a mission of imposing peace, because it does not involve combat operations, it is a peace mission rather than anything else. The democratisation of Iraq is a process that is indeed under way and most Iraqis also want it. The protection and support of democratic processes is also the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia. Those who reject such tasks in our country can conclude that they approve of the re-establishment of Saddam's regime in Iraq or elsewhere in the world. Sending our soldiers to peacekeeping missions means that our government is determined to combat international terrorism of all forms and a strong member of the anti-terrorist coalition. Any other decision would mark us as swingers and two-faced opportunists in the fight against terrorism. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we sincerely want all 247 Slovenian soldiers, for whom no government has ever agreed to the National Assembly and are currently in the compositions of peace missions around the world, to return to their homeland in health and satisfaction, to do something good for democracy and peace in the world. Of course, we also want the Quartet, which has now decided on a peacekeeping mission in Iraq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Your Honor! At the moment on the balcony, we have a delegation from the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the National Council of the Slovak Republic, which I welcome. We continue with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Dear guests! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the sensitivity of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the participation of four soldiers or officers and Slovenian military officers in the mission in Iraq. We are also firmly convinced that transparency in all aspects of this cooperation is extremely important, both for us in the National Assembly and for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's meeting, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, is an opportunity for the government to clearly present its views and reasons for the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq, although we fear in the Slovenian People's Party that, despite possible explanations and views and explanations by the Prime Minister, as well as government representatives, the conclusions at the end of this meeting will be divided as they were divided at the request of the Government, into views expressed by the coalition and views of the opposition. Although the representatives of the government and the Prime Minister have responded to 5 of the seven proposals, the conclusions presented by the motions for today's meeting, I think that the sixth decision would be necessary to hold a debate and not to discuss who has already done what and what he has not done. Then, on the seventh decision, according to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, it is not possible to discuss or not to discuss and why - according to the Slovenian People's Party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia acted in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, with the Government Act, as well as with the obligations that Slovenia has assumed when it decided to join NATO and the European Union. And I think that you are also the proponents, when you reasoned, already in the first paragraph, that all these provisions have been dealt with correctly by the Government or have been treated in accordance with these obligations. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to stress in particular that this is not about the participation of our soldiers in the NATO mission, which is aimed at assisting the Iraqi government in training the Iraqi security forces and establishing other institutions necessary to stabilise the country of Iraq. It is also important for the Slovenian People's Party to note that those professional members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who volunteered to participate in this mission have been carried out and selected. As I am personally aware, some members of the Slovenian Army have made great efforts to go on a mission and, if you believe it or not, the chosen soldiers will be very reluctant if their departure to Iraq is hampered or cancelled. It is therefore professional, professional soldiers who have already taken certain responsibilities and risks by making a decision for this service. Therefore, all the populism statements are that the Slovenian Armed Forces are putting themselves at risk simply and only by populism statements. Being a professional soldier also means taking risks and responsibilities to your work. Whether the Slovenian Government decides to increase the risk to us citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or not, we can ask ourselves, and according to the Slovenian People's Party, one or two publications of caricatures in Slovenian media are significantly greater risks for citizens of this country than the deployment of four soldiers to the mission in Iraq. Of course, the fact that the chosen soldiers want to go to Iraq is not the right one, but, above all, not the right reason for the actual deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. Let me repeat briefly the chronology of the events which, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, led to a government decision. I think that the Prime Minister himself, as well as the ministers, and I think that some of the debaters have already identified themselves. First, we decided to enter Euro-Atlantic links and also NATO at the 66th and few percent referendum. Slovenia was accepted as a full member of NATO in April 2004. The last elections to the National Assembly and consequently the new current government, which has adopted a political decision under the law to send Slovenian soldiers to Iraq, have continued the trend that the former government has adopted since 2003, when we sent the first soldiers to Iraq. The entry into NATO has positive and negative consequences, I think my predecessors have already mentioned that it is not and we cannot only expect positive things or positive solutions or positive effects in some decision to join someone, but you are probably also taking on certain obligations. Slovenia currently has its troops in a significantly larger number in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Kosovo. As some of my predecessors have also said, I don't know if, but I don't think it's my fault that the former government, when it decided to deploy these soldiers, did not convene a Security Council, probably did not address matters in the National Assembly, but was in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with its powers under the Government Act, made such a decision and so decided. The task of the soldiers in Iraq is not aggression, but, as the predecessors have said, assistance to the Iraqi government in the framework of NATO and in line with the United Nations resolution. We will recall that the previous government, too, has opposed the involvement of the Slovenian army in such or other forms of training of Iraqi soldiers until only the training or involvement of other soldiers has gained a place in the resolution of the United Nations. Finally, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore oppose the proposals made by the applicants, especially Article 7 and support the proposals of the conclusions of the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft conclusions. Mr Minister of Defence, Mr Erjavec, spoke first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. I am sorry that Mr Anderlich is not here, and I owe him something, and I hope because he is absent now that there will be no need to repeat the same explanation later. Mr Anderlich discussed the need to find political solutions. We probably all agree that it is the United Nations that is the place where political solutions are sought and found, and in this context I do not understand its debate on the civil war in Iraq, which is even to be supported in this way by the resolutions of the United Nations. I do not believe that the United Nations has adopted four resolutions in Iraq to support the civil war. As you know, the last resolution of 546 speaks of all members of the United Nations contributing to the stabilisation of Iraq. Probably not in a civil war, so I really can't support it, and I don't understand it either. But I agree with what he said about the will coalition being defined as an occupying force, like the army that carried out the attack on Iraq. However, in 2003, the Slovenian government seriously considered participating in this occupation war. Indeed, in 2003 these talks were with the President of Denmark to have the Slovenian Army participate in this contingent. I am also sorry that Mr Sam Bevik, who states that Mr Grizold, in his document for the government, spoke about the fact that if Slovenia were to participate in the south of Iraq with the Danes, such a decision should be taken in the State Assembly. Normally, because it was a coalition of forces. This was not some kind of operation within an international organisation, such as this within the NATO mission, which is designed to train Iraqi security forces that can bring about some stability over a long period of time. I'm really sorry that Mr Bevek isn't here, but I can tell you that this fabrication of my statements in Gornja Radgona, on "hearing" when I was a candidate for Minister of Defence, is going this way because there are no arguments. Because there is no argument why Slovenia should not participate in Iraq. It waves with some fears that Slovenia is even more at risk. Mr Anderlič participated in a committee to oversee the intelligence and security forces and was able to hear an assessment of the Owl. There was a clear indication of the level of threat. About the withdrawal of the confidentiality mark. Once again, this withdrawal has not been made in order for this government to argue the deployment of four instructors to Iraq. This withdrawal took place because three days after the government's decision to send, after the government's decision to withdraw this confidentiality, it still spoke, in particular the former, former Prime Minister has consistently been in all broadcasts. [[You can check it out.]] declares that he has never, and has never, discussed any instructions or involvement of Slovenian soldiers concerning Iraq. That is why this code of confidentiality has been withdrawn - in order for the Slovenian public to know what the previous government was talking about. It's not to be reasoned with in this way by our decision of the government. Our decision of the government was taken because it has proved that we cannot train Iraqi security forces in a third country, we cannot implement it, and we have therefore sought further solutions - how to fulfil our duty around the "Nato Training Mission", that is, those duties that were adopted at the Istanbul Summit. This mission, as you know, consists of two phases: one phase is assistance in cash, in arms, and the other phase is training of Iraqi security forces. And as part of this phase, Slovenia has contributed nothing. I already said in the introduction that from the new members only Slovenia does not participate in this "Nato Training" mission and Latvia, which participates in the coalition of forces. Therefore, this withdrawal of the confidentiality mark did not take place in order to argue with me this decision. This decision is in accordance with the law, supported by the resolutions of the United Nations, the conclusions of the Istanbul Summit and in accordance with NATO policy. I must say that on Friday I was at the informal meeting of the Ministers of Defence of NATO and it was precisely said that NATO would have to contribute more, become an relevant force for the stabilisation of Iraq, because the coalition of willing will obviously not be able to do this alone. And only NATO can provide stabilisation. We have seen this in the case of the Western Balkans, we can see it now in Afghanistan, and I must say that it is likely that the same will happen in Iraq. So I have to say that these arguments that make this government decision unnecessary, unexpected and I don't know what are unfounded. I would really like to ask you for an argument as to why you think this decision is bad. I claim that this decision is good, that it is a decision that gives Slovenian credibility, we are credible members of NATO and therefore I do not understand why you keep repeating that this decision is bad. Unless you think there was a mistake when we got into the relationship with NATO. In this case, I propose that instead of collecting signatures against sending our instructors to Iraq, signatures be collected for a new referendum, if that is the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Anderlich responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u30	It is quite unusual to refer to closed meetings of the Minister because he knows that I will respect, unlike him, the closed session and the message from this closed session and I cannot talk about it here. He vehemently speaks, even more, even some of the withdrawal marks that place us as a country in a very strange light compared to other actors. And because he can't, he can't apologize in any way, or he can get out of saying that he never, until he's the minister, to go to the Slovenian soldier in Iraq, is hiding with some flat-rate charges. He said this several times that as long as he's a minister, he will be, but apparently the minister will still be, but he won't keep his word. And when it comes to the resolution, the resolution speaks of asking Member States to participate in one or the other form. And Slovenia participated first, did not cooperate until the end of the decision, which was adopted to train Iraqi forces in third countries, but fully carried out that part of the activity that the minister has already denied today, namely, 5.2 million euros and 172 thousand euros in transport aid, etc. And the minister, before you accuse him, first look at what it's like to be religious, and then we'll probably get along better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u31	The debate was again addressed by the Minister. Do you want it now or later?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u32	As far as you're concerned, I'm hiding behind my statements. That's not true. Let's read a magnetogram when I was a candidate for Minister of Defence, you'll see clearly what I said there, that this is a political decision that the government has to make, and that's in accordance with the law. And I've also pointed out, as far as peace support operations are concerned. And the same was true in Gornja Radgona. Of course, when the arguments run out, we're going after the procedure, on the statements, we want to make them, but I'm going to say it again. As Minister of Defence, I said that Slovenian soldiers would never perform on missions as an occupation force. But the difference between what you wanted and what you wanted in your term of office. But you wanted Slovenian soldiers in southern Iraq to perform in military operations. This is really outrageous, and it bothers you that I withdrew the code of confidentiality because otherwise the Slovenian public would never know.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u33	Thank you. We have a procedural proposal. Procedural question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u34	President, thank you very much. I am not in a dilemma, but to direct the debate according to the agenda item, I suggest that the government representatives tell us whether there are two types of army in Iraq. All the time and on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and on the Defence Committee, and I think the representatives here today have also spoken, we have so-called willpower, and I think that Minister Dimitrij Rupel mentioned that 16 countries have their own army, saying those who have joined and who have committed aggression. While some have also withdrawn in the meantime, I think that Spain and I do not know who else, and that we have now, I think it has been said that 14 States of the military representatives, of which 9 are new members of NATO, are forming some other forces. And if we call it that, we'll get an answer, just like Mr. Minister was, only when he presented himself as a candidate for Minister, but I wasn't in Upper Radgon, but I know the records when there was a speech. The Slovenian soldier will not create forces called willpower and occupying Iraq.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. I would like us not to go with procedural suggestions, replicas and the like into duels, because then everyone else on the list of discussers will have to wait. Mr. Anderlich, I'll give you time for a replica, but please, let's stay away from the duels and follow the list of discussers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u36	All I'm saying is, finally, I don't think that's going to be anything but magnetograms. I'm just reading magnetograms for Mr. Erjavac and Mr. Bajc. On "hearing" 30.11: "I see no reason why our army would be there. Of course, it would be good to perform there for humanitarian purposes." And that's all. No political decisions, that's all later. Take your gig in Radgona and you'll see. That's where you put that up. That's your problem, and I don't want to explain it anymore unless you're behind your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! I am pleased that we can also talk about this issue today also entirely ordinary Members and Members of Parliament, because I do not think it is just four soldiers, it is not just their professional ethics, it is their professional duty, but it is a symbolic level for much more. It is a matter of our external political orientation. It's a question of our geostrategic position on the world map. And in this sense, it seems to me that we also have the right of Members and Members to express some of our opinions. Finally, we have referendums on railways, opening shops on Sundays, and we should not have talked about this subject for a few days in this room. I don't think there's any equation between Nate and Iraq that he wants to introduce himself here today. No one has given NATO's decision at the same time the most responsible politicians free time to make such important decisions just under this pretext. This is also what we spoke to the Slovenian public during the referendum for NATO. No one expected this from us, and this has been written everywhere, and it is true that some politicians, in particular our eternal foreign minister, constantly like to shape the foreign policy in a very small way, if we think of a voluntary trip in connection with the Vilnius Declaration. And since it is close to a cultural holiday, I would also like to read today a song that actually speaks about the subject, including the topic on today's agenda, by Andrej Rozman Rose, which has the title of the Minister's eyes. "The Minister's sad eyes in us awaken compassion, the minister suffers. It's not just easy to be a ferret of the wilder west. He swallowed the ideas of Slovenian spring so that our friends would love us. And they gave him space between the lower vases. The minister's sad eyes stir up compassion in us, the minister suffers. On one side Washington, on the other Berlin, crucifixion on the cross of doctrine and goodness. He's used to living without a spine, but it's hard to realize you're a worm if you admire birds." A few more songs are in this collection "They Be Grandfathers", and look at how this part of the intellectuals sees our policy and our decisions in this regard. And another issue, among these arguments that we are listening to today, is that it is constantly welcomed in Iraq as a peacekeeping mission. It's not a peace mission. This is not about any indirect training of some military and police units. This is not about post-war reconciliation, but about direct military presence on behalf of some, for Slovenia completely irrelevant and meaningless interests. If I say slightly allegorical, then Slovenian instructors in Iraq will teach willing Iraqis to kill other less willing and unrelenting Iraqis so that they can protect American oil companies at the legal site of Iraqi oil. And of course, the whole operation, what bothers me most personally, was based on a lie. And no one's rejected that lie until today. There were never any deadly weapons of mass murder found in Iraq. This was only a cover for completely other interests, particularly those serving the interests of the oil industry already mentioned. And Slovenia does not need and does not need to be involved in this now, because there will be no great benefit from this. Slovenian active participation in the Iraqi war is also based on lies, repeated lies, as Prime Minister Janez Janša repeatedly claimed in the media that Slovenia is the only member of NATO - three times said this on television - the only member of NATO that does not participate in Nat's activity in ensuring stability in Iraq [[I quote that.]] or training of Iraqi military units and other security forces. That's why they're supposed to be completely uncreditable. That's a lie and another lie! In action NTM1 [[Then Training Mission]] does not participate as many as 10 members of NATO - obviously completely non-creditable. No France, Canada, Spain, Norway, Germany, Belgium and others are found on this list. The government has not received public support for sending troops to Iraq despite enormous pianist efforts. There is neither broad support nor public opinion, nor should anyone, nor the opposition, nor the non-governmental organisation, nor the non-parliamentary parties, nor the intellectuals in the New Magazine circle, as we have seen in Mr Tinet Hribar's interview. There is no need for Slovenia to enter this dirty war. Let us also look at the death counter in Iraq: last week, 228 dead, together to date 35,812 dead. Why the Slovenes?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u40	Thank you, President. First of all, if you'll excuse me, it's a bit slow for the minister. I would call on him not to react to every performance because there are many debaters and it is right that he finally tries to summarize and also perform. Otherwise, we'll go to dialogue, prolong it all, and come up with no useful direction. When he points to this - and I say equally that there is no equation between NATO and Iraq - he urges that we collect signatures for a new referendum around NATO, the temptation may be great, I have no problem with it, but it is not serious. We are trying to prove that NATO membership has nothing to do with what the government is doing today. Finally, all assurances were given when we entered NATO that we would therefore not be forced to step into such hotspots as Iraq. Otherwise, the thesis of a continuity with previous policies is repeated, as if this conclusion were an upgrade or an implementation of previous conclusions. In this respect, the Prime Minister made his first reaction clear, and today he has echoed this position. "If this year's decision were to be made," he said, "the government would not have taken it, "it would have been extremely improbable, given the promises that have been made." It has been repeatedly explained that this claim is misleading, that it is false. It is not written, repeat again, it is not written and there is no signed commitment of the former government to send military or any other official personnel to Iraq. And no less credible member of NATO Slovenia can be like everyone else, even more powerful than Germany, France, Spain, the Netherlands, who do not send their uniformed people to Iraq. Spain, as we know, paid dearly for Aznar's adventure and immediately withdrew with Zapater. All the papers and facts you claim otherwise are just proof that the pressure to legitimize aggression and join the occupying forces was that the government, in which we, the Social Democrats, responded to them calmly, diplomatically with talks and seeking solutions that were acceptable to all parties. That she also studied within the competent ministries the option of sending her people to Iraq. She had already fixed the unfortunate and personally disgraced Vilnu statement to me, on the foreign policy committee, I was the only one who had ever objected to the American attack, if it was to nod the American lies around the alleged existence of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction as an excuse for aggression almost to condition the "sonne quanton" for the green light of Washington to our entry into NATO. But beyond that, the former government has not gone. To cooperate in the stabilisation of the formal post-war Iraq, as we have already said, has agreed, but only on the mentioned and fairly undetectable scale, i.e. outside Iraqi soil. That was all, and it's hard to say otherwise. Let me mention some more statements that say that the decision that we are considering today has nothing to do with the previous government and goes beyond even the word of the current government at its inauguration. And I'm not going to borrow a magnetogram from the Secretary of Defense, but this time I'm quoting myself, I'm reading from the tapegram. "It is among the greatest credits of the previous government that Slovenia has failed to engage in Iraq's chaos in a more direct way, or has only agreed in NATO's context to the participation of its instructors in the training of Iraqi security forces in a third country." And he said, "Looking at the sympathy of the winning political options to American politics, is it expected that our boys will travel to the Iraqi battlefield?" Dr. Rupla’s response to me was reassuring and familiar with his personal view of this also pleasantly surprising, and I quote the answer. "What concerns our relationship with Iraq and our engagement with regard to the Iraqi crisis, I see no reason for it to be different than it has been before." End of quote. So if I borrow this answer and especially the sentence, I see no reason for it to be different than it has been before. I can tell you that so far we have not entered the Iraqi soil, and from now on it will be different. So far, the government has sought and found consensus in the political space and a considerable understanding of the public, henceforth this consensus and this understanding the government no longer has. So far, our role has been discreet or little noticeable, and from now on, as the Minister of Defence has even praised us, we will be very recognizable. And with regard to the latter, let me reiterate and warn you that no one has ever convinced me that there is no correlation between the recognition of the State and the degree of its threat, when it only interferes with a conflict in which terrorism is involved, even as a pensioner. Many are still in Iraq and around who do not separate or refuse to separate peacekeeping separate missions when they are carrying out similar uniforms, and who make it clear that anyone who cooperates in any form with the invader and the enemy is only seen as a new invader and enemy. From this point of view, even our cooperation, as far as I know, in training Iraqi police officers in Jordan is not so innocent because they are under US command, but it is less noticeable. The government's assessment that the level of threat by the decision to send soldiers to Iraq has not increased as much as the camel time for those who wrote it to calm down. I believe that it is professionally and thoroughly prepared, but at the same time, the best intelligence officers do not have access to all the information or that those who do not like us are capable and skilled surprises, otherwise New York, Madrid and London would not happen. I hope that I am wrong that we really have nothing to fear that the angry Iraqis will not think ill of Slovenia or that they will understand that we only want to do them good. I would like to see that, in the face of the security situation in Iraq, in the face of the new threats of Been Laden, with the exacerbation of the Palestinian and Iranian nuclear issues, when the Islamic Council is on its way to the scrupulous cartoons of Mohamed, the government has withdrawn or at least frozen the decision and left the boys at home. With regard to credibility, whether we have not changed our minds before, I would like to quote a good example when it came to a multilateral initiative within the UN, led by Sweden, for a world without nuclear weapons, when we stepped down from the initiative, and therefore we had no difficulty in joining the EU or NATO, nor with any other credibility. Believe me, colleagues and colleagues, that the public would be deeply relieved to accept the call for the annulment of the government's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Rupel spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. Although my friend Aurelio Juri has already beat me up, Mrs Orzmova said that something was wrong with the Vilnius statement, but colleague Juri said between the lines that this Vilnius statement was of course accepted by this Parliament or foreign policy committee with one exception, that is the person or voice of Mr Aurelia Juri. In short, this statement, whether it be such or otherwise, has received full support in this House, in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and I do not think it makes sense for you to return to your own positive experiences and to what has been done in this House. As for the Hrybar interview, which has already been rounded up several times as a subject of controversy in this congregation. Tina Hribar, I also hope to say, one of my friends, probably has a lot of friends in this congregation, said a lot of other things besides what was said here. I wouldn't quote what he said there because maybe he's insulting someone. Not for me. However, let me say that it reflects or, I would say with particular emphasis and wit, talks about the anti-americanism of our policy, or that policy that was ruling in the previous term, and here we probably have to agree with our friend Hribar and, of course, he also sees the consequences of this anti-americanism, and which we have, I hope, seemed to me, at least so, a more mature part of Slovenian politics, somewhat disposed of. Now another thing Mr. Member mentioned, my friend Aurelio Yuri, says yes, he quoted me. In particular, a December 2004 statement, when I said that I see no reason why the policy that was in force at the time would change. I must say that I did not see that reason at the time, because there was no decision made then, I think that in April 2005, the training or training of the Iraqi security forces is not possible in a third country, but that it is possible only on the spot or if we built a special military base where we would do it. In short, there was no reason, in December 2004, Mr Juri, there was no reason. While some new reason arose with April 2005, a new situation arose. What else has changed? What changed was that they had elections in Iraq. I hope, as I know from you, that you do not oppose democratic elections institutions, that people are being pushed into an electoral battle, and that, finally, government structures reflect some form of a relationship between different policies. Iraq, however, achieved a major change from the Iraq we knew, which we were very afraid of, for example, two years and three years ago. So, not taking into account the changes that have taken place in these recent times, even after all with the elections at the end of last year, does not take this into account, I think it is somewhat irresponsible, if I may say so. And that's what I'd like to say. In fact, I'd like to attract Mr. Bajc. In fact, there are several addresses where travelers, soldiers, missionaries, businessmen, etc., in Iraq are going. One of these addresses is the address of NATO in Iraq. That's our address. This is our exposition in Iraq. Yours, it's our Slovenian and other 25 countries. Like the UN's exposition and the European Union's exposition, etc., these are our addresses. This is like sending one of our ambassadors or diplomats to a country that we don't like, but we have our own exhibition there, we have our embassy there, we have our own embassy and so on and we send them there after the official duties of the representative of this country. And just as NATO or the NATO countries are sending their envoys, so they are sending Slovenia at the moment, so I understand this, my envoys, who will have to carry out a very responsible, dangerous, no one denies it, dangerously but responsibly, I think from a human and political point of view, a very positive mission. It is said that no one will repeat mistakes, not NTM1, but NTMI, meaning NATO Training Mission Iraq, not number 1, as I have heard in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You want a replica, Mr. Yuri?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u44	Firstly, I would remind the Minister that when we open embassies, we will first discuss on the Committee on Foreign Policy before the government takes any decision. The same would be true of such a mission. Second. Who and how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at the NATO Summit when it decided that training would no longer be conducted in a third country. I argue that if NATO then adopted such a decision by consensus, the Slovenian Government agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I will first speak a few words as Head of the Slovenian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of NATO, which I am leading. Maybe it's even a surprise for someone. Because when we hosted the entire Parliamentary Assembly in Slovenia last year and I was an official host, some central Slovenian media physically erased me. But I was in favour of the words I said there, and then there was a lot of personal discredit. For I have spoken about what is still important today. It's a question of values and the question of NATO's relationship. And those who claim that NATO has nothing to do with values, after all with the events that we witnessed in Slovenia after II. World War II, then he doesn't know what this connection is and what it's based on. Indeed, NATO is not only a military union, as we have heard ten times in this debate today, but it is a combination of countries in defence of common values, including freedom, justice and common prosperity. But these countries are united on the basis of mutual responsibility, that is to say in some way the relationship then works according to the words of one of the fathers of the American Constitution or the statehood of Benjamin Franklin, who once said: "Those who sacrifice their freedom, their own or someone else for their own safety will be left without both of them because they do not deserve another." Indeed, solidarity, mutual responsibility in international relations is now crucial to achieving a greater level of security. It's not just military threats, it's not just terrorism. At the final meeting of NATO in Copenhagen, among other things, you will not believe the question of the possibility of an outbreak of avian influenza and what that means for all of us. Now, on the very subject of today's session. Look, since time does not allow me to do anything else, I will just answer some claims that have been completely misleading today by the LDS or SD, either in the morning at the board meeting, or here at the present part of the debate. Indeed, it is repeatedly repeated, in particular by the LDS, that only the fact that the government of Mr Rob has not addressed the decision concerning Iraq is crucial, and therefore that no reference can be made to the previous government in any way to the current situation. Of course, it's pure nonsense, because the first thing you need to know is knowing the real thing, my friend. Under Slovenian positive law, the Prime Minister specialises the government and represents it both at home and abroad and is limited in this representation only by the Constitution and the positive legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. The documents that you have quoted so vehemently today also contain a sentence that is relevant to this: that the Prime Minister, the then LDS, Mr Anton Rop, has been negotiating with the Danish Prime Minister on the deployment of our troops to the occupying forces in Iraq. So much for that, and I suggest we stop moving around here. For when it comes to the values of Nate, they understand such words as an expression of will. It's not a formal commitment, mate. Here you'll say, that's essential. No, but it is an expression of will that they see as something that the state has already committed itself to with its participation in NATO. And, of course, they expect full responsibility and full consistency - and thus measure the credibility of each country. Now it has offered us an opportunity, which I personally very much welcome and I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so decided to send only four instructors to Iraq instead of realizing the possibility that they will not participate, colleagues, in some fighting units, but to teach the future armed forces of Iraq in defence, not only military, but, if you will, also in defence of values. And, of course, he doesn't hold the wings I just heard. A colleague also got very well into the contradiction of her own statements when she said, "There is no relationship with NATO in Iraq," and she said herself that, of course, NATO is now in Iraq and that our participation in this mission will be welcome. Why is that really how he communicates? The committee was even given an official proposal to publish the names of those soldiers going to Iraq to publish the list of names. And you know that's not what any country does! That's how it was said, fellows, we can go see what was said at the board meeting. So, [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Can I finish? So that says a lot about how far political points are going in this process on the basis of various wingeds and demagogies on the part of our opposition, I'm afraid. What is a problem when it comes to the question of the danger that the next password is thrown into the political arena on your part, I would like to point out that it is completely incomparable, in my firm belief, to assess the danger that threatens those four who go to Iraq when they go to a fortress protected by several circles, if you want, even armed forces, with what our boys experience, for example, in Afghanistan. When they're on patrols - you know that once before something happened that they wish they hadn't - they're also driving in minefields, they're moving between people. Even those who have now been sent to the airport as firefighters need to know that they have already been targeted by attacks. That is to say, those are certainly in greater objective danger than you are. Then why, then, when it was going to Afghanistan, did it not lay black bags and scare in every way possible? I think the answer is very simple: because when it comes to Iraq, for the first time, it rides on aggressive anti-Americanism, which obviously still brings political points to someone in Slovenian situations or at least they think of bringing them to them, but above all there is some of those old, unsustainable love for the unscrupulous, including Saddam Hussein. You know, as far as this is concerned, it has been said before that the attack on Iraq was premature, unfounded, but I don't know what else has been said. I saw footage from those villages that Saddam Hussein had bombarded with war poisons, with blisters, and I saw videos of children who were full of scars who were dying in crazy pain from this poison and if anything went wrong with Iraq, colleagues, the attack on Iraq also came too late, for these people came too late. So much for the story of Iraq, and let us have the same standards for all. Now what I think is a real danger, some of you have already mentioned today, and it is significantly bigger and unnecessary for colleagues, because this is not an international obligation of our country, but the publication of these controversial cartoons in some Slovenian media. I wonder why it was necessary to defend freedom of speech. Please, everyone who was interested could have seen this on the Internet or on any mass media days ago. This first was not about any contribution to freedom of speech. More. I would ask, in principle, whether it is to offend someone who thinks otherwise is really a form of freedom of speech. I'm saying no. I say that freedom of speech is just in respect of someone who thinks otherwise or otherwise believes, rather than in this case. So that's why it went. This increased the risk, as this could be the subject of debate today. Here, I think it's much more justified than what is causing today's session to be convened, it's only because of one pathetic pick-up of a few foreign media outlets. Unfortunately I must say, this was not just one medium, there were more, even on one of the TVs, and Mr Jurij Gostinčič spoke with it. Now why did this happen? Whether it wanted to provoke violence, God forbid sacrifice, perhaps even among the boys we send to Iraq, whether it was because of some extreme leftist cynicism, and we will make Slovenia more recognizable in the Arab world in this way. Is that why this was done? I hope not. I hope so. At the same time, I point to the fact that it is also the only thing after us to explain the situation that we have been in because of this story that images of the cross have also been published in Rome, and that the Bezian mothers of God and Mary with the rat in their arms, and that this is clearly not a disgrace to Muslims, but a simple incitement to religious intolerance against believers. That is to say, I say, even an unconstitutional act, because the Constitution of Slovenia prohibits it, done for, I don't know, internal political reasons or for God's knowledge of whose inclination. It is certainly a continuation of that constant cultural struggle, when in the most various ways the believers are ashamed of any religious confession and, in this case, they are also offended by their feelings, on the one hand of Muslims, and at the same time, if you will, of Christians. At least in these insults, it's those who do it consistently. However, I hope that in Slovenia we will sometimes witness so much tolerance and tolerance that we will abstain from all such acts. Now for the end, I don't know what my colleagues would actually say about everything that's been said here, it was scaring people, it was distorting facts. Today, I think it is very sad that it has also been said that when we talk about shared responsibility for this issue, it should not be a matter of values - and how it is a matter of values! When I analyze everything that our opposition has said today, either at a meeting this morning or today, or before that, it has also been done in public newspapers and some very loud leftists who have just done what I said before, this publication too. I can only say, look at my colleagues, the fact that today is a full moon, maybe explains your words and actions, but certainly doesn't excuse them in anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupel has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u48	One brief explanation, if I may. Mr President, I thank you for your word. I think it is important that we be aware of some reality of international relations. I already said something on the Foreign Policy Committee this morning about the Vienna Convention. The Vienna Convention states that the statements made by the President of the State, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister abroad, no matter how informal or formal they may be, actually bind the country they represent. This morning, I was using a piece of paper produced by my former colleague Grizold, Defence Minister of the previous government. In fact, what Grizold says means something in the context of the government, the government's relations of talks, government agreements, etc., but what the Prime Minister said abroad to his Danish counterpart in talks with another country, he committed our country and we didn't know it. This is a very important difference between speaking, statements also by the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, when he speaks abroad or when he speaks, speaks through him, and what he says has consequences. Thus, the debate that the talks of the Prime Minister were more or less friendly, informal, etc., does not make any sense, because he talked to a Danish colleague about Slovenian soldiers operating in some military operation in Iraq before all those Security Council resolutions were adopted before they were invited by Iraq to help train Iraqi security forces before the summit was decided, which was decided before the conclusion of the North Atlantic Council was reached that it was not possible to train security forces in a third country, etc. As a result, of course, it is different from what the Prime Minister said because he said anyone else. I think this should be taken into account in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Rop has the replica. Excuse me, President, the former Prime Minister has been mentioned. Replica, Mr. Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll talk a little bit more later about what's going on today, about what's happened in the government, but with these statements that have been made here, and with what we're listening to today, there's only something to say. The decision to send the Slovenian Army to Iraq is the decision of this government, the current government, is the decision of Janez Janša and Mr Dimitri Rupl. Nothing that has happened in the past, nothing that has been said in the past, can wash away their responsibilities. I respect their decision, I respect their decision if it is based on arguments based on content and on their beliefs. I believe that, for all that you have decided, there are arguments behind that you believe in this and that you will also defend it here before the national assembly and from the entire Slovenian public. However, I ask them not to make excuses to the previous Prime Minister, not to make excuses for the talks, not to make excuses for the talks that they did not even have, Mr Dimitri Ruple, was not at this session. He's got some kind of record that's unauthorized. Now he laughs, and he probably likes that he wasn't there, because if he was in that interview, then he would know what the Prime Minister was saying then, then he would know what the Prime Minister had promised then, and then he would know what the Danish Prime Minister had said to the then Prime Minister and what the Prime Minister had answered. It refers to a short entry, but, as it is said, that record is not the basis for your decision. I respect your decision, although I'm sure it's wrong, it's harmful and it's taking Slovenia in the wrong direction, and I'm sure time will confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Rupel, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. That's all I'm saying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u53	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me. It's not a replica of a replica, but it's a debate in which a government representative can be involved at any time. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I don't think anyone among us in this government wants to get rid of the responsibility for any decision. The Prime Minister has spoken for himself, I speak for myself, I speak for the Government, on behalf of the Foreign Ministry, and I accept responsibility. It is not the issue of this debate that this government avoids responsibilities. The problem is that Mr. Rob avoids responsibility. He avoids responsibility for what he did, for what he said. I am responsible for my own actions and have always been responsible for my own actions. And if Mr Rob had not denied talking to Denmark about the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Iraq, if he had not avoided the recognition of this fact, none of us would have drawn any papers on the day of any such debate. Because he did - because he was telling the truth to express himself better; because he was speaking the truth, that is why this debate is. And it seems to me that it may also be time for all of us to stop talking about this together because of the good taste and because of the public that this is happening, but the fact is, Mr Rob, you yourself have admitted this to me. You spoke to the Danish President about the engagement of the Slovenian Army in Iraq. Not to deny this, because the documents testify to this, and finally the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark told me about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Secretary was invited to the debate, do you have a replica? Here you go. There's only one thing I'd like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. If we continue to do so, there will be no debate among 56 Members who have been registered. That's why I'm asking you to shorten these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I think there is no problem - I take political responsibility over and over again for my own decisions. And for all the documentation you have read here, which you will read and about which we will hear today, it is very clear that it was I who stopped the conversations about sending the Slovenian Army to Iraq; that it was I who prevented the government from making any decision on this. So, once again, about the fact that we have talked about this subject in many ways, with the President of the Portuguese Government, with the Prime Minister of Great Britain, with the Prime Minister of Denmark, we can list five other heads of government - of course we have spoken! From the start of the conflict in Iraq, virtually all talks with all the government presidents have been opened by these government presidents, who themselves have decided, together with their governments, to send their armies to Iraq, they have always discussed the subject. This topic was also open on the Danish side in case of a visit to Denmark. But none of you will erase the historical fact: the government, at the time I led it alone, did send an army to Iraq and would not send it! I said that at the beginning, I said that before the referendum, I said that after the referendum, and that's what happened. You've decided to take this step. You have every right. Today you have found that you have a legal basis for this, that you have a constitutional basis for this. Of course, you still need content and you need an argument before the Slovenian public. This argument, yours, on your part, is weak. That is why I understand, of course, that you are trying to show back and say that we have actually decided to send an army to Iraq. That's not true, that's not true, and the historical facts will never confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, what do you want, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u58	Just a phrase to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u59	Mr. Grimes, I won't let you. You don't have a replica. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u60	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to fellow Members and Members of Parliament, Minister with fellow Members! At first a few general things on this subject. Since the fall of the dictatorial and criminal regime in Iraq, many things have changed. The Iraqi people have drifted away from the terror of Saddam Hussein and more and more mass graves of innocent victims and more and more testimony about torture, mutilation, imprisonment, and other injustices are coming. These things are not foreign to us Slovenians either. The vast majority of the population don't want Saddam Hussein's regime back. The country's democratisation was under way, and the first democratic elections were held with mass participation, through 60% of Iraqis participated. The election was attended by Kurds, Shiites and also by a significant number of suites, despite the intense calls by Islamic extremists for the boycott of elections and abstinence in the further formation of political space in Iraq. The Iraqis must therefore be congratulated for the courage to participate in elections in this way despite terrorist attacks and terrorist deaths. The democratisation of Iraq is therefore a process that is indeed under way, which most Iraqis want and do not oppose. In Iraq, the war against foreign invaders, the United States and Western allies is widely believed to be misleading and extremely harmful. I believe that Slovenia is right to send its military instructors to Iraq to train members of the Iraqi army and police to carry out their own operational tasks in establishing order and peace in Iraq. The international community must help to establish the national institutions of democratic Iraq. Slovenia has also accepted this obligation by entering NATO. On the Defence Committee, we have already, I can say, fully processed over long and long periods, we have all agreed that this decision by the government to send these four instructors to Iraq is legal and legitimate, so that the government has done nothing illegal. The safety of citizens and citizens of Slovenia will not be reduced by the departure of these four instructors to Iraq. However, I firmly believe that Slovenia's security from terrorism has decreased after the publication of these disputed cartoons. In fact, you may be wrong in Slovenia because you are used to being insulted by Slovenian Christians on many occasions, mocking various things from this Brezian Mary in the arms of a rat to a burning cross and so on. True, Slovenian Christians were not violent; we did not react so violently. We need to know, however, that Islamic believers are not like that and that reactions to the publication of these cartoons are certainly an expression of their emotional impact. Therefore, once again, Slovenian security has not diminished or will not be reduced by the departure of these four military instructors to Iraq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u62	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In the autumn of 2003, I said on behalf of the Slovenian National Party that if you want to join the club, you have to respect their club rule. The second sentence I uttered was this, you will never see my sons, and you will never see them as soldiers anywhere in this world, because I am all the time and I will be against Nat. I haven't heard so much about duality and demeanor as I hear it today. I haven't heard it in a long time. And I'm going to start and I'm going to finish soon. I will read to you the sentence, first of all, Mr Kacin on February 24th: "As the first step towards professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it was aware that with military bonds in service of the military service it was not possible to go to any operation abroad and that we therefore need a professional army established the first battalion for international cooperation." In other words, a breakthrough was made in the previous government for Slovenian soldiers to go abroad, clearly and loudly. The second sentence - "in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are aware that we have never sent our soldiers as far away as this time as they are going to Afghanistan. The alliance does not distance, the alliance draws closer, and even the farthest places, and the suffering of the people there will become much closer and much more real to us because of the presence of our soldiers." Nice. Don't think about it, on the other side. I am against the fact that there are 90 soldiers in Bosnia, I am against the fact that 92 are in Kosovo, I am against the fact that two are in Syria and Israel. I'm against the fact that 58 of them are in Afghanistan, where they've already been taken to the mine, and because of the Hummer, they're still alive -- who doesn't know that, by chance. I'm against an accident with a pillatus and a pilot of the Slovenian Army dying. I'm against suicides in the Slovenian Army. Who did this? All of us, all of us, my fellow Members, all of us in this House. All, starting with the Social Democrats, through DeSUS, through New Slovenia, through the Slovenian Democratic Party, through the Liberal Democratic Party and through the Slovenian People's Party, when you said vehemently: Then - yes, breakthrough - yes. Except for Mr. Aurelio Yuri, who was an exception. He abstained, he abstained, just as Saša Peca, Mr Jelinčič abstained, but we were absolutely against three members of the Slovenian National Party and we are still against him. The ones I counted, you have the credit to have a professional soldier today. And what's a soldier's profession? Warring or fighting, I'm sorry, that's how it is. Possible victims, colleagues and colleagues, all appointed, please write it down to your account. You and you, alone and alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr. Lahovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. No resolution or similar United Nations documents oblige Slovenia to be active in Iraq. It is the sovereign decision of the Janša government, which it has taken without discussion in the National Assembly. Today, on the Foreign Policy Committee, we have not received any answers to the simple questions on the basis of which the official Iraqi request and to which this request was addressed, Slovenia responded and sent its troops to Iraq. We didn't get an answer. They also did not receive an answer to a number of other questions. They didn't get an answer to why we're going to Iraq now, when we get out of there, say, Great Britain, after a hundred British soldiers died there. We didn't get an answer to a whole bunch of other questions. Instead, we have been served with a good measure of arrogance and the facts, honourable Members and Members, are the following. Janša's government has decided to deploy soldiers to Iraq and has justified this by three lies. Three lies. The first lie is that the former government has made that decision. We know that this is not true because there were no Slovenian soldiers in Iraq, because the ministers of the previous government, except perhaps with the exception of one who is now in the new government, and because the then Prime Minister Tone Rop opposed it. The Slovenian government has not decided and has not sent Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. This is a fact, this is an empirical fact, the number of soldiers during the Government of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Iraq - nothing, now four soldiers are down, and today we have heard the Minister of Defence that maybe, what do we know about what will happen in a month or two, maybe then this contingent will be further increased. The second lie is the lie of the Prime Minister himself in Trenj. He calmly told the entire Slovenian public that Slovenia is the only member of NATO that is not yet active in Iraq. The obvious lie, however, is no one really wonders why the Prime Minister can tell such a lie to the entire Slovenian public. And third, perhaps the worst lie, is that, you said that the security situation due to Slovenia's presence in Iraq in Slovenia is nothing different than it was before. At the same time, we have documents that, for safety reasons, the names of Slovenian instructors in Iraq will remain hidden because the safety of their family members would otherwise be compromised. If this is true, how can you say that the security situation in Slovenia is not significantly different! Even in the face of all terrorist attacks resulting from the interference of certain countries in Iraq. Of course, once again, I would like to answer that disgusting lie that Mr Grims said when we called on the Committee on Foreign Affairs to reveal the names of these instructors. That's not true. We have warned of the lie that you cannot say on the one hand that the security situation in Slovenia has not changed, but you must tell yourself that, for safety reasons, you must hide even the names of the instructors who will go to Iraq. So that there is a great deal of inconsistencies in your implementation, Mr. Secretary-General. The facts are as follows: Jansev's government is sending the Slovenian Army to Iraq, Jansev's government is taking full responsibility for this. And the fact is, there were no Slovenian soldiers in Iraq during the previous government, and now they will. Everything else, when you try to find some facts, what someone has thought, forgive them, but they are purely mere conjecture, cowardice, and show that you are not confident enough to say that you have made up your mind and that you must take full responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia has never actively cooperated with the US-British "willing coalition" in the Iraq War. The fact is, however, that the decision to deploy four military instructors to Iraq does not mean that we are involved in combat operations. We must all agree that there must be a stabilisation of the situation in Iraq as soon as possible. I do not want to repeat those cases that have been said several times, but I must mention, nevertheless, that the basis for the decision on the deployment of four soldiers to Iraq was adopted already in 2004. The main reason for the referral, however, was the promise to participate in the stabilisation of Iraq. Whether training was provided for in Iraq or in a third country, I think it is totally irrelevant. We have committed ourselves and we have also committed ourselves to helping Slovenia stabilise the situation in Iraq. As long as, through the media, some continue to point out the unsustainable situation, the chaotic situation in Iraq, to the tragedy of the inhabitants, nothing will be better in Iraq. It must be in everyone's interest that the sea ends in Iraq and that the Iraqis actually take power. However, in order to do so, it is necessary, clearly, to train Iraqi members of the security forces in order to eventually address the new situation. In my opinion, stability in Iraq is also of strategic importance for the wider area of this part of the world. I would also like to point out the movement and non-state action of the opposition, which have explained that some of the largest European countries are not involved in training the Iraqi security forces. This is deception and falsehood. Germany was mentioned, Spain was mentioned. In 2004 and 2005, Germany alone trained more than 600 Iraqi military officers. However, I have already pointed out whether it is in a third country, or whether it is in Iraq, is totally whatever, it is the purpose of what we want to achieve with this - we want to create a condition for a decent life. Slovenia's participation in NATO operations and under the auspices of the UN certainly strengthens our foreign policy position, certainly. Remember how we felt in 1991 when we did not have many allies. Some countries have helped us in some ways, and we were grateful to them, obviously in LDS and SD you've forgotten that, and personally I haven't forgotten that, and I still remember what it was like at that time. And there are Iraqis in a similar situation today. They need help and we simply must not stand by and look at the problem only from a distance. All I'd like to do is point out who these guys are going to Iraq. These are professional soldiers, highly qualified, highly equipped experts, professionals who think completely differently than we think. They consciously decided on a soldier's profession. They view this mission as part of their work obligation and it is right to view it this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. There's a word for Mrs. Master of Purgatory. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and thank you for the correct forecast. Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In my previous mandate, I was a member of the permanent Slovenian delegation in the Western European Union Assembly, and this experience showed me that the security and defence issues are more than the answers to them, and there I became accustomed to the culture of dialogue when parliamentarians from the same country had different views on the same issue. This helped me to endure the ugly markings when I was among those that could be labeled as natosceptics. The referendum will was clear and in line with it I also voted in favour of ratifying the accession to this international association. This is where the second part of the story begins. The absent Minister Erjavac should be told that the deployment of soldiers or instructors to Iraq by what he said was credibility, this is an exercise, this is an assessment, this is not an argument. I would be very grateful if I could hear the real arguments for this decision, given that different options are offered. As I would like to hear true arguments that we are those who express any doubts about the sense of sending instructors to Iraq against democracy. There was a talk about democracy, when NATO is also a community based on values - I believe, but I find it difficult to accept the thesis that meaning or acceptance of democracy should only be linked to NATO. I am interested in values, but I am also interested in what is being done on behalf of these values and what are the effects of the actions being done on behalf of these values. To convince us today that everything the Americans are doing in Iraq and elsewhere in the world, everything on behalf of democracy, but it would be a little naive not to say anything else. And now I want to touch another problem. I keep hearing that they're going into operations from Slovenia or that there are boys in operations. As far as I know, there are also several girls in the Slovenian Army. This is where the problem begins, however, how the state of Slovenia has taken care of all those involved in these missions and actions, because it is possible to talk about four volunteers going to Iraq, but at the same time it is necessary to know that a professional soldier has the right to refuse once and then to be determined if there are no volunteers. I also know that a number of careers or careers of a professional soldier have gone differently if he has even denied going abroad, not on a military mission - because the state of Slovenia has not taken care of the family of such a professional soldier. At the same time, it was not taken care of where the children were going to go to school and what else. That's why these are serious questions that I'm asking. The other thing that bothers me with these four instructors or question me is the following. Mr. Minister Erjavec said it was a minimum team. Mr Prime Minister said that the four in Iraq were an appropriate number according to the number of inhabitants of Slovenia. From this I wonder how the future will now come out of this. Is it possible to see an increase in the number for this different interpretation? [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Jerovšek, this has become boring, as you are joking at the expense of my name. So here I would expect to receive an answer to such a question as to whether the contingent that is supposed to be in Iraq is envisaged for enlargement. So the question that comes up is a lot. The arguments and the true arguments, unfortunately, have not been heard so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this hall! It is kind of symptomatic that today, among the most vocal opponents of sending four Slovenian instructors to NATO, the training mission of the Iraqi security forces is precisely those who were the quietest during the self-conservation war in Slovenia. At the time, refugees or secretaries were or were domestic traitors; in short, they were not heard as they were today until the situation was settled and until it was clear which side they had to take. Today, however, when we are alone and in the European Union, in relation to NATO and far from the crisis hotspots, they are polarising. With all these Balkan and global conflicts, which we have witnessed in the last ten, twelve years, when Slovenian soldiers and Slovenian police were also involved in peacekeeping missions, there were no fatalities among Slovenian soldiers. But there were casualties on the press side. During the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, two Slovenian journalists died, Ivo Standekar and Aloise Krivograd-Fut. Both died in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992. First in Sarajevo, second in Focha. From Aloise Krivograd Futje the photos were published in Newsweek and other important European and world media. And here we could ask ourselves if we need to go to the front of the press, if we need to go to war with the press. In real journalists there is a desire to inform the public, to reveal the truth on the spot. And true and objective information can also contribute to peace, to understanding what is happening in an area. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the presence of adrenaline in some journalists, which is reporting from the scene. Of course, cowardly journalists do not go to crisis areas and no one blames it, because war rapporteurs are really a class to themselves. And so a professional soldier who has decided on a military profession has to count on not only going to parades, that he will not only go to celebrations, but that he may eventually find himself in crisis situations. Almost every profession has a certain degree of risk, even in this national council, because you never know when someone will hit you in the back of the head. Slovenian instructors or soldiers, as we call them, volunteered themselves. So they're going to train Iraqi military forces voluntarily, which is good. Better than going there on orders. However, any military superstructure in some way is based on orders and it would not be too bad or strange if Slovenian soldiers went to Iraq as ordered. And a few more words about the so-called inadmissible withdrawal of the code of confidentiality from the secret document by the Secretary of Defense. In recent days, the result and cause have often been replaced. More attacked was the fact that the former government minister withdrew the mark secretly from some paper than the fact that the previous government had agreed to send the Slovenian army to Iraq, to the side of the aggressor forces, which is also black and white written on this document. Minister Erjavec withdrew this mark so that he could defend himself against attacks and lies so that he could defend himself and that he could defend the institution of the ministry or state and that the Slovenian public could communicate this truth to the public. This was forced by the opposition, which also collected signatures for this extraordinary meeting. Now he can ask himself perhaps a bit philosophically. Point to what else: either more is the truth or the label is classified. Can the truth be concealed secretly or confidentially? For me, the truth over the mark is secret, and I am not in favour of the experiments that the former government has tried or enforced, that is, in the spirit of the manner of the secret official papers of the former SFRJ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and Members. So I was one of those Members who had already been in the previous Council of State and, in fact, I have always, like most, advocated that Slovenia become a member of NATO, even more. My colleague Peca read here today from a magnetogram all those who were not in favour of the referendum and we voted in the National Assembly that Slovenia could, of course, become a member of NATO without having a referendum. We knew that this was an extremely delicate question, and we also knew that most Slovenes and Slovenians, as far as the referendum was concerned, would support it, and that was what happened. Why I was so sure that Slovenia had to step on NATO, I will remind you of only one event, that Sunday 1990, when Slovenia experienced a 10-day war, we were alone in Ormož and Ormož on Sunday morning, you know that there were barricades on the border between Croatia and Slovenia and those barricades were burning, but a radio message by the then Minister for Information, I think that was called Mr. Kacin, and it was announced on the radio, everyone in shelter because they were in the military base, I think it was Obrovec, flying military aircraft and approaching Slovenia. Little behind that was the announcement that the planes had returned and later we could hear that at the same time the military aircraft of the Yugoslav National Army flew, our army against Slovenia said that at the same time they also flew into the air military aircraft of NATO, in the Italian base of Aviano. So whether that was true or not at the time, but that's how the funds informed us at the time. This means that NATO, although we were not members of this organization at the time, has already taken part in the protection of our interests and in the protection of the non-war in this area. Although, fortunately, the war was short, it claimed its victims, but thank God, Slovenia was proportionate to "small victims", if we can call it that, it got out of this and achieved its own. Later, when I was a Member, we had the opportunity to host politics in this house with Kosovo, to meet and talk with them, and to tell us that they were most afraid of it if Nat's soldiers were to withdraw from this area, and that it was in fact the wish of everyone to stay, because otherwise this war flame could burn again at any time and we would have a situation that no one really wants. Something similar is happening today in Iraq. The war ended in Iraq and now there is a period in which democratic authorities in Iraq are to take power. And most of these people who live here, this tormented Iraqi nation, of course, want it heartily. And it seems to me that if you have something to do with the Slovenians, we can only take from Nate what "feeds us" what is not good, but what we leave only to them, it seems to me to be a product of extraordinary egoism, which we can also hear about. I'm sure the Slovenians and Slovenes are tired of this darkness. This was discussed by the Foreign Policy Committee at the request of the opposition, then by the Defence Committee; well, today the National Assembly is meeting with this topic. I think it would be much better if, for example, we spent this time in the National Assembly, but I don't know, talking about what is happening to our Croat Slovenes, and we could take any conclusions in this National Assembly, help them, or, if you like, we could talk about the bird flu that we obviously have in the Republic of Slovenia, as well, rather than making such a cry and scream about four instructors who are already ready and who will go there to one protected base and will transfer our Slovenian knowledge to these security authorities of the new Iraq country. So it seems to me that there would be much more benefit from this, and we welcome this move in New Slovenia, which is the principle of the President of the State who is aware of clearly different from the party that has not yet belonged to it, of this catastrophic situation in Sudan, Darfur. And I'm asking you what would happen if - because it's obvious that with some debates, discussions and invitations to this area, it's not going to be possible to stabilize - so the only real force in the world today that can make some conditions in Sudan for the end of this sea are the forces of NATO. And sooner or later, it will be possible for NATO to intervene there as well, and I wonder if you will agree that on the proposal of the President of the State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Sok, let's stay in Iraq.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u74	We're at Nate's.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u75	In Iraq.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u76	We are not in Iraq, we are in Slovenia, we are in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u77	No, in Sudan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u78	We can talk about it this way because we're far from there. But I would like to point out in this debate that we agree in Novi Slovenija, the government has made the right decision, not even the previous government has informed us and has not held a debate in the National Assembly when sending soldiers to Afghanistan and to other crisis hotspots. So if, as the opposition is doing now, it is obstructing for every matter, and then extraordinary sessions require, if that is not enough, it sends the laws to the Constitutional Court, I think that we cannot really get far with this, because there are far more important issues before our people and, in fact, we should primarily address these issues than the National Assembly. Therefore, in order for the government to withdraw its decision, we will certainly not vote in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! A few more thoughts or some of my lessons that have happened to me at this time when I am listening to today's debate. I would like to reiterate that the Government's decision to send four volunteers to Iraq is legal and legitimate. Today I have not heard from either the Prime Minister or the two ministers who have been performing and who have tried to respond to some of our allegations that the representatives of the government would argue that the decision to have our four soldiers go to Iraq is a matter of the previous government. I didn't hear that today. But I heard a fellow man, mag. Robbery, when he said on TV that he wasn't talking - not that he wasn't negotiating, but that he wasn't talking - that anything was going on with Slovenian soldiers in connection with Iraq. Understandably, I will say whether it is understandable to me, then, the decision of both the Minister of Defence and the Government to deny this statement, which was made on Slovenian television. I think that this was in Odessa, my colleague Rob, when you said that she said that the government had negotiated - with all due respect for the different form of involvement of Slovenian soldiers in the then possible form of cooperation and, I will say, as it was verified either in the government or in the National Assembly, that five Slovenian officers or subordinates were then trained, possibly and agreed, in a centre in Jordan, where we probably were not the organizers of this centre, but I think there was a talk about Denmark or I don't know what country this centre was to establish. And with all due respect, Comrade Rob, when you're defending this or today, when you're saying: we didn't agree - because you never said you had an agreement either, but you said you didn't even talk! For this reason, I propose that we try to say some more until the end of this debate, which may take 3 hours and 40 minutes after the time, to try to discuss these proposals for conclusions that you have presented. I also said myself that I am consumed by the explanation given today by both the Prime Minister and both ministers of the first five, the sixth being 'discussible'. I think that it is necessary to agree on this and to discuss it further and possibly, as you yourself have written down, to make it legal to write it down in law, to make it known to the National Assembly; or even to write it down there, I think that even with the prior agreement of the National Assembly such decisions could be taken by the Government. She didn't have to do that now. The seventh proposal for a decision - I will repeat what most said - that we would be extremely unworthy if we said so, but now we will withdraw what I said earlier was legitimate and legally accepted by the government. Therefore, President, I repeat once again, because I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members that proposals for conclusions such as they were - no. I will personally support both decisions as adopted by my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I must first say that I have a little nervous because I have heard quite a few military experts and analysts now and too many have taken our membership in NATO. Last but not least, it's equality, not least we're not just talking about Iraq, but we're already sending these forces to Sudan, to Darfur. That's why one general thought came to my mind for all these military experts who once said, "Don't fight the war anymore, but don't stay behind. The best part is you're not there, and then the war ends the fastest." The government's decision to send military instructors to Iraq is a direct entry into the territory that the United States and its allies attacked and occupied, without the mandate of the United Nations, but only on the basis of the interests and appetites of the Bush administration. I think I heard that assessment and that position when it happened in this national assembly, and elsewhere. The first time I heard about this referral, I told myself, 'cause that can't be true. It has not been a year since both the defence and the foreign minister of Slovenia claimed that Slovenia would not send soldiers to Iraq. Minister Erjavec, this has already been said today, in Gornja Radgona and Minister Rupel, when he defended the embarrassing statement made by the Prime Minister in Brussels. But it will obviously be necessary to get used to the fact that the government's moves are always true, they are the only real ones and for the benefit of Slovenia and its citizens, whether it is the deployment of soldiers to Iraq or the introduction of, say, uniform tax rates when we are talking about reforms. So this is another decision by the government and the government coalition, and this is an important political decision when the government has assessed that it does not need a broader political consensus, but enough if this consensus is in the parties to the government coalition. Therefore, to take a decision without Parliament and without parliamentary consultation. Which, of course, puts us, Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, in the position of needless negativists. This is also, in some ways, my conclusion today from the proponents of the referral by the MPs of the ruling coalition. Here is another example of the government's relationship with the National Assembly, namely the legislative branch of power. Indeed, the government has been given a mandate and can act in a sovereign manner in accordance with the laws, constitution and its powers, and it does not need to consult anyone if it does not want to. But when it comes to the security of citizens, and not only soldiers going to Iraq, but all of them, this rule does not apply. In this case, it is not only the safety of these four instructors or those who will go into the future, but it is the security of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, the government's decision to send soldiers to Iraq is not only a political and merely fulfilment of obligations as members of NATO, but it is much more. The arguments on the urgent obligation, on the demonstration of the credibility of Slovenia to the international public is the blurring of facts; and one of these facts is that the Iraq War and the occupation of Iraq are not the liberation of Iraq, but the demonstration of American power worldwide and the conflict of civilization. That is why this decision by the Government is inappropriate, unnecessary and particularly risky, as the President of my party has not last said, especially since there has been increasing pressure on the world public and, in particular, the United States of America and its withdrawing satellites from Iraq in recent times. So when others in the backstage weigh the pressure of the local public after we leave Iraq, we make a decision to send soldiers to Iraq. In short, by this decision on our presence in Iraq, Slovenia reminds us that we are there and that we support the strategy when NATO members make an aggression, an occupation without consensus in NATO, in some way forcing all other NATO members to participate in the establishment of peace in those same countries. Of course, I do not personally support such policies. Finally, about the secrecy that was discussed today, about the documents. I, too, have been advocating for the entire year that they withdraw from the documents of the code of secrecy, especially when it comes to the possession of Slovenian state property, and we cannot achieve that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. We've been talking about war all the time today, and I'd start on the other side. It is probably all of us who are here and against the war against crises that we are advocating for how to save them, but the fact is that a world without wars without crises means an ideal situation, but we know that the world is not ideal and that the world is real. Because it is real, unfortunately we too had to learn about the major crises in our neighbours in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And since it wasn't then President Bush when it happened in the Balkans, then this thesis, it's all Bush's fault, it probably won't hold. He was neither younger nor older, but he was even another president, and you're not likely to say that in the Balkans, the Americans cooked all this murder that was going on. So let's let this go because it won't hold. It is likely that the events and those of which we are talking are the mirror of a moment, of a particular moment, and of some circumstances. The fact is, however, that answers to these individual events must be realistic and even in some real time. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if, at the time of President Roosevelt's presidency, the Americans were to talk like this about whether they were going to invade Normandy in 1943, or maybe two years, five years or ten years later, then it would probably be very different in Europe. So we have to have these things in front of our eyes. If I go to Iraq now, I'd say so. You know, even the responses to the murder of several thousand Kurds, purely ordinary villagers, who had no connection with the uniform, in one night, with the gas - probably also requires some specific answers and proves that those events in Iraq when the gas was used to kill innocent villagers, indicate that dictatorships, regardless of color or ideology, do not choose the means or environment or the victims, do not matter to them at all. And if NATO hadn't intervened, first in Bosnia and then in Kosovo, we probably wouldn't have just one Srebrenica. As a result, we would not only have 20,000 refugees in Slovenia, says one refugee per 100 citizens, but would have significantly more. And then we all directly asked that something be done within the framework of NATO, because such a situation in the Balkans, in Bosnia, cannot continue. Let's remember that! But now we've forgotten all about it? Now we have the situation we have in Iraq, and things can't stay that way. They also learned that in the United Nations. And because they realized that, they'd adopted four resolutions. [[I'm not gonna read you numbers.]] . However, the purpose of all resolutions is to call on UN Member States and international organisations to contribute their forces to stabilising the situation. With this decision, the Republic of Slovenia assumes its part of its responsibility to comply with the Resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations and thereby to ensure international peace and stability. I'd like to remind you of something else. We have heard several times that this should be decided by Parliament in Slovenia. Of course, that wouldn't be a problem. However, legislation that says that this is not necessary has been adopted, and I think it was adopted in 1997. And let me ask you, who accepted it? Who had the majority back then? It's neither a year nor an important president, it doesn't matter. But then it was adopted and now these people are demanding a different attitude to this same legislation. Now what I want to tell you is essential. At that time, I had the honour of being the president of the Defence Committee for two terms. At that time, I was never informed, not an hour or a minute or a day earlier, that our troops would go to Bosnia, Kosovo, Syria, even Afghanistan. But I didn't have a problem with that, because there was just no need. Why is that? Why is that? I've been getting information, I admit, but never about it. Now this is wrong if the President of the Parliamentary Defence Committee is informed in advance. It wasn't like that before. So this government is already doing much differently. That's right, and that's what I wanted to remind you of. And now this. It has been said that millions of people have been demonstrated against this war. Yeah, it's true. But they were also like Martha Gregorčič, who was collecting the resources of well-meaning people, and then apparently she did not go to Iraq, but she spent more honeymooning days and weeks somewhere in Cargrad. I'm not "fowch" to her. Just don't blind us with all sorts of maneuvers that don't take us anywhere and have nothing to do with reality. The world is real, and real events must also be responded to. And now for the end. It was heard that the government guaranteed that this would not happen now. This reminds me very much, unfortunately, of 1991, when people from the same government option, when we were on our own, demanded that the government guarantee that JLA would not attack us. Please! It's the same option now. I'm not saying they're the same people. I'm not saying that because it would be pointless. But the same questions are now emerging. This is a little strange, so I will not support those seven demands, but only what has been adopted on the Foreign Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If our civilization continues with past examples, then we are already at the evening of this civilization. I'm also talking about how we didn't learn anything from the wars that were. If I go only 600 years ago, when Christophe Columbus came to Cuba in 1492, what the European state brought him back then. Nothing but naked robbery, like naked conquest. When they arrived, there were over 100,000 natives on the island, 32 years later, and only 893 Indians in 1524. That thing went on. The Spaniards, the English, the Portuguese, the French went to South America, one to North America, levelled with the land of Teno Pitlan, even though with gifts came into their hands the head of Inquio Atahualpa, they locked him in a room, demanded of him, [[I was in this room.]] that as long as his hand reaches high when they have brought this vessel, what have they done? [[...]] They brought him to the sea and killed him with a garrote. They ripped out Cusko, took all the diamonds in the solar temple, drowned 105 plates, put them on ships, sent them to Europe, and there were those who were there, the national heroes, the greatest heroes, and we learn about them from history. They killed over 70 million people there. This is more than Europe had at that time. They were roasted on fire, driven on their bicycles, destroyed their culture, taken away from them everything that was, civilisation, put them on a cliff, and prepared them to be their fourth-rate slaves. But killing them meant too little, respectable friends and colleagues. And what did we Europeans remember? We brought 850,000 slaves from Africa. Whole provinces were looted. People were put on a ship, under impossible conditions, and sold there as animals. And for that civilization, there was no shame in slavery until people came to this realization that in 1865 only slavery was abolished in America, 1880, 6 years later, and Mexico. But at that time, respected colleagues and colleagues, this trend of war ended. Look what happened in India, look where Australia is now, who's staying there, where the natives are, where all those civilizations are. We wiped all of them off the face of the earth by Europeans or part of Europeans. That's the truth. And the Holocaust that was present in World War II is a small thing compared to what our grandfathers and great-grandparents did when they conquered foreign territories and wiped out entire nations from the face of the earth. But we didn't learn anything. Poor Europe, when it stopped with these things, and in the midst of the small war that they were, went to World War I, went to World War II. Just for the sake of World War II, I'm talking about numbers all over the world now, they made 799 thousand aircraft, first-class killing machines, 287 thousand tanks, first-class killing machines. There were 18 million 979 soldiers dead, 30 million 821 civilians dead. In total, 49 million people were killed in World War II alone. And we say we're civilized. Back when I was a kid, you know, growing up in another country, they said, "war no more." This is a disgrace to humanity. And politicians should be the ones who save in such a way that it does not happen. She was a good match for World War II. Who's to blame? Not my father who fought there and I lost him. They went to Nuerenberg, who cooked this war, and those politicians were the most responsible and waited for them to hang. I thought that peace and you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, as was normal in the past, that slavery would be something from which people traded, lived and had some standard, so in time, respected, even a war for this civilization would be something extremely primitive. And the Slovenian people have never participated. This is the first government that's ever been and sent us there. Like the Chinese who say what's even more sophisticated, if anyone's hungry, don't give him fish, but teach him how to fish. We have two black stains. The Foreign Minister would have had an inappropriately easier negotiation with Croatia if he had not been sold compositions and compositions of weapons at retail prices. I'm sure it would have been easier, but with that weapon, people were killing themselves there. That's our black mark. The second black mark was the conclusion of the government and those behind it to help train people to kill them in Iraq, with which Slovenia has never had much in common. I think this decision of the government is one that takes us away from the bright ideals of humanity and if asked by Minister Quo Vadis Slovenia? With that decision, you go into the dark, you go into evil, and you go into disaster. I'm ashamed of this decision in the third millennium. And at least we, a small nation like us, should be more rebellious and speak with this language and humanity to direct another path. But it's not like we're going to help four Iraqi instructors win democracy. And I'm also wondering, what would happen if we didn't have Iraq and it was Vietnam? Would you like to go back there? Who was the winner there? What did they prove to anyone there? What did our civilisation in Australia prove in North America that she had proved in South America in the past? What does Iraq prove now? And it seems to me that as long as humanity is at this stage, that the excess of what the arms industry will do in the wars will sell nicely, and that we will walk oil for weapons, then I will not be here in this way, and my constituents will not be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Zlone Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present, and a nice greeting is on my behalf as well. I am very pleased that the predecessor has given me this point and I hope, Mr Vice President, that you will not stop me, just as you have not stopped him, if I am a little out of the darkness that is now on the agenda of this extraordinary session. I'll go down maybe one percent of what my predecessor went down. I think that, given what we have on the table today and what has been said so far, there is no longer any doubt that the opposition is this issue of principle in the absence of alternatives to serious development issues, and not least because of the concern for the four voluntary members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who are supposed to train the Iraqi security forces and not because they are concerned about the security of our country or our citizens and citizens, but only because of the acquisition of political points in the internal political field. This is not the case with the emphasis given at the time of the request to extend the agenda of the regular session. You'll remember, the first-signed said it, the public opinion is against, and we're not going to discuss it. Really. So let's start collecting signatures for Afghanistan. For I am sure that the public opinion of the departure of soldiers to Afghanistan will be accompanied by the same disfavor as the question of Iraq, if the media are so wide-ranging about this as they are about Iraq, if the emphasis is similar and if the protagonists are deliberately or even out of ignorance, even out of ignorance, which I think is even worse, mixing apples and pears. For we are talking about the departure of four volunteers for training the Iraqi forces, as a contribution to bringing peace to this country. All the arguments for the conclusions read by one of the candidates for the extraordinary meeting stem from the sub-theme that our four volunteers go to war operations and not to the training of Iraqis on the basis of United Nations Security Council Resolution 15/46. And if such arguments are recorded in a modest weekly circulation, then this is one dimension. However, if these allegations are summarized by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, then it is a politically irresponsible and extremely risky exercise, because manipulation on such serious subjects as this can have a shorter political effect, and the political damage to the country that will be created is unfortunately irreparable. I think it's bad, it's inappropriate, it's unnecessary and extremely irresponsible. On 18 January, we heard a very harsh disqualification of the Prime Minister by one of the LDS Members, Comrade Školč. He said that Janša’s decision led Slovenia into ruin. However, we are used to such and similar fears by individual LDS Members. Let us recall, for example, Mr Cwickl's statement, which in a slightly less harsh way tried to disqualify the President when Slovenia did not join a group of countries that was willing to give up part of the cohesion funds in order to adopt the Luxembourg proposal in mid-2005. At that time, respected colleague Cwickl said that the Prime Minister had gone to bed rather than to negotiate this so-called poor compromise proposal. We see that he did not go to sleep, but he made a responsible decision at that time, a decision which was made last year at the end of the year, because we were the only country to succeed in a better proposal than it was in the Luxembourg proposal at the time. At that time, too, there was evidence of how bad that decision was. Time has shown like I said it wasn't, and so time will show for that decision. Mr. Lakhovnik, then you can say, let me finish, because I'm not finished yet, you'll be able to say something about a payphone to anyone else. Thus, time will show that this decision by the Government to send four military instructors to Iraq was correct. Today, according to my assessment, policy at such a high level would be expected to speak seriously about what was adopted by the government on 12 January this year. So that we can talk about whether the government's decision, whether we want to recognise it or not, is merely continuing the former government's policy, of course, in a different form and with a different approach. I have already pointed out that this is about assistance in training and not about any agreements on participation in combat operations, as was the case in 2003, which some of you are constantly and increasingly pushing and burdening this debate to talk about whether this decision is really bad for Slovenia and our citizens and citizens. And if we look at the documents, if we look at the material that we have on the table, if we take everything that's been said and heard so far, I think we can only find one answer to that question. And this answer is that the decision taken by the government for Slovenia at a given time and taking into account all circumstances is only possible. This decision makes it very clear to the Council that we agree that conditions are stabilizing in this part of the world and that we want to work together and help ourselves. And once this situation is stabilised, we also want to participate in stabilisation in other areas. In my view, in no way do we jeopardize the interests of our country or our citizens and citizens any less than we do because of cooperation in Afghanistan. And then there was this shouting and screaming. Of course, there is another option: we can put ourselves at the pacifist level, we must take into account the peace initiatives, we must respect them, we must respect them, we must respect them, and we can quietly observe the situation and push the sand head, but then we should apply the same to Afghanistan and to all other crisis areas. I think that, given our membership in various international associations, we can no longer afford this. I believe that this would be irresponsible and short-sighted, such as irresponsible communication about what was adopted in 2003. The Defence Minister Grisold's document of 8.7.2003 makes it very clear, "The Slovenian army will have the status of occupation power". "Bo," no, "I would." And why did the matter stop, as has been said many times? She stopped for a completely simple reason. At that time, Rob's government, the decision that our country was proposed to participate in the occupation forces, that this decision was not taken, was a simple reason. Before entering NATO, the Slovenian public would be too revolutionary and the referendum for entry into NATO would not have been successful. That was the reason. The paradox is that people from a party who wanted to send Slovenian soldiers to the first kind of war in Iraq are now telling us or telling us what the current government is doing. But we talk about helping to bring peace all the time. And only those who resort to these themes irresponsibly manipulate different expressions. I would like to tell you, dear colleagues and colleagues who have proposed this point that, when the Slovenian Democratic Party was in opposition, it was possible not only to have a slightly more responsible attitude when it entered NATO but also to deal with other issues that were controversial in the field of public opinion. And I would expect the current opposition, especially in view of its actions at the time of its being in power, to be able to have a slightly more responsible attitude. I think that the policy pursued by the main opposition party in this case is irresponsible and is a long-term bad policy. While it has current positive effects in the internal policy area, it is in the long term if I paraphrase your President from a statement he made regarding this withdrawal of secrecy regarding the Minister of Defence of Erjavac, if this statement is paraphrasing, respected, colleagues and colleagues from the LDS, I think it is a policy that operates at the level of village affairs, for policies that go along with this policy, but I think that they are mature to move from opposition to history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u89	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Unlike the reply just given by Mr Cernač, I should say that I am a completely different opinion about him and that it is useful to discuss this today. I do not understand that Members and members of the coalition believe that the issue of referral, indeed, that only four Slovenian military instructors in Iraq, cannot be, cannot be, cannot be, that it is harmful, that there is a poor debate in the National Assembly. I just don't understand. And you will be able to continue to accuse, and Mr. Chernač is someone else, that we are irresponsible, that we are doing well to take advantage of domestic opportunities for some of our cheap propaganda and we are doing damage we will eventually find out what is true. Only if you want to make this Parliament on this foreign policy and defence issue for an obedient voter, in which it is not even allowed to speak anymore, and the issues concerning most citizens and citizens should not come on the agenda, then we are presenting this Parliament very, very differently. You can do it your way, I won't tell you this, I just want to tell you, I imagine it completely different. As I do by the way, I see other discussions about things that have been going on. And it seems useful to me that today we are discussing the problems of sending four instructors to Iraq also because such simplifications have been said that I simply cannot understand. For me, dear colleagues, the reasons why we all wanted to intervene in Bosnia, even in Serbia, even in Kosovo were in what? In that it was possible to say civil war, in that there was an international conflict, in that there was displacement or emigration and genocide, and there was tyranny in the important part of the people in Iraq. I agree. She was. But the direct reason why America then attacked Iraq was not in fact that Saddam Hussein killed Kurds, but in that it was declared that there was a serious danger that this nuclear weapon existed as a threat to a civilized or other world and that there was a need to safeguard Iraq's economic interests. So don't mix things up. This, of course, makes it very difficult to say what one mission is, what the other one is, what the third one is. And it's good that we're talking about this today, that we're going to see how very simplified we are with each other. As well as, ladies and gentlemen, in 1990 and 1991. None of Demos' government, Mr. Rupel and I, but someone else here, we were rarely here in the hall. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? From the Demos government, I haven't been to the Demos government, hasn't asked the opposition since then for guarantees that JLA won't attack us. Reverse. We have warned that there is a very serious danger of being attacked, so we have tried to propose steps that will reduce this danger. I recall my debate on the Constitutional Commission, where we have explicitly stated and recorded, this decision constitutes a decision for armed resistance in the event of an attack. And we have consciously identified ourselves for this. Therefore, all that you say to many ladies and gentlemen, who were not present and you were at the time in the seal when the Slovenian fate was seriously decided, I would say, are cheap demagogies and please don't do this. Why is today’s session beneficial? Also because, at least I, and I think that the Slovenian public had heard his arguments in seven points from the Prime Minister for the first time. We can accept them or not, but he has taken them down in seven points and they have clearly meant that this government has consciously decided that, for defence and foreign policy reasons, the credibility of our NATO membership is justified by the deployment of four soldiers. We have heard this for the first time, and I take these facts as a full responsibility for this decision. The whole debate was about how to say that the decision of this government is to continue some of the previous decisions. You have appointed the Secretary of Defense as the only one to defend this decision. And if I am allowed an assessment, this task has been very embarrassing and therefore unnecessary discussions have taken place, and without it this meeting today might not be necessary at all. What did the Slovenian public, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister Dr. Rupel, because you were the only one here, want to know? She wanted to know if it was really the only best decision she could make, or not because she was divided in that regard. Also divided by the fact that part of the Slovenian public was more friendly to all the moves that the United States had brought to Iraq, part was less friendly. The Slovenian public wanted to know whether this meant that we would always depend on the decisions of someone else who would put us in a position to just nod. So it was not good to be told that we were obliged to do so. We didn't. This is our conscious decision. And today's the first minister, thank God, he said that. Because this is not even an obligation under Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. There is a consensus within NATO. The decision to take place in Iraq instead of training in Jordan has also been taken in our agreement. Right to say, we thought it was a smart decision, and we made it. But we could have objected to that. And in fact, when it was also adopted with our consent, we considered it necessary that we also cooperate in Iraq with our instructors on this basis. These are the decisions that are right for us to know, but to explain why we could benefit from Slovenian defence foreign policy and so on, but not to create a feeling that we were obliged to do so, but we are not particularly pleased, because then people get the feeling and ask themselves - because you also hear - whether Belgrade will be the second time, or Brussels will be the third time or America the fourth time, but we will always be the ones that will have to make such a decision or other decision because of the big brother. That is also why today's debate is useful. And one last question. All those who claim that the government's decision was legal are right. Or was it legitimate, I don't know - depending on what most people would think about this decision. But since formal jurisdiction exists, the government can decide. However, she risked and misjudged the situation, whether it would have an echo or not in public. There has been an echo, so it is perfectly normal for us to come up with this before the debate in the National Assembly. And I would advise the government - and that is why this is also one of our conclusions - that, with regard to decisions that mean something new to the Slovenian public, because sending to a crisis hotspot directly means something new to the Slovenian public. The professional army also means something new, including the sending of professional soldiers voluntarily and later unwittingly to crisis hotspots around the world means something new. And in such cases, it is probably right to hold the necessary debate in both the national assembly and the public, but not to think that the conclusions of the government will make it possible to settle matters further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. A replica? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I've been unclear or if my esteemed colleague Potts has misunderstood something in what I've been saying. For I did not speak of the unnecessaryness of any debate in the National Assembly, but I spoke of the unnecessary way of presenting things as some have allowed in the proposal to convene this meeting as well as in today's debate. For if we are purely honest and look at the proposal of these seven conclusions, we can see that in the first six you are talking about how the government should ensure better information about what is going to happen in Iraq and why this decision should have been taken and so on, and in the seventh, this decision should be repealed. These things are intertwined and contradictory. That's not serious. And as for the rationality or usefulness of the session, I'm just a person who rationally sees things through effects. And if I look at this thing through the effect, what's in the end, it's practically null and void. This is a weak effect, given the discussions that are taking place, which are aimed in one particular direction that is not good. I have no objection to saying things and clarifying them, but I do object to certain data being distorted, that something that has been done in the past is trying to hide that it wants to manipulate itself and so on. That's what I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u93	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The urgency of sending instructors or actively participating in the establishment of a legitimately elected government of this government throughout Iraq has been demonstrated by the latest footage we have seen on television, when representatives of the occupying forces violently pull out a few demonstrators who demonstrate, protest and pull them up against one wall and brutally beat them to the point of even more serious bodily harm. With Slovenia sending instructors and helping to establish the civilian authority of the Iraqi government, I think it also strengthens or confirms the good relations that Slovenia has had in Yugoslavia with the State of Iraq. Remember, about 25 years ago, it was a flourishing country, a center of culture, a centre of science, and at that time they had already begun with intensive militarization of the country, with the production of weapons, because Škopheloška Jelovica was working a settlement of 500 assembly houses for the purposes of a military industrial complex. Later, Yugoslavia supported Iraq with weapons when it was at war with Iran for seven years. The air bridge was followed by wounded people to receive treatment at the Clinical Center, after a severe attack with blisters and napalm. It was said that they were made around the world, beautiful surgeons were preparing Saddam's doppelgangers, one of them even gave a confession, and rumors were saying that maybe one of them had been operated on at the Ljubljana Clinical Center. Later, when peace came over Iran and Iraq, the Yugoslav forces were on the border, taking care of peace. Later on, we heard of serious violence against Kurds. 300,000 Kurds killed with state-of-the-art military chemistry. Probably this chemistry was "made and Iraq," because these military-industrial complexes were doing something. And now that we've been looking for the reasons for the intervention of the Allied forces, I'm more wondering myself, not that this weapon wasn't, which I don't believe in, but where it was. Did he become the prey of the invaders, or did the Iraqis put him in a safe country? It's not so much about nuclear weapons as it is about biological-chemicals, which is even more dangerous. Indicators or indicators indicate that some Western European countries in Iraq have also supplied a number of these prohibited materials, either for long-range cannons or chemicals, which are procurators or baseline chemicals for dangerous warfare toxins or these heavy chemical weapons. In this light, when a new power is established in Iraq, where to take people. Bass’s dictatorial regime expelled or violently killed in concentration camps by various severe methods of torture most of the then elite, the majority of the people who would be able to establish power. Despite the oil dollars, despite the very good points, we have one doctor per 2,500 people in Iraq. Neighbors in Kuwait have a much better relationship because they invest not in the military but in the standard of their population. That is why, in this initiative or in these seven conclusions, in particular, I cannot agree with points 5 and 7 in particular. Point 5 requires the publication of such information, which may also have the status of war secrets and must not be discussed. Point 7 requires that the deployment of these four soldiers or these four instructors to Iraq be withdrawn. By doing so, Slovenia would lose credibility, thereby showing Slovenia that it does not want to engage in peace-building in Iraq. The people there have shown by the elections that they want peace, stability, and that they want to establish a situation as soon as possible when the occupying forces are no longer needed when they are able to withdraw gradually. In some areas, this is clearly the order that has already been established. We hear 2,000 Italians withdraw, talking about the return of the Poles. And that shows that perhaps slowly, because the task is difficult, this order in Iraq is established. President Saddam Hussein is the judge. This is also one of the processes of creating order. A colleague who went from Iraq to history would tell him that they were Tenochtitlan, that is, in Cindad de Mexico, ruled by the emperors of Montezuma or the angry master, in the time of the Spaniards. This was just thrown from the throne by their own people because he allowed the Spanish robbery and was succeeded by Emperor Nacahualpili. He defeated the Spaniards in battle, then Emperor Guatemalamock or the attacking eagle, who defended Tenochtitlan to the last. Tenochtitlán was essentially occupied by a street for the street, a lagoon for the lagoon, because Tenochtitlán was some sort of middle American Venice and was demolished in a genocidal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Today, to all due respect for the applicants of this extraordinary meeting, it is their right to decide on this debate, some consider it appropriate, some consider it less appropriate, but some consider it to be a contribution to peace. This is the decision of the Slovenian government, the right given to it by law and by the constitution. Today, the Prime Minister has numbered seven points from which I think it was clear why such a decision has been made. I believe that it was well thought out in the government before they put themselves into it and nevertheless confirms the correctness of such a decision by the Slovenian government when we are talking about four volunteers. I repeat, volunteers, instructors who will go on this mission. So much dust, so much said, so much written, so much heard about this subject, certainly in the past, when there were similar stories, I never saw or heard anything like it. This is probably a policy that can be made, certainly a public opinion of such things probably is not acceptable and there are not many other decisions. And I don't think today's debate has told me anything new that I wouldn't have read and heard. We're discussing this here. We'll be discussing it for hours. I think it's legitimate and normal, but it's about things when we repeat ourselves more and less all after each other. It is also true that the government could come, not least, to the National Assembly for approval. In my opinion, we would have had it, and we would have discussed the matter there. But I do not think that this was necessary in this case, and this practice of Slovenian governments has obviously not been so far. That's right. Secondly, it seems to me that by entering NATO, which was voted in the referendum with a high level of decision for, and also the parties in this Parliament, except for some, are for NATO. I think this is a positive story and it is a story that also has certain rights and certain obligations. Every membership is so, so I imagine it, and I believe it is very, very positive in this membership in NATO for Slovenia. And it is also likely that certain obligations are flowing from this membership, which the government has probably debated before deciding to send these four volunteers-instructors into this story. I think that this is also the consensus that this Parliament and this Slovenia have for membership in NATO is something completely normal. I believe that there will be a great deal of debate today in this extraordinary session on this subject. Probably, or certainly, the government will not change its decision after today’s extraordinary meeting. This has also been made clear today by the Prime Minister and by both ministers. I simply have to believe them, because this is our Slovenian government and I believe that it sees what is best for Slovenia and for this country. But it is true that elections will come over the years and that the voters will decide whether they are doing the right thing or not. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, I strongly believe and hope that there will be one of the future topics that will eventually come to an extraordinary session more about the Slovenian economy, unemployment, employment and so on. I think those are more important, very important topics for the future of Slovenia, for the future of our children, and not least for the better welfare of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I'm very excited about the darkness, and I'd like to be a part of it. I do not see any productivity in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear government officials, distinguished colleagues! I will also join my colleagues who warn and oppose sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq or participating in NATO's mission in Iraq. In both the party of the Social Democrats and myself, I received with amazement the information of 12.1.2006 that the Government had adopted a decision on the cooperation of soldiers in the NATO mission in Iraq. Surprisingly, for the government, a strange form of decision-making to travel to Iraq was surrounded by a national assembly, although it had, I know, a legal basis and indirectly gave an untrustworthy statement to citizens and citizens. We like to compare ourselves with other people. I therefore wonder: Why has the government not decided abroad to seek the widest political consensus in similar cases? I also agree with my colleagues' warnings that the government has taken a reckless and reckless decision for Slovenia, a decision for which not all the negative consequences of this act are taken into account, both for the participating soldiers, their relatives and, I can say, Slovenian entrepreneurs, for Slovenian tourists, and not least for citizens and citizens here in Slovenia. In order to respect all citizens and citizens and us elected in the elections, the government should provide information on the intention and, on the basis of the reasons and arguments presented, try to find the broadest political consensus. Given the government's actions, I'm sure the government is hiding something, and if I can speculate, it wants to make amends, but we don't know which one. In view of the current practice of this government, I should no longer be surprised by the behaviour of the government, and I find it difficult to believe that the government will act differently in the future. However, I expect that the government will give the right reasons for such a decision at this extraordinary meeting, which is still pending, as requested by the Members of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy, and will not hide behind the decisions and actions of the previous government, which did not send Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. At the end of the day, we have heard many more concerns and negative impacts on Slovenia for such a decision by the government. And given the fact and generally known how the ruling coalition in Parliament blindly executes the government's tasks by voting the opposition, it is clear to me that all our concerns and arguments are unfortunately not heard here in the National Assembly. And since I know there's not much to change back, let's keep looking ahead. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary of Defense, how many more soldiers does the government intend to send to Iraq as part of the NATO mission? How does Slovenia feel about participating in Iraq in the future? What does this bring for Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Miss Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are talking about sending four instructors to Iraq to help bring peace to Iraq. So it's not military action, it's trying to cleverly show the opposition more than once, but it's helping to ensure and restore peace and stability in this country. Unfortunately, as a NATO member, we cannot pretend that NATO's accession is only a unilateral aid because it is not. When you step into any organization or association, you must realize that it does not just give, but it also expects. The government's decision to send four instructors to Iraq is certainly principled, especially if we know that there have been previous talks by Mr Rob. I must say that as a woman, I certainly do not think about military matters as men's colleagues think, but I do believe that the government's decision, given the circumstances and the fact that we are NATO, was correct. This has shown that we or we can be a credible partner within NATO members, which, of course, the international community and the public expect us to do. Today we are talking about Slovenian soldiers who will participate in the education of the Iraqi armed forces and not in the fighting. These Slovenian soldiers have chosen their own profession. What's more, these Slovenian soldiers are such actions, they don't want missions. Because war would be so close to them, but especially because, like us who carry on our profession and become full - grown in it, they too want their way into a professional career. But when I listen to this debate in the National Assembly, I see that, in fact, it is not a problem of these four soldiers that we will send to Iraq, but of the fear that Slovenia should be threatened with if we send soldiers to Iraq. In the fear that is supposed to overtake all the pores of our little Slovenia, since the change of power in the elections. Even in the vocabulary of one of the Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it is likely that she will recognize herself in them, most of the time the word fear appears, which by the establishment of the new power of battle only increases. I must say, however, that I am now significantly less scared under this authority than I was under previous authority, because the government of Janez Janš behaves responsibly, maturely and reputably in the eyes of the international public. Also due to the deployment of these four soldiers to Iraq. Through them, Slovenia will be able to show itself as a country that wants to help and wants to create conditions in Iraq where citizens, especially children, can live a more normal life, which they certainly deserve. However, when we talk about the threat of Slovenia, which would threaten us when we send these soldiers to Iraq, of course I agree that because of this assignment we may be more at risk, but at the same time I believe that, given what has been happening in Europe in the last few days due to the cartoons of the prophet Mohamed published, I am convinced that because of the cartoons published in some Slovenian media, that I am not only exposing the Week of Youth, which is already known for its provocations, this can be a significantly greater threat to Slovenia than the four instructors sent to Iraq. Therefore, I think it is essential to raise the following question here: What really threatens peace in Slovenia, and who is the one who sows fear and acts impatiently in public? Finally, I would like to point out once again that this is not a military operation, but a NATO mission at a strictly protected training centre. Of course, it is not to be overlooked here that Mr Rop was negotiating - well, first it was said that he was not talking, then it was said that he was talking - he was obviously negotiating with the Danish Prime Minister about the military actions in southern Iraq. I am confident that the international community, as well as other NATO members, weigh and measure our credibility, Slovenian credibility and political responsibility. They mean whether we are prepared to stand for our time of commitment, expressed or initiated by the previous government under the leadership of Mr Rope. That is why I can say that this is the ultimate transfer of those who obviously prefer the bloody dictatorship of Saddam Hussein, rather than the stabilisation and democratisation of the situation in Iraq. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today there are many things to be heard, and at least what we would say about the government's arguments for its decision. I would like to quote a statement by former US Secretary of State Colin Powell, who said in a discussion on American television that he lost his reputation with a 2003 famous speech in which he advocated the attack on Iraq, which led to a real mess. "It's a stain," said Powell and added, "it was painful and still hurts." I think it is necessary to listen to the statement made by the person who played a very important role in the events before this decision was taken. Here I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the reason why it was going to Iraq was, as has already been said today, that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction, as has been said many times, which later proved to be a lie in the course of events. And if we link how and how the reasons for the attack on Iraq were presented, it is also necessary to link NATO and the voluntary coalition, because there is no easy equation here, because this equation could not be achieved, because some NATO members have clearly stated their views differently. And of course, what the former Secretary of State Colin Powell is saying is that it's a mess. And about Iraq, as we're assessing this situation today, we can certainly say it's a mix-up. A number of Security Council resolutions have also been recorded to address the situation in Iraq, calling for the assistance and participation of those who were not involved in helping to create and ensure peace in Iraq. Slovenia had a clear position here and understood this call. Of course, she has identified her role in this. At the time of the new government, there was a twist here. However, because today we have no reason on the part of the government or positions on the part of the government to explain the reasons for this act, I understand from the Minister that the debate of Members is not worthy of their hearing, because we speak here to those who do not want to hear us. There's no minister, there's no minister, there's no minister when we talk. And then, of course, how can we expect answers to what we are discussing here in Parliament, in the explanations, because questions have been raised that would have answered that it would have been possible to reach the broadest possible social consensus in the decision of the government. I think that the government here has missed the opportunity to see this consensus, that it would not be possible, of course, to assess over time, that we have decided on the basis of data that were not credible and that they have contributed to the confusion, not to the regulation of the situation. I was disappointed that, in fact, all the conclusions proposed by the motions for the meeting were rejected. Of course, I am even more concerned today about listening to such a very rapid assessment, and nothing about security is changing. I would then ask all those Members on the basis of which credible assessments you have reached such conclusions. I don't hope to pass them on like that. Of course, I have a question for those who have decided on this measure to give us a clear answer not only to what the security of these four individuals will be, by ensuring that we do not actually know the names, we are already talking about a certain degree of danger. And I would also quote here a statement from a Slovenian citizen who works in Iraq who says that so far I and my employees have felt relatively safe that Slovenia has not been involved in the Iraqi conflict. Now with your order to send Slovenian soldiers to Iraq is definitely over. It is only a matter of time before some extremist group realises this fact and then I and the Iraqis in our company will become the target of terrorism. Who will take care of our safety after the arrival of Slovenian soldiers in Baghdad? Do we have the answers to one clear question? I don't think we've heard that answer today. However, we have received many assessments as to how nothing changes in the area of security. I hope that the government will be able to answer this question by the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Jelinčič, who should speak before me, is not, for his presence would of course mean that he should correct the report of his client colleague, who said that the SNS disagrees with his departure to Iraq. Indeed, Jelinčič's statements were quite opposite and the presence of our soldiers in Iraq is not disputed, he said recently. Fear, the talk was about fear, that our fear of leaving Slovenian soldiers to Iraq was votel. If Iraq is so safe, how did more than 35,000 people die? Why are the British forces now withdrawing their troops from Iraq? Why is Italy currently withdrawing 300 of its troops and more? Is it because it's before the elections? Yes, the legitimate and legal decision is to be made, we have heard today, but in conflict it is the will of the people. More than 60, 70% of people are not satisfied with this government decision. And let me speak for these people today because they're addressing me because they're writing me because they're calling me because they're calling me and because they're saying that what Mr. Janez Janša said in the mid-1990s or '90s is something completely different that he decides and takes today. And what do people say? They say today we are talking about the first Slovenian occupation mission. To talk and face the Americanisation of Slovenian society, with which Slovenians and Slovenians are dissatisfied and disagree. We're sending four soldiers now. How many next time are we gonna be? How about 250? Can you do more? So what happened? And this is a fundamental problem that we are discussing today and we also want answers within this debate, of course not in the presence of the public, because today, meaningfully, we do not have a television broadcast; I think this is the second time that has happened in recent years when an extraordinary meeting does not have a direct transmission, although for the first time also by double breaking the law. In short, what happened to the government kneeling before the Americans? Why are we joining the willing coalition? To prove that we are a serious country - so you have said, Defence Minister, Mr Erjavec - who wants to make a serious contribution to the stabilisation of the world, or because you may have to settle an account issued by the Slovenian Democratic Party to the Americans? Is that it? We have read this account, which may have been created even before the elections in the electoral campaign, perhaps somewhere else, but the government is transferring it to the sons of none of the Slovenians and Slovenes. The government says, "Nobody's forcing us anywhere." I'm just quoting. There was a chance that no one would go to Iraq. If no one is forcing us anywhere and there is no obligation, then why are we sending soldiers to Iraq? Why? The Minister of Defense has one answer to why. He says: "The government has ruled that the departure of soldiers to Iraq is in our national interest. For national interests it is sometimes necessary to pay with blood or with life." I'm just quoting what you said. So it's a national interest. And let's ask people if death is in the national interest. Mr Janša, Mr Rupel, where are you, Mr Erjavec and everyone else, gentlemen and lady in the government, say, is one victim in Slovenia's national interest? Is Slovenia's participation in the occupation mission a national interest? Will this increase the visibility of Slovenia in the international community? Tell me, please. Is this about tourism promotion, economic promotion, cultural promotion? Will there be a baptism, and God forbid, a promotional material for Slovenia? Will we then boast that Slovenia is able and willing to sacrifice its blood on the altar under the pretext of doing so in the name of peace? The Americans also first sent their instructors to Vietnam as peace brokers. Later, half a million soldiers went there under the pretext of coming in the name of peace. What kind of peace? Certainly on behalf of the attachment to the world regulation vision demonstrated by the military occupation in Iraq. Slovenia has nothing to look for in this war. That is how it is and should be decided that this silenced person quickly adopts and with people the unpredicted decision annuls your decision and provides the possibility that Slovenia will not nod to the global capital interests of the world and will not act unethically, but ethically upright and humanely. Rather, invest money in humanitarian institutions, which are already doing so with a minimum of resources, but are very small, so that they can transfer their knowledge in humanitarian action, education of children and others and in other ways, not in the way that we go and join the occupying forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is also a greeting to the Minister and representatives of the Government. Of course, today we are commenting on a government decision that has been taken quickly, boldly, but the obvious time will show that the Slovenians do not look too favourably at it or that the long term will certainly harm us. Today, of course, there are debates in this room on both sides, in the air there are plenty of sand to make people see worse. Even in Iraq, where most of these military events are taking place in the desert and in the sand, but it is necessary to know that this sand is not a children's sandstone and I want our boys to go there and then come back, I don't want to see once a tombstone with a famous inscription in the style of that "Peter's cyclist died, he had the advantage," here you could say, "the soldier Janez died, he was primarily a pensioner and he was innocent". You know, in war and in life it's like a bullet and a medal rarely hits the right one. And those who haven't been hit by a real bullet are among the 35,000 who have already died in Iraq, the vast majority. Of course, less than soldiers were innocent and those who had nothing to do with this war, so such an explanation, if we go to an instruction or something like that, simply can't stand it. We're going to war there. Look, like, just the events of the last few days. You are witnessing what is happening in the world today because of the distasteful cartoons for which only pencil and paper were needed. But our boys are going to Iraq expensive and well-armed and undercover. Of course, they don't carry flowers with them, but they carry guns. Everyone knows what this thing has ever been in their hands, what it's used for - it's used to kill with it or defend yourself, not to kill. However, both are bad and especially for Slovenian taxpayers it is unnecessary and extremely expensive. As a result of the Danish cartoonist, Europeans are shaking and Danes are shaking, and Slovenian businessmen, journalists, tourists, contract workers, humanitarian workers and others will shake because of our four volunteers. From now on, we're all exposed as potential victims of kidnapping, murder and extortion. Like I think, 65% of Slovenes do. And it is right that you consider this democratic and majority will of our citizens and citizens as well. It is, however, a bad decision, which, according to the coalition majority, will take place, but progress and an important story is that we are deciding on this matter today and we are discussing it in Parliament, where such important decisions are also in place. This could be different if, of course, the government did not press ahead with this decision, which is not good for Slovenians and Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Erjavec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, President. First of all, I would like to say something about what Mrs Majda Shirca tells me. Apparently, it's about showing up again when there's no argument, and they want to make some statements. And as I can see, you decided to read from Work 11.2. on page 8 [[Am I right?]] where this declaration has been made. The government has ruled that the departure of soldiers to Iraq is in our national interest, and that national interests must be paid with blood or life. At this point, we can't say that she made the wrong decision. This statement, I must tell you, I did not say it, but it was told by Dr. Igor Kotnik, former senior official of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and Dr. And at the same time, here it says, operations like Iraq are the reality of the modern world. Our public should just get used to them. The military is a tool for the defence of national interests. It's too expensive for foreign policy to use it. It's only more expensive if he's using it incorrectly. That's why we need to give the army a chance to prove themselves, according to Dr. Igor Kotnik. The following is his statement that the government has ruled that the departure of soldiers to Iraq is in our national interest. But no, I'm used to it because I'm always some target to be attributed to me. But I would like to strongly deny once again that this is an occupation mission. Those are hard words. I think it's just that you don't understand all the things. Indeed, it would be an occupation mission if what the previous government was talking about were to be realized. Considering that's where Nato is. Clearly, NATO is in crisis zones. I can't imagine NATO being in the Tenerifes. There's nothing to do there unless you go to tourism. It's about women. That's what Mrs. Majda Potter asked me when I was away. Let me say that the percentage of women in the Slovenian Army is 15.3%, which is 1,108 members, and that women are also involved in international operations, namely in Altea, this is an operation of the European Union in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to this, the number is 18 women. In view of the question raised by Mr Matjaž Han, let me say that the Government has taken a decision to send four rotation instructors twice for a period of six months. How it's gonna be in the future, what it's gonna be like in a year, it's hard to talk. It depends on what Nate's recommendations will be, how the situation in Iraq develops. And in the end, the government will have to make a political decision. It can also say that there is no longer any need for Slovenian members to train Iraqis or Iraqi security forces. Mag. Borutu Saiovic - I don't know why you keep talking about the military operation when it comes to NATO-mission for training Iraqi security forces, whose job it would be to establish order and peace for themselves. I don't know who will establish order and peace. You don't agree with international forces. Americans are supposed to not, and then they're not. Then who should establish peace there, if not the Iraqis themselves? This is about training them to do it themselves. Obviously, you're not listening or you're being deceiving yourself. I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u110	Mr Erjavec, I am very sorry because I do not want to waste time on all your statements, but I do have quite something to say about all your other views, especially the original one, which made you a minister at all when you passed the exam in the National Assembly on 30.11.2004 and you are at the hearing of Mr Aurelio Yuri and Mr Anderlich on the question of what you think about the aggression of the United States or occupation of Iraq and how Slovenia will participate in Iraq, said: "I do not see" - quote - "no reason why our army would be present there, etc. ".. Mr Rupel expressed similar views at the hearing session, but also, as I say, I do not have enough time to quote them all. But something is true, the constant arguments, who is the author of original sin, that is, whether we send our army to the most dangerous end of the world, are empty. I think they're demagogos. Turning and pointing your finger to the previous government is simply an answer that your government is no better if you use such arguments. How much better, though, if the people chose her to be better and to have better decisions than before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ma'am, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, thank you for reminding you of the question I have raised. But I am aware that the soldiers are in the Slovenian army. What I have asked is whether the soldiers in these specific circumstances are well taken care of, as we have asked in the Group's opinion, whether all soldiers are well enough taken care of if something happens to them in the mission and then have to bear all the responsibility and care for how they find care and health. That's what this was all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u113	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Respectable assembly, distinguished ministers, respected other representatives of the government. I'm not surprised at your debate today, the respected LDS and SD signatories. Above all, your request to convene today's extraordinary session. At the end of your request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, you claim that the Republic of Slovenia, by such a decision, gives a completely new signal on its international role. I'm sure this statement of yours is entirely true. The current decisions show that Slovenia will now be a credible and credible partner in international relations to stabilise the world situation. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the participation of Slovenian soldiers in peacekeeping and other military activities under the auspices of NATO and the United Nations did not start in December 2004, but earlier. The deployment of four soldiers, volunteers, to Iraq is also due to the activities and conclusions of the previous government. Some ministers who are now bitten by opposition Members, six of whom are former ministers, and act as if they had woken up overnight in a completely different world, which I am not disturbed by. Today's event still reminds me of what happened in 1991. The story repeats itself and some are the same. Even then, the LDS and the predecessor of the current SD presented a declaration of peace to the public. The publication clearly opposed the formation of the Slovenian army. Even then, like today, some of the same individuals were the loudest, if Slovenia does not need a defence, it does not need an army to talk mainly, etc. It is interesting that you require an explanation from the government only on the latest events, decisions and conclusions concerning the deployment of four instructors to the training mission of the security forces in Iraq. By no means are you interested in the previous events and decisions of the previous government, which have been taken in this direction in the past. Unfortunately, we can't go through with this, whether you like it or not. Slovenia has already promised in July 2003 that it will participate in the training of Iraqi security forces. Even more so, in implementing the United Nations Security Council resolution in Iraq, as well as the Danish military forces, it will have the status of occupying force. For decisions in the past, part of the former Slovenian policy is changed, even denying its signatures. All this indicates is that the former government denies even what the documents prove to us. These documents are in front of us, and there's no denying them. The former government adopted a basic decision on Slovenia's participation in training the Iraqi security forces in November 2004. This is particularly interesting and should also be stressed, after the October 2004 elections and the new government has not yet been appointed, the old government should only carry out the most urgent ongoing tasks. This is the case with a great deal of confusion because the current government, with all its responsibility, has only completed a procedure that has already been initiated in the previous term. This shows that the current opposition, the LDS and the SD, is very unstately and extremely unworthy. This government has just completed procedures that have already been initiated in the previous mandate. Therefore, on behalf of the credibility of the international community, this government has taken a decision which is based on the Constitution, laws and international treaties. If I had not done so this year, given the promises made and in view of the decision already taken in November 2004, in the mandate of the previous government to participate in this project, Slovenia would have been a non-governmental partner in participating in international organisations. In previous years, promises were made, written, and signed that if the previous government did not intend to implement these signed documents and did not take them seriously, then it appears in a very strange light as if they were trying to deceive our partners abroad and in the alliance. If it was, as our southern neighbours say, for "overthinking", it is very shameful, and with such "overthinking" Slovenians have never been praised in history. The sending of four instructors does not raise the level of risk, since we have already sent foreign Slovenian soldiers in the past. We are aware that, given the number of soldiers Slovenia has in NATO and the United Nations in its peacekeeping and other military activities, many things can happen, since these soldiers are already over 250. In the case of Iraq, it is a minimal engagement, which is, however, risky, such as the risk of all military activities in crisis areas. Dear colleagues and colleagues from LDS and SD, I ask you who sent the soldiers to Afghanistan. Has this been discussed by the National Assembly at an extraordinary meeting, given that, in my opinion, the mission in Afghanistan is far more dangerous than in Iraq? NATO has supported two thirds of the Slovenians because we have seen their security in this regard. At the same time, we have accepted our international obligations in the efforts of the international community to stabilise the world situation. This request from the LDS and SD signatories for the convening of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly did not surprise me. It surprises me, however, to hear about previous decisions, the transmission of promises made, the documents adopted, written and signed. One wonders how it is possible to deceive himself and the public, and is this the situation when you see that you can't go any further and not back. With the general critique of everything, and everyone and everything but one thing. What a person throws in another’s face with anger is never pure truth. I will certainly not support the proposed conclusions of the signatories to the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are all of the same opinion that no war is a civilized act, that no bullet from any pipe fired anywhere is cultural, not civilized, could be a crime. We can all agree that no war in the history of mankind has brought prosperity and has made no progress, much more a backlog in society. And we can all agree that the war in Iraq can mean exactly the same. My assessment of the war in Iraq is gone. This is also one of the reasons why armies withdraw from this area. Because the time has come for people in this area to learn to defend themselves in the future by terrorism like Hussein. And for this very purpose, our government sends four brave Slovenian soldiers who have decided on a voluntary basis to show with their actions how to defend violence. But today, when I listen to these pitiful debates, in a literal sense, colleagues from Liberal Democracy and the SD, unwitting thoughts escape the independence of Slovenia, at a time when the Februarys of these two parties were warned how bad Slovenia risks if it resists the forces of the Yugoslav National Army, how the Slovenian people will be defeated in the years that followed it, horribly and horribly if they do not remove themselves from the thugs who were then, thank God, defeated. And if we followed those humble and pathetic instructions from these parties, today the Slovenians might not be the Slovenes anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! What I'm listening to, I can honestly tell you that I'm ashamed. I am ashamed to hear from the mouth of the people who, so defined themselves, are the descendants of the partisans, the national heroes, the fighters who drove the German army out of these areas during World War II. Those of you who take such a hell of a bold picture in Dražgoša in the uniforms of gunfighters on your shoulders! And you who warn and fear today, what will happen to Slovenia now because of the four soldiers who go there to teach peace. And where are those heroes who are so happy and so bravely painting in this national assembly with guns behind the belt, they don't hope to say, boys, go, the Slovenian people are a nation of brave men! It is a nation of those who have already resisted, not only the German army, but also the Yugoslav army. Where is that courage now, ladies and gentlemen, or comrades, if you will, which you have inherited from the fighters? What happened to your genes carrying that courage? Where are they? Why today you're scaring the Slovenian nation with terrorism of something - I don't know what, I don't know who to kill - but when you know it won't happen. Why didn't you warn that when the government sent people to Kosovo and Bosnia? Because you said we were almost home. What about Afghanistan? That's when our soldiers went down when Bin Laden was there. From there he led all the pigs of this world, which he has been doing in the last period, and none of you has warned the Slovenian public that we may actually be sicker than we are now. And none of you, Your Honor, ever mentioned that in fact what Robb did when he negotiated with Denmark did the right thing - because he only justified what the Slovenians said at the referendum on the decision on NATO themselves. Yes, Slovenians are so brave that we're not sealers, we don't watch war just on TV, we don't know how to defend ourselves with words and we don't go rounding like children. The robbery started this. And I was proud at the time when the first respected former Prime Minister told the Slovenians and also the world, we are so brave that we decided on NATO that we decided on our responsibilities and responsibilities. Why is this move now? Because he wasn't carried out by the government of Rob, even though she started it. And if we were to talk today about the four brave soldiers, the "soldiers" who go there to teach the "soldites" of another country, we would be brave and proud of that. But since it's not Anton Rope's government, we need to start this circus. I'm personally ashamed. It's a shame, though, that I believed you were descendants of the famous heroes of NOB. I'm proud of the partisans, too. You gentlemen have lost these genes in human development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u117	Mr. Rob, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'm going to give you a shorter replica. Not only because Mr Pavel Rupar spoke here, but also because of what has been said earlier, it may be good to discuss what to discuss in this discussion. Last but not least, the Prime Minister spoke about this. To say that there is no difference between sending troops to Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Macedonia, to Kosovo, to Afghanistan, no difference between these, if you want, locations, between these areas and sending armies to Iraq means that we miss the reasons why we have decided in other cases to send our troops to these areas within the framework of NATO or within the framework of the European Union forces, and we, including Slovenia, also contribute to the level and security of Europe and the world. It's a big difference. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Kosovo, the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian police acted in a manner that ensured peace and stability in projects that we believed were good, appropriate and supported. When we decided on Afghanistan, Slovenia decided to join the anti-terrorist coalition. We were convinced, and I am still convinced today that NATO's intervention in the case of Afghanistan was justified, that it was meaningful, that in that case it was a fight against terrorism. That made sense, and we stood for that decision. Our government, as well as the governments that had decided to do so, felt that sending the Slovenian army to these areas was meaningful because it was a matter of ensuring world security, and because we were convinced that Slovenia must make its contribution. Why didn't we decide to send our army to Iraq? For a simple reason, because we were convinced at the time, because we were confident after this and because we are also convinced today that the intervention in Iraq was pointless, unjustifiable and harmful. It's not just the grades, it's the facts. The consequences of Iraq's intervention are severe. It's 35,000 dead, it's a destabilisation of the region. At that time, the Slovenian Government said that it considered that this intervention was pointless, but understood that there had been a crisis in this area and that it was necessary to cooperate in other ways and in a different way also in the case of Iraq. So it was a significant substantive difference. Last we heard today that Colin Powell, the foreign minister in the Bush administration, also estimated that this case was a mistake and that it did not make sense. If the Slovenian government has decided to send the army to Iraq, then it considers that the intervention in Iraq was justified, meaningful and that Slovenia must therefore participate there. And that's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u119	Replica time's up, Mr. Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u121	Please, Mr. Rupar, what do you want? There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u122	Dear President, I would like to go back to the debate itself, because, of course, there have been so many responses to everything that has happened, and I would like to begin where we have actually heard the Prime Minister first today. His reasons, the principles, the starting point he has outlined, are a clear basis for him to withdraw his decision to send troops to Iraq after all this debate we have heard today. But of course, we could add something else. For example, since the attack on Iraq, it has proved to be based on false, false, orderly data, so that this war and all its consequences are based on lies. In any case, at first there may have been some doubt about it, but now he is gone. Another thing I would like to remind all those who have ever served, at any time, in any army, to remember what it's like to volunteer in the military. You've never been and never will. If there was no kind pressure on volunteers, so-called, it was a different pressure. It's not always a stick, because it's also a carrot, a better salary, a better benefit, I don't know what it's all about, so stick this volunteering around your ear like we ever had to in the Yugoslav People's Army or later in TO. Of course, this export of democracy can be drawn very quickly with some "culture of cregarism" in the 20th century, in 1939, 1945. About how the occupation forces work there today and who they will find to train and how they will train you, you can see every day the videos: beating children, torture, prostitution, drug addiction. All the varieties are transferred down there. The occupation destroys Iraq, destroys the whole world, destroys America, and primarily destroys people. So are we. I believe that those who go down didn't get 1001 night training, but something else. Of course, Slovenia can still decide at this point because everything that has happened since the beginning of the attack, and to this day, as well as what has happened since 12 January and also in Iraq, speaks of something other than the correctness of this decision. If you don't believe me, I hope that you ministers have listened at least to your Members, Mr Sok, Janc, Friday, Petan, Grims, Černač, Mrs Irgle, Bajca, Zicherla, who have given you information that actually speaks in favour of this order or whatever has to be repealed. But if you don't, at least remember this and, say, tonight, watch the film Hair, Strawberry State or, you know, those of you who like something new, David States of America, Mr. Sasha Podgorsk. All of this is very instructive, and so is what tells us about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Minister Rupel, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, this debate will somehow be linked to what has been heard in the previous debate by both the opposition and our coalition members. However, I would like to focus on a fundamental issue. That is, I think it would make sense to give up - each of us, in fact, so that we can give up the old rhetoric. In fact, now that I am reading some of the records, when I remember some of the debates, and once again I am processing this even our debate in my memory, I see that in this debate there is a whole range of some old ingredients, rhetoric from old times. Mr Kumer, in my opinion - I can't explain it any other way - found some old document, some old paper, some old talk there from the '70s or the '80s when he was talking about the relationship to the United States, Americanism, to the American presidents and so on. I feel like I'm back there somewhere in the debates from the point of view of non-classification, even, I would say, from some point of view of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav people's army and so on. I would suggest that this old, sifted and useless rhetoric be abandoned. I would also like to propose this, Mr President, in order to give up the irrational debates. I regret that Mr Mohet is not here with us, who has developed here a historical thesis on the injustices that have occurred in the last 5,000 years to Indians in South America in various wars and so on. In fact, I have to say that his statement that the Holocaust was a small thing really stabbed me. I must say that I have not heard such a statement since the statement made by Iranian President Ahmadinejad, and I must say that I have not heard any response to this rather problematic statement in this House so far. I don't believe that my colleague Moge really meant everything he said, and I believe that this statement somehow escaped him. However, I think we need to be disciplined so that we do not use irrational sources in this debate and that this debate would not be irrational. In short, talking about slavery, about robbing Mexico and the Indians, and so on, about sending four instructors to a military school, that's what I think is really, I have to say, exploiting this institution, this national council, this opportunity that we have. In short, I would suggest, if only possible, that we should be disciplined and united on what conclusions we should adopt. We have a proposal from the Foreign Policy Committee, which I find very rational. It's two conclusions. I propose that we proceed as soon as possible to discuss these two rational conclusions and that we do not waste time and energy on unnecessary discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As you know, I also warned myself that we were sticking to this, the first time we moved from Iraq to Sudan, and then beyond the continents. That is why Mr Dušan Kumer has the word or replica and then the replica of Mr Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I can give you the adrema of the texts of 2004, 2005 among which you will also find the texts of the staff of the foreign ministry who wrote in this regard. But I understand your concern that in the last year, year and a half, you've been involved with other things, with the OSCE presidency, and you haven't been able to keep track of things at home in the country. So it's not a text from the '70s, it's the most up-to-date text, and it's written by people who know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Minister, you probably didn't get me right. I regret what happened in the Holocaust, but what humanity, in particular Europe, did earlier in the conquest marches to subjugate even America, even Australia, that slaves drove from Africa, as many of them killed there, I said that this was about the number of victims that were involved in the Holocaust, the trifle, like what our great-grandfathers and grandfathers were doing. That's what I meant. And it seems to me, I don't share anything with you, except in the past I've shared a client with you and listened to you, but I think you've gone into a completely different flow and our paths can no longer be joined together, and you don't understand the point that I've told you. Today, slavery is considered to be something inhuman, which we all despised, and 200, 300 years ago was considered a political model in which we lived. And I'm saying that when humanity gets ever-new and new weapons, with which one country can destroy the whole world, if it gets it, it's going to have to start acting differently, and it's going to have to solve disputes in a different way, more diplomatically, on other things than wars. That was the point of what I was going to tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about four representatives of the Slovenian army, the so-called instructors who are going to Iraq. That is how some would like this debate to sound. Only four individuals and those individuals are being discussed by the government, the national assembly is being discussed, and that is not important. It doesn't matter to me whether they're four or 40 or 400. It is not very important whether these four volunteers, officers and officers go to Iraq voluntarily. One of the previous speakers spoke about volunteering within the army. I also do not agree with the claim that we have also decided to participate in Iraq by decision on NATO. If we asked people at the referendum at that time if, when we enter NATO, we also go to war in Iraq, the response or message of our voters and voters in the referendum would probably be significantly different from that of whether we are in favour of NATO membership. Where do these four of our volunteers go, and as what? In Iraq, we have an occupier who liberates the Iraqis. These Iraqis don't understand it very well. We have an army in common with liberators, so-called liberators. And we have rebels who do not want freedom at all and are prepared for, in spite of my incomprehensible, incomprehensible actions. And these four of our soldiers will be teaching the Iraqi army how to resist rebels whose lives mean nothing or nothing. I'm afraid the script is next. First, these three instructors go to Iraq, hoping nothing will happen to them, and so do I. At the same time, with this action, we will somehow create a favourable climate for Slovenia's participation in Iraq. The second step is to participate in war operations, as the war will be long and America will also require the victims of others, not just its citizens in Iraq. And that's how we're gonna get to the door of the war if this is the blackest scenario. And I wonder why? So that we'll like Nate's leadership. Today, they used many comparisons of talks, representatives of the former government on participation in the occupation of Iraq, in cooperation with the so-called "voluntary groups". You've been doing a comparison with the work of the current government, but I'm not really interested in this talk, this conversation, this negotiation, in fact. I'm interested in the facts. To this point, no Slovenian soldier has gone to Iraq, whether the Slovenian government or representatives of the government were negotiating what they wanted, including with the Danish government or with anyone. The fact is that we do not have members of the Slovenian Army in Iraq at this time. We'll have them after the new one. And this is not the continuation of the policy of the former government and cannot succeed, to convince us here in Parliament, as well as the public, that it is only a continuation of the policy if we are talking about facts. Many have said that there is no point in discussing the matter in this national assembly because it is already decided. The fact is that it is decided, the government has decided, it would be very naive to expect the decision to change, to cancel it and to make a different decision on the basis of warnings from the opposition and also from civil society in Slovenia. But it is right to talk about it, and it is right that the debate on this is in the National Assembly. And even when some talk about the government having to consult parliament first, consult with the opposition, it would certainly be right for this process to go as many do. And the result, I believe, would be similar to what we have today. I would like to point out that, in my opinion, the decision of the Slovenian government is a major mistake. And when they talk about some of us losing our genes over the past few years, let me just say, the partisans fought on their land for their freedom. The Partisans were not an integral part of the occupying forces.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Given that it is Monday and usually we have a second job on such days, a second job in the constituency, I did not expect to be at this meeting today, because you are planning some things in advance, and yet I have tried to implement them, so I have been among people and with people. I've been with citizens and citizens of our country. When we talked about the responsibilities I have today due to an extraordinary session, I was told that in the country of blacksmiths who cook, that we have seams that sew, that we have doctors who heal, and that we have teachers who teach, and so on. We have also said that they are proud to have professional voluntary soldiers who are not fighting, but who are acting in humanitarian actions around the world, so to speak. They said they were proud of such an army and of such soldiers as bitches who sew, who heal and teach. And to such soldiers, colleagues and colleagues, of course we can be proud of ourselves in our country. Personally, I am convinced that this is a significantly greater contribution to the legitimately elected Iraqi government to send people to help create a country that was barely born after so many years of dictatorship, than to send tanks, bombs, gases and so on. That would kill the people. Now we're sending people to teach their own people how to defend themselves against extremists and militant groups. I am even sure that even more so, the militant and extremist groups that create such conditions when killing their own compatriots will see friends in our country because we want to help in a humanitarian way. Surely no one, both from the Iraqi people and of course from us, wants such beatings as they were, 50 million in about World War II, 300,000 dead in the Balkans, Srebrenica and so on, today 35,000 dead in Iraq. With the policy taken by the Slovenian government to help those who need help, it is a good policy. Finally, I could say that this army of ours working in this area is about one fire company that works voluntarily and works when helping people when people are in distress. This, of course, exposes his own life. That is why I think this decision was humane and humanitarian. I think she was the one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to point out that, even with a very loose interpretation, it is difficult to agree with the view that the government was not obliged to seek prior agreement in the National Assembly in order to be able to decide on the deployment of four military instructors to Iraq. We need to be clear, this is not about a peacekeeping mission. However, given that the National Assembly lays down basic guidelines for the organisation and implementation of defence activities, we would normally expect, and it would also be politically wise for the government to seek this agreement for itself. It therefore consults and seeks to create or reach consensus between parliamentary, political parties for this step. Especially because the matter is politically controversial. As many public opinion polls have shown, most of the citizens and citizens questioned do not explicitly support this step. This step in the deployment of four of our soldiers will make a completely negligible contribution to calming down in Iraq, if at all. In fact, it means an important political gesture. This political gesture shifts Slovenia from its previous position to that of Iraq and moves it from the so-called old Europe to so-called new Europe, after Ramsfeld. The actual purpose of this manoeuvre is political and indirectly means a subsequent apology for the American military intervention in Iraq. And we've obviously agreed to this role. Before the American British forces attacked Iraq, it was not the hotspot of international terrorism, but it became after the attack. The operation of the rebels in Iraq is actually a result of the activities of the occupying forces. They're both responsible in the first place, the Americans. By attracting others, including Slovenian soldiers, they place a political burden on them, for which they themselves are responsible. This is the movement of Slovenia to a holding that is not supported by France, Germany, Spain, Belgium. This new attitude also means, let us be clear, a poor journey towards the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. So far, there has been no clear answer whether it has indeed been possible to participate in the training of Iraqi security forces in a third country. Could it not have been possible to join France, which in its territory and in Jordan is an hour of Iraqi soldiers? Could it not have been possible to engage and cooperate with Germany, which is an Iraqi army in its territory and in the United Arab Emirates? He also organizes courses for officers at Nate's College in Rome and at Ober AMRG in Germany. Apparently, that's why there's no real will in this government. This government has agreed to a miserable role, helping to construct an apology for the aggression against Iraq, which the US government has justified with the justifications that later proved to be unrealistic and misleading. In this regard, more than a recent interview by former Secretary of State Colin Powell was mentioned today. He said it was a stain for him, which still hurts today. And our government today speaks of this stain as the credibility of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And thank you very much to the vice-president so far for leading the session. Mr Franz Žnidaršič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Today, a lot of discussions revolve around whether that Iraqi war was necessary or not. This question is not rational today. There was a war, there was an occupation. And our government's move that it has decided to send four instructors to train Iraqi forces to take responsibility for peace in the country, I understand as helping the occupation pass away as soon as possible and that the war ends - and nothing else. I am also sure that the existing government does not escape responsibility for this decision. And in this sense it certainly cannot and does not intend to put it on anyone, sooner or later. So these findings are meaningless, and in this sense we also agree that this decision was what it was, and we will, as members of this coalition, assume an appropriate part of the responsibility, a proportionate part of the responsibility for this decision - and the end. Dramatization of this is not necessary, we are wasting too much time around it, we can repeat ourselves in our criticism, our consent or disagreement, but the result will be the same, such a decision has fallen, will be implemented, and there is no tragedy. Just as no one bites much if going to Himalaya, where the risk is far greater, it is also a symbolic act and, I would say, for Slovenia in the world, if I may say so, there is a great risk, but there is no panic. Or anywhere else where we have 300, 500 dead in traffic, there's no panic, and now there's one big panic. I don't think anything's gonna happen to anyone, but the military is always a risk, home, abroad, anywhere. We are members of NATO, this part of the risk we have taken, and I understand this as a perfectly normal act that we could not renounce and should, as our obligation or way of contributing to NATO's participation in the forces sooner or later, be realized. We're just at this point and I won't have to later. It's a small number, it's also a political decision and some kind of demonstration act, but we're a small country and we can't send 400. By this contribution, however, we prove that we were serious about joining NATO, and we cannot avoid our contribution at all costs. But there's one other thing I'd like to point out. In fact, asking public opinion about this is irrational and is not done anywhere in the world. Governments decide to do so, and then people will run the elections if they don't. If we ask people if they're for not paying taxes, it'll be 90% for that. If we asked them -- and what's the worst, if we were to defend our country, a mother soldier who was supposed to go to the front with a high probability of falling in this defense would get the mother's answer if she didn't. What is completely understandable and rational to expect, and what is understandable to us, is how we can make a decision. But from the point of view of the state, such questions on the road are inappropriate and do not appear anywhere. That's what they decide at the top. And then, of course, they reap a plus or minus when things are over. That is how we, in our client, see this matter, and therefore we do not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. I will be a little shorter given that we do not have enough time in our Group of Members. I believe that peace for all of us is one value that we all respect, and I believe that peace is what we all want. I don't think that's what women and children in Iraq want. And I am very surprised that you are trying to prevent respected colleagues from LDS and SD from doing your job and that Slovenia will also contribute to ensuring peace in Iraq. Are you perhaps guided by similar reasons as in 1990, when we decided in Slovenia to take over, when some members of your political options objected to Slovenia's independence? If it were not for the brave and all other Slovenians and Slovenians who joined the army, they would also have more than 10,000 dead in Slovenia, as we have witnessed in Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today we have been given the opportunity to listen to a number of untruths by the opposition to send our troops to Iraq, even though we have had the opportunity to hear thousands of times that Slovenia has contributed four instructors to Iraq solely with the task of training Iraqi members of the security forces so that they can provide security in their country. It is true that each mission is exposed to certain risks, as there can be an unfortunate or terrorist attack anywhere in the world, but there is no way to avoid such dangers. Then we should also prevent journalists, then economists, humanitarian workers and others from visiting Iraq. I claim that all these groups are significantly more exposed than our instructors will be in protected areas. It is also interesting that, with regard to the danger of journalists, economists, humanitarian workers in Iraq and in other areas, none of the LDS and SDs are whitening their heads so that your springs do not light their candles before they leave and do not threaten safety with polyvinylating bags. Clearly, this topic is not suitable for the exercise of the demagogies we are witnessing. Finally, let me stress once again that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was rational, that its decision could have been proud of Slovenia, because in this way Slovenia will in fact demonstrate its credibility in the international public and also NATO membership itself and the UN's efforts to stabilise the security situation in Iraq as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Bottler, the replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u140	Dear Mr. Grill, let me make it clear to you that your comparison with today's private session seems to me to be a complete abuse. All LDS members were then voted in favour of Slovenia's independence and, by the way, if we are going into history, let's clear this up for once; look who proposed plebiscite first, and you will find a lot of clarity. And in 1990, when the then ZSMS-liberal party won the first state elections, it won as a third block and with a completely clear programme. So stop this self-absorbing nonsense, because you're ridiculous and pathetic, and you're just proving that you don't have any substantive arguments about sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. And Iraq has no connection with the Slovenian independence, especially that when it came to Slovenian independence, Slovenian independence had a basis in the self-determination of the Slovenian people at the time that it was expressed on the plebiscite. However, the fact that the American army and some foreign armies were in Iraq did not have a basis in the United Nations resolution. This is it, these are facts, all the rest of you are already ridiculous with this independence when you abuse Slovenian independence once to justify reforms, secondly to justify sending the Slovenian army to Iraq. This is a pure abuse of Slovenian independence, what you are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has the word. Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't hear right, I will. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u143	Dr. Gantar, yes, because there's been some kind of exchange.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u144	Mr. Vice President. Of course, the reason why I object to the government's decision is not that sending soldiers to Iraq is a wrong decision, so it is not because it is a dangerous mission. I was already talking about Slovenia's entry into NATO, saying that I do not think that Slovenia, despite its smallness, can hide somewhere, cannot somehow be hidden and hope that global events will not desensitize it, that no one will notice that it will somehow feed these turbulent times and times without having to engage it. Slovenia must participate in solving global problems, given its size and its value, and therefore, of course, Slovenian soldiers have cooperated and participated and will likely participate in missions that are also dangerous. The mission in Afghanistan is dangerous and, of course, it is right to be there, and it is, and it is normal, it is not, but it is normal to be exposed to risks. This is a completely different matter - is such involvement of our soldiers fair and just? Sending people, soldiers to dangerous areas, by force to intervene in the life and regulation of others cannot only be a matter of political tactical thought, but must also be an ethnic question, and whether in this case it is a just reason, for the right thing. Remember, the intervention in Iraq took place on the basis of unfounded accusations that Iraq is transferring weapons of mass destruction. They didn't find out. This intervention is therefore based on lies and deception and is therefore based on lies. This was highlighted by Colin Powell, especially in an interview 14 days ago at the BBC World where he said that this was actually one of his biggest stains, and he said that it had a profound impact on his career and on his self-awareness. Other reasons for Hussein’s support of Al-Qaida are, of course, out of the vine and no longer in use. On the contrary. Hussein’s regime with its fundamentalist policies was absolutely the opposite of Al-Qaeda and Hussein’s regime was Al-Qaeda’s target, but it was something else. The intervention in Iraq caused the remnants of this regime to be linked to Al-Qaida and today Iraq is a source of terrorism, not at the time. So, just the opposite, the intervention caused exactly what it wanted, in what it called a "prevention". So what led this intervention, what righteous thing? We heard the highest representative of the U.S. administration in the speech of the people "adapted to oil", depending on oil. That was the reason. And this is the reason that Slovenia cannot accept as the reason that it is going to Iraq. We have no reason to do that, and we have no right to go to Iraq. And in fact you spoke at the same time - now you're saying now, what I know, Hussein's regime, for which of course it's not worth adding a word, he killed, he performed ethical cleansing. Of course, he did. But as the BBC journalist Powell asked, I can ask you: how many other similar regimes have you attacked? Other dictators, other killers of their own people were lucky they didn't have oil. They even cooperated or cooperated with him! And that's the dirt and the reason why Slovenia shouldn't go in there. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Because it is said that the Slovenian nation voted 46% to join NATO and now you say that because we entered NATO, it is a decision that we have to make. Remember all those, then, of course, this campaign didn't do much good to the point when Joscko Fischer came to Slovenia as a sworn supporter of NATO and vowed counter-interventions in Iran, and when he said when you set foot in NATO, that doesn't mean you have to go to Iraq. And the same was said by Secretary-General Nate, Robertson, and this has strongly reversed the opinion of the Slovenians. And that was the reason that they were so strong, I'd say, supported the entry into NATO, and it's right that they supported it. There's one more thing I'd like to say. You're reading anti-Americanism. Agreeing or disagreement with individual measures of a particular US administration has nothing to do with anti-Americanism. We must not bind our relationship to the United States and we cannot bind ourselves to this, not to that American administration or to its specific move. Let's see, otherwise today 60% of American citizens could be declared anti-Americans. To this I tell you that you actually have no reason to justify this, except for one reason, and this is non-government, to serve the interests of other countries and other interests and to neglect the interests of your own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate has made a statement to the debate, perhaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members. I've been listening carefully all afternoon, and it seems to me that somehow we don't know how to separate two things. One thing is the coalition forces that started the war in Iraq, and the other is the training of soldiers, Iraqi soldiers within one base, under the auspices of NATO, with the support of the United Nations resolution. There is a lot of talk here about the state-of-the-art government, about the facts that are important, about the fact that we will train an army that serves and cooperates with the so-called occupying forces, but should point out another fact. In 2003, the Slovenian state decided without NATO, without having to force NATO to participate in the training of police officers, Iraqi police officers, in fact, in the territory of a third country, but Slovenian police officers from 1.2.2004 further train Iraqi police officers, not far from the Iraqi border. By now, over 30,000 police officers have been trained. Most of these gentlemen, who have been trained by our officers, including our officers in this centre, are daily involved or involved in terrorist attacks that individual groups are presenting to police stations. The opposition and the current government did not oppose such sending of Slovenian police officers to train Iraqi police officers who would be able to establish and maintain order and peace in their country. This is why last year the government extended the duration of this mission. The initial duration was one year, further extended, so that Slovenian police officers will continue to train Iraqi police officers for the purposes of maintaining order and peace within their country. And the same purpose is to send four Slovenian military instructors to Iraq, where they will train Iraqi police officers, not train coalition forces, not to participate in combat actions, not to cooperate in ensuring order and peace within Iraq, but to train Iraqi soldiers, to be able to act alone within their own country, and to contribute to ensuring that both Iraqi police and Iraqi military forces are trained to maintain order and peace on their own territory and that such forces as have been called here today, acting in dispute in this territory. And these are the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. However, I would like to remind representatives of the government that next time they should precisely check who is in charge of performing or not, because, strictly speaking, Mr Mate, you should not speak. But since it's going to be the government's time together, you'll probably fix it later. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit, I am a little disappointed in today's debate. We raise such questions as to rightly ask ourselves whether we are even mature enough to have a country of our own. The question is whether we are in favour of helping Iraq to defend itself at last. We're acting like an ostrich who's pushing his head to the sand and waiting for the front to pass. We have decided to join the EU and also NATO. We all know and do not want to recall once again what a great consensus was reached when this was adopted. Today we are working on a tragedy when, within this EU community, we send four professionals, I stress professionals, to this crisis area with the aim of training and ensuring order and peace in their area. We need to understand that the people who signed up to participate in the military have also registered the risks that this service poses. Just as it brings to a mailman who carries money, the risk of paydays for someone to rob him, it also entails the risk of being actively involved in the war, so that you will also be influenced by some crisis events. And these gentlemen have already come to terms with it. I claim that today we are talking or speaking in this House that it is practically a political race against the government, against the ministries that decide to send an army to mislead the public, causing unrest between people and harm to the citizen and the state. Please, let us be aware that this is not a discussion of anything, but that people, the public are monitoring this matter, in their own way, but it is not good to dramatise things for which there is absolutely no need. The government has decided to do so. It has taken full responsibility and let, if not before, in 2008, when the elections, the final voters say, we agree on this, or we do not agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. You still have a good minute, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I'll try to tell you as soon as I can. So, being part of international organisations does not only bring prestige with it and be important among the important, but also responsibility. We expect Slovenia to receive security in the event of a threat. It is therefore to be expected - and of course we have committed ourselves to entering certain international institutions - that we want such a defence when we need it. A good decade ago, such a situation was also in Slovenia, and during the period of independence we expected the help of the greater and stronger and then gratefully turned to all those countries that offered their help. That is why this must be a reminder, not an excuse for inaction, that we try to help people who suffer oppression and may be in a situation similar to ours. Being globally responsible does not mean traveling as a tourist across European and other capitals, but means supporting regulation [[...]] [[End warning sign]] with responsibility. Perhaps only this: I hope that we will never need such help again, but we may need similar help again, and who will then be our ally if we want to escape today [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u151	Unfortunately, the technique was ruthless. The word has magic. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! My assessment is that it is good that we have held this debate today in the National Assembly to show the arguments of both sides regarding the decision of the government. I would like to stress in particular that I am convinced that Slovenia has made a good decision when it decided, through the referendums in 2003, to check its long-term political objectives, two of the most important objectives, that is to join the European Union and NATO. It was a decision for development and security, and I am sure there are very few in this national assembly who think otherwise. However, I am also sure that the good decision in Slovenia was when we decided that Slovenia would be the only new member of NATO, of the seven members, to be among those who did not send their troops to Iraq that did not send them. She did not send them mainly because of what I was talking about earlier because she felt that she did not apologize for the attack on Iraq because there was no evidence that what was happening there was happening, and the time showed that it was the right decision at the time. I fear that time will show that this decision made by the Slovenian government now is bad, that it is not good and will have negative consequences. It is good that today we have listened to the Prime Minister, who here talked about arguments, important arguments, which are the basis for the Slovenian government, that he and all actors have decided on this step. It's three sets of arguments. The first argument, which I think is absolutely not true, is that the reason for this decision is the obligation arising from the fact that we have entered into NATO. I am sure that today's discussion has clearly shown that joining NATO is not the reason why we decided to send an army to Iraq. Nor is the problem of the Prime Minister - I have already talked about this today - that Bosnia and Herzegovina is, that Kosovo is, that Afghanistan and Iraq are, that this is all the same, and that it is therefore perfectly normal for us to send an army to Iraq as well. There is a fundamental difference, there is a substantive difference and it is the right thing to talk about and today we have heard the position of this government in relation to the aggression against Iraq. The second argument cited was that one of the important foundations of the debate in Istanbul and the conclusions in Istanbul. That's not true. Istanbul was a compromise between those countries which considered that entry and entry into Iraq was justified and those who felt that it was not justified. And Slovenia also went with these. The third argument we heard today was that the security forces, the Iraqi security forces, should train themselves at home. Today, we have heard quite a few arguments about where and how some other countries are training security forces and not in Iraq, but we have heard nothing about what, what and when the Government's efforts to join these countries have been. Well, very few true arguments. Today we wanted to hear what are the key reasons for sending Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. We heard them. They're pretty weak. Why Slovenia is in the last year, probably the only country in the world that has decided to send an army to Iraq. I don't know, I wonder if any other country has made a new decision in the last year, decided to send an army to Iraq, but quite a number of countries have decided to reduce the number of troops and soldiers in Iraq. Instead of answering the question we heard quite a lot of excuses, instead of the arguments we heard the accusations, instead of talking about the situation of Slovenia, after the government took this decision, we heard about the past. That's too bad. It's a shame we haven't had any more substantive discussions. So the deployment of the Slovenian army to Iraq is undoubtedly an important political decision. With today's meeting, this referral is also part of the decision of the National Assembly, after the decisions taken here today will be taken, you will undoubtedly take your part in the responsibility, and you will also take over all members of the coalition who will vote in favour of this decision. So together you will be responsible for this decision of the government. I stress once again that there is no such decision and there can be no reason or reason for membership in relation to then the policy of the former government. It is simply your own decision, it is your responsibility, it is a decision that is unnecessary, which is bad, and I hope for the good of Slovenia that it will end without damaging consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In the meantime, let me just say, Mr Minister, we have been given the retroactive mandate of Minister Matei to act, so that we have also rectified this matter. Dr. Rupel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Members! In one of her performances, the flower of Zalokar Orazem said that it was possible or proved that it was possible to lead a controversy against a policy, including poetry or some special choice of poetry, satirical poetry, cartoons, so to speak. Of course, I will not comment on the content, but I must say that the method is not good. Emotional and ideological debate on very pragmatic, practical, including political topics, politicization in this way is not the best emotional, ideological, biased, party cheering in relation to serious topics when it comes to such a serious decision - last but not least, we all agree that it is a serious decision - probably not appropriate. Comrade Gantar also went into his discussion when he spoke about propaganda or the gathering of views for a campaign for NATO or against NATO. He even made some assumption that I had heard for the first time, which I must say is incredible, because Fischer and Robertson gave a public opinion, i.e. a public opinion on the Slovenian public's fondness for NATO membership. This debate, even though it has gone in the wrong direction, seems to me to be misleading and leading us elsewhere as it should be, is in some way an intervention in the past and so on. But since I remember this debate or this issue well, I must say a firm word. At the time, I was an external minister and, I must say, I had a major problem in the government led by my colleague, Rob, in which my colleague Gantar was also cheering for NATO, or in obtaining positive views about Slovenia's NATO membership. I must say that without consulting my colleagues at that time, I was able to reach out to Slovenia at the time when Fischer and Robertson visited, and that in some way they helped to generate a positive public opinion on Nate. That is true, but most of all, that he won with such a convincing majority because the government had connected with the opposition. Remember, at that time, we set up a committee for NATO, in which government representatives and representatives of the opposition participated. And when the Slovenian public found that it was in fact an important political matter, both the government and the opposition, then, of course, the matter turned around; not because one or the other statesman came to visit, but because the Slovenians had proved to the world that they knew about certain foreign strategic matters to decide together. So they can step together so they can agree to know, in short, speak with one voice. So, I think it is good to speak as uniformly as possible and to reach agreement in external matters and in matters of strategic decision-making and when our discussions are also heard by the foreign. I do not deny the need and the positive effect of criticism, but I think that confrontation or party cheering, when it comes to foreign policy topics and foreign policy matters, is depressed or wrong. I also think that Mr Lahovnik's treatise on plebiscite and self-reliance, on who proposed plebiscite, who was involved in self-reliance, what was the logic of that party, which was then called the ZSMS, is to say, for the freedom of the thinking world, and so on. These debates may be interesting, although I must say that I wonder where Mr Lahovnik, who was not present at the time, had such knowledge; he must have read a manual for young activists. Well, I must say that the tract on plebiscite and self-containment also does nothing, does not in any way help us reach a rational conclusion on foreign policy or, if you want, a defence topic that is on the table today. I think the controversy with the United States of America, as well as the controversy with the invasion of Iraq, do not serve anything. We're not talking about the relationship to America or the relationship to Bush, nor the aggression of the United States of America, if you like, or the role of the coalition in Iraq, but we're talking about the NATO mission. Then it's the organization we're members of. Whether anyone likes it or not, gentlemen, we're members of then! We're falling into Western civilization. Do not be afraid of Western civilization, do not be afraid of what has accumulated in European culture for the past two thousand years! Why would they deny it? Why on behalf of, I don't know, some global humanism would now reject what we have grown up to, and what modern Slovenia is, after all, everyone. The liberal tradition and conservative tradition in Slovenian political life, however, rests on these two thousand-year-old roots that begin there in Christianity, which continue in humanism, Renaissance, enlightenment, etc. Why speak against this civilization, for God's sake, when we can't even sneeze without this civilization? I must say that I regret that the opposition has decided to break the fundamental rule of political morality in democracy. In fact, foreign policy and defence must be spoken of with one voice, criticism is desirable, as I said, but not party cheering, but deception, not pauperism, but depressed talk about matters that have nothing to do with the topic that we are talking about today. Why talk about the American vision of Iraq, why talk about being a NATO member? We are talking about how, as members of NATO, we send four instructors to a military school so that, after the elections of December, the Iraqis will be able to decide their own defences for themselves. That's how I feel about this debate, and I apologize if, I would say, I am speaking a little louder than I am used to, but this debate is really not taking us anywhere, and I only hope that we will insist on those two points proposed by the Foreign Policy Committee, and that, finally, we will end up with this less useful debate today than a useful one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Two MPs joined the replica, Dr. Gantar, and then Dr. Lakhovnik. Please, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u156	Thank you. Very fast. The Foreign Minister has begun to tell us, especially the LDS, that they are not pragmatic, but he has ended up, what I know, with a hopeless ideological sermon, I don't know if he listened to himself, to listen. As far as I'm concerned. I mean, it's a little strange -- these evaluations, which, suddenly, Mr. Foreign Minister is judging us: I've walked off the road, etc., for the first time hears and similar things. Yes, sir, here we will commend the Foreign Minister, he invited Fischer, Joschk Fischer to Slovenia, this was a very good move, because Fischer was exactly and a symbol, I would say, opposed to the U.S. military engagement in the "voluntary coalition" in Iraq and, of course, advocate of NATO. This is important, decisively, in my view, has influenced, among other things, that this public opinion has been turned. Of course, I know that he has engaged himself, as many of us have in this, as I do, in defending our entry into NATO and into NATO, despite his engagement and advocacy, not because of his engagement and advocacy. Why is it important that it is true today - because we cheated or cheated on a number of voters because today, if we entered NATO, we have to go to Iraq; then we said that if we entered NATO, it was an individual decision and it had nothing to do with Iraq. And that's what we are today, that's what you broke today. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. And Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much! Dear Mr. Foreign Minister, do not falsify words! I responded as a replica of the implementation of the MP from the party who appointed you proposed to be the Foreign Minister. I said that when this government ran out of arguments, as in the case of reforms, when we reacted critically, they said they needed to be supported. Just as it was during the period of independence, and it is compared to independence, and it is the same today. When you have run out of arguments about why you should go to Iraq, and obviously our arguments are why this is bad for Slovenia, why this is bad for citizens and citizens of this country, when you are running out of arguments, start again with independence. I agree, it has nothing to do with you and you just confirmed my argument. But please, because I see that today - I think that the second or third time you go personally to my youth, although I find this flattering, I also admit that there is not as much political experience as you have, my respect, you are a living example that Darwin's theory holds that they do not survive either the smartest, nor the most powerful, but the most flexible. From this point of view, you are an example to many young people, not mine; you know what political conviction is, but we can discuss it. I have to say, I'm not that experienced, but I know where someone was and what someone was defending. You're the only person I'm confused with. In your case, things are as discolored as your tie, black - and - red. Please don't take this personally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Please, please, let's avoid personal comments and try to stay on the subject of today's debate. And to my word, I invite Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, although a little late, I wanted to greet the viewers on the third channel of TV Slovenia first. Of course it's not, we know, even though you've promised so much that we'll look at it live and how fair it will be when all the viewers are able to make an impression on who's saying what. This transfer of the first extraordinary session requested by the opposition - if I know it - is not in this mandate either on the second programme or on the first, although it could be. Of course, when we were expecting a big sports event, we were watching Mass. Now that we can watch Parliament, we are watching a sporting event. We're making progress. I understand why this is so. This is for the purpose of causing as little damage to the public as possible by the deployment of soldiers by the Government to Iraq. It's just a topic where the government is losing out in public. I think the government has also prepared a carefully planned scenario. The government knew that the public was against directions, so it prepared itself for that. Now, while the foreign minister tells us to be united in foreign policy, in defence, the government has not asked any questions here at the parliamentary level, the opposition, we could propose a closed session and we could talk, but the government has done nothing. She made her own decision, and now she says let's be united, but before that, she didn't ask anyone anything. Like I said, she planned it carefully. Because she knew that the reactions would be: whether she comes to Parliament and starts to think or just walk away, she prepared a scenario. This is about ugly manipulation, we have to say. When the news broke out, first of all, it was the decision of the Prime Minister, who sent the foreign minister to the press conference - now going to the crane more or less - that the opposition was expected to jump up, and so was, also the public. They found some documents of how the previous government was talking, even praising the previous government as planned, and Minister Rupel even thanked the former president and so on. The contentious thing is that, with such ease, the Minister of Defence, who would primarily be obliged to take care of confidential documents, withdraws his confidentiality for purely political manipulation. Of course, they carefully sought out a document where Slovenia's involvement in Iraq was most important and discussed. Of course, the former government talked about it, and it was right for her to talk. She also discussed other matters, but she was principled and did not make that decision. This decision has been taken by this government. And when this news came, it began to talk first of all about whether the previous government really wanted to send because the code of confidentiality had been withdrawn from the document, who was right, Rob or Erjavec and so on. That's logic, if I said in a parable, it's not the guy who stole the chicken, but it's the ones who talked about what would happen if they stole the chicken. This is the logic that has now been launched to minimise this negative response in the public of this contested decision. Of course, the most controversial point is that it is so easy to withdraw the degree of confidentiality and this is by the most competent authorities. What would it be like for the rest of us to do so, or for the rest of us to do so by trying to compromise a political competitor? When Iraq is compared to the other countries where the Slovenian Army is engaged, it must be said that this is a significant difference. In all other cases, it is either the agreement of the wider international community, the United Nations, or NATO. In this case, however, it was the aggression of Bush and Blair's administrations in Iraq, which are now successfully involving other countries. And it's not just the countries of Nate, it's not just the other countries. It is true, however, that some important NATO countries are not engaged. The only explanation is solidarity, our international obligations and so on. We simply do not believe this, we cannot believe it, and we expected the government to give us the right reasons for sending these four soldiers to Iraq. We certainly did not get the answers and the requirement that this move was too hasty, unwise and certainly useless for the Slovenian state.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The Replica is owned by Minister Erjavec. At the same time, let me say that there is also a comprehensive list of all Members and Members, which means that the government can also have the last word before we go to the debate and vote on the amendments. Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u162	I would like to thank Ambassador Tarchoon for his performance in reading that he was supposed to steal a chicken. Let me say that the government has acted very transparently. The government has made a proposal to send four instructors to Iraq and at the same time has proposed a decision to withdraw the confidentiality mark in order to make the public aware. With regard to the confidentiality marks that I withdrew, let me say that I withdrew them to show that someone else stole the chicken, who said that there was never, ever, anywhere to talk about travelling Slovenian soldiers within the framework of a coalition of forces to the south of Iraq. As a result, it took three days to withdraw this code of confidentiality and it was not about any international correspondence, but it was about correspondence between the Minister of Defence and the current and current Prime Ministers. And this withdrawal of the confidentiality mark was not made in order for the Minister of Defence to seek arguments for the government's decisions. It is clear here that the government is behind this decision. We have said that Slovenia is the only new member that does not contribute to the training of the Iraqi security forces, that the decision of the previous government on the trip to third countries cannot be realized and that we have therefore sought other options. One option was to conduct this training in Slovenia, but security assessments have shown that this means a higher level of risk. That is why we have not decided on such a solution. That is why we have decided on the decision taken by most of the new members concerning NATO. And this is to train Iraqi security forces in Iraq. That is why I withdrew the code of confidentiality to show who is the one who is stealing the chicken and who are not known to the Slovenian public for their purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u163	The replica has a mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Of course, I don't want to discuss who stole anything because it's not about that. It is not about stealing something, but it is an important political decision and the way this discussion is conducted is bad and it does not say anything about the arguments why you decided to do so. Besides, I never used that word. Now I will read that once and for all it will be clear. Our meeting at POP said: "Mr. Rop, how do you respond to the perceptions of the largest government party that you have already agreed in 2004 on the participation of Slovenian soldiers in the Danish contingent?" So, for the first time, I never agreed on this, nor did the government ever take this decision, and I said, "Never and never has the government made such a decision." And, of course, it's childish that the Minister of Defence said below that I was negotiating, I wasn't negotiating, I said that I was talking, and I was negotiating a mission of police units that was supposed to be a mission of the whole of the European Union. There is this record, but it doesn't matter if I've talked about it, even if I've agreed to it, we've never made this decision, and this decision is the decision of this government. It doesn't help if you're talking to the previous government. If you want, I accept all the political responsibility for asking me, when the Presidents of governments from all over Europe from all the countries that have deployed their army to Iraq, if they would have sent me their army to Iraq. Yeah, of course I've been talking to them-- yeah, what am I supposed to say? Not to talk about it, especially if I wanted our economy to participate in the reconstruction of Iraq? Well, that's not even the point. It is the legitimate decision of this government, for which it must take political responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Kovacich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, would you like to ask what reasons have led you to make an exception and allow a replica into a replica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u167	Mr. Kovacic, that wasn't a replica of the replica. As I understand it, in his debate, Mr Minister also mentioned the things in Mr Rope's debate. Please, who's in charge now, you or me? Mr Bajc, another such comment, and I will have you removed from the hall. Yeah, that's right. I'm closing the debate. The deadline for the amendment has expired and we are moving on to a decision. Mr. Erjavec, would you like another word? Yes, I'd like you to report in good time for the second time. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u168	Thank you, President. Thank you for your word. Yes, I note that the debate in the National Assembly was useful, so that the public could become even more aware of the arguments for the Government's decision to send four instructors to Iraq. Regrettably, however, Members who wanted an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly did not provide any argument as to why the government's decision should be unnecessary, reckless, dangerous, except of course for the reasons of the intimidation of the Slovenians and the Slovenians. No country participating in this NATO mission has been targeted by a terrorist attack due to training of Iraqi security forces. The assessment of the threat of terrorism in Slovenia has not changed by sending instructors to Iraq. The risk assessment remains the same. Our arguments for sending instructors to Iraq are, however, that the United Nations has called on its members to help stabilise Iraq. The call is covered by a Security Council resolution. He then decided at the Istanbul summit to provide assistance in the form of training of the Iraqi security forces, as well as assistance in equipment and financial means. Here Slovenia was very constructive in this second part; it had a grant of 5.2 million; it had 100,000 Euros for a fund to finance this training. It helped to co-finance the transport of Hungarian tanks through Slovenian territory. And let me say, while our NATO membership does not oblige us to send instructors to Iraq, it does oblige us to participate in this mission within NATO. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Would you please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u169	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u170	As I have said, we are bound by solidarity within NATO members to participate in this mission. If members of NATO deny responsibilities or responsibilities to NATO, the question arises as to the meaning of the existence of such a relationship as well as the meaning of our membership in NATO. It is a matter of partnership within NATO, the question is whether members of NATO combine the same values as the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The question is, what if no one did anything in Iraq - what would happen to Iraq? Should the Iraqis continue to suffer under Saddam Hussein's dictatorship? Last but not least, we are united by threats, terrorism, the use of means of mass destruction. Your Honor! The debate has shown that some do not know the role of NATO in the modern world, which has exceeded the period of the Cold War. Today, NATO is a political organisation that wants to ensure global peace. It is no coincidence that Russia also participates in each meeting of the defence and liaison ministers, which notes that we are united by the same values and regrettably the same threats. To say that the mission is then an occupation mission is without foundation. How can the mission then be an occupation mission if it is covered by four resolutions of the United Nations Security Council? To say that the right decision is that Slovenia, as the only new member, does not cooperate with NATO in training the Iraqi security forces, is unrealistic and shows, in my opinion, that some who have taken the decision to join NATO have not taken seriously. The Committee on Foreign Policy today had a re-examination of the Government's decision to deploy four instructors to Iraq. This debate also showed that those who wanted an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly did not present any argument as to why the government's decision was inappropriate, reckless, bad, dangerous. I therefore support the two proposed decisions of the Committee on Foreign Policy that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia note that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to send four instructors to Iraq has been adopted in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the legislation in force. I also support the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall inform the National Assembly of the activities and experiences of Slovenian soldiers after three months after the appointment of four instructors. In doing so, I invite those who would like when the time comes for me to fulfill my promise as Minister of Defence to visit all the places where we have our members, that those of the opposition who still doubt the decision to join me then, to see for themselves what is happening there, what our instructors are doing and what role Slovenia is playing in this. I'm sure when you're on your face
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u171	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u172	cities, as I was present in Afghanistan, where even President Hamid Karzai thanked Slovenia as a small country to contribute to the stability of Afghanistan to contribute to global peace. [[...]] And that's why it's about that. That is why I am very grateful to you today that you have convened this extraordinary meeting so that our citizens can convince themselves of the great mission led by the Slovenian Army. And I hope you are proud of all the members of the Slovenian army who keep and defend our peace far from our borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u173	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Please. You don't have a word on the stand. Sir, I ask you to respect our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if not, I will have to have you removed from the Tribunal. I'm asking you to sit down and continue to follow the session peacefully, that's the rules. You can't talk to the tribunal. Please, guards, get these gentlemen out of here. We're moving on to the Lord's decision, please. [[...]] We are not in the yard, but we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please remove the gentlemen from the rostrum. We continue to discuss the amendments tabled. I'm sorry this unloved event happened, but that's what's happening. We have two amendments on the proposal of two Foreign Policy Committee conclusions. The amendments were tabled by the LDS Parliamentary Club and by the SD parliamentary group. I ask the applicants if they would like to present a decision, so that, of course, we have only, if I am not mistaken, a good minute for the LDS or I am putting both amendments to the debate. Who wants to discuss the amendment for a new third proposal? Yes, Mr. Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In my own name. Dear colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u175	No, no, Mr Barovic, you still have time to discuss, so that is not yet an explanation for the vote. Can you discuss according to? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u176	Well, given the rationality, and I hope that it will be brief, clear and fickle, as well as our colleagues, we are all tired this month of encounters. See, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Slovenian National Party has already presented its views today. As far as the amendments are concerned, you know, just as I listened to the distinguished Minister, the Slovenian National Party said it would support in the majority after the decision the proposals made as a reference to this meeting. There are seven, if I'm not mistaken, of which the first six are very important. The first six proposals point to the fact that it is right not only for Iraq, but in general for defence policy to be referred to the deployment of a professional army, which is a professional army whose profession it is to fight and decide, but we will speak a few words in this national assembly. I would like to point out that the first six points are very important. I would personally support the amendment to the third draft of the decision, but the last debate told me that Slovenian soldiers are not only in Iraq, once again, although this is the content of today's meeting, Slovenian soldiers are in Afghanistan, Slovenian soldiers are in Kosovo, Slovenian soldiers are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I fear that this extraordinary session today is not a fear or a clarification of our understanding and view of the Slovenian army, but an internal political struggle of two or three or four, I do not care, options, which is not fair. In my name, I say that I will abstain from both amendments, once again, because the content of these amendments should touch all Slovenian soldiers everywhere. Once again, I stress, remember, the professional army was created on the initiative of this national assembly, including people who said "yes" to Nate, and today is the profession of military warfare. If they decide themselves, they'll go and do it. However, once again, I say that we respect at least the basic provisions of the six points that we have been discussing all day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment for a new third proposal for a decision. First, I ask if anyone would like to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Dr. Bottler on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Members! Our amendment proposes that the Government withdraw the decision to instruct the National Assembly to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to revoke the decision to send four instructors of the Slovenian army to Iraq. This is justified by the following. First time. No resolution of the United Nations or any other similar document of Slovenia undertakes to be militaryly present in Iraq. This is the sovereign decision of the Janša government, which, in our view, has decided to do so for the very wrong reasons. Another time. The fact is that the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq has never been decided or informed by the National Security Council. We have not discussed this before in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, although this is an extremely important decision. This is a decision which means a great deal not only in defence but also in Slovenian foreign policy. We must be aware that there are no important members of the European Union in Iraq, such as France, Germany, that Spain has withdrawn from Iraq, and that this is clearly moving away from there in the spring. In short, no arguments were put forward as to why this diversion is now in Slovenian foreign policy as well. As far as the security situation is concerned, it has not been fully presented. The arguments were simply submitted that the security situation did not change in Slovenia due to the presence of Slovenian soldiers in Iraq. Nevertheless, we can read in the media that for safety reasons, the names of instructors remain secret. We can understand this, however - it shows that everything is not so dangerous or if the lives of family members of instructors and instructors can also be endangered when the names are published, then it means that the security situation in Slovenia has changed. The fact that this issue has been dealt with extremely easily also indicates that the issue of the security situation was explained by the head of the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence on the Foreign Policy Committee, not by the chairman of the Sova, as would normally be. Such an approach is not only weak, but in terms of the safety of citizens and citizens, it is extremely easy to think, so we propose in the amendment that the National Assembly should call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to weigh this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The word is given by Master Grimes on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Of course, we will not support such an amendment in the SDS. There are several reasons for this. The first is the issue of the obligations we have towards the international community. There has been a lot of talk about this today, but it has been silenced that we have made this clear since the referendum on the entry into NATO, when we said that common defence is a common obligation, a common obligation which, of course, also binds us, and that we accept this obligation consciously and in agreement. Now it's up to us to make this happen. Secondly, what convinces us is the fact that the opponents have not presented any actual new arguments at all and have, in fact, been concealing their lack of arguments almost the entire debate with very offensive statements. You know, when I said something about what I heard in my own ears on the committee this morning, one of the LDS members said that it was a gross lie, if I'm not mistaken, that I should be forgiven if I use his term, which would be appropriate to a gentleman, but certainly not to a member of the National Assembly. I hope that when we have a debate on respect for each other again in LSD, they will even blur a little from their threshold. At the same time, I would also point out the inappropriate comparison, the comparison with the Holocaust, which was also given by one of the LDS Members, and we cannot get rid of the impression that everything that has happened today and also many other things, works only for the purpose of obtaining cheap political points, but at the same time goes beyond the limit, when it is also doing harm to our common homeland of Slovenia, and this right, according to our firm conviction, is really none of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u182	Thank you. For the third time, we have proposed that, with the support of this amendment, the Government's decision to send troops be withdrawn. Mr Defence Minister said he did not hear today, within seven hours, the real arguments why the government's decision should be poor. I have also listened attentively, and I can say that even on behalf of our Group of Members and all the applicants, we have not heard any arguments as to why the decision would be a good one. The public will assess who was right. Certainly not all the reasons and all the circumstances that led to this have been clarified. We have neither heard nor heard, except for the general statements, that we must be credible and credible as to the benefits of this mission. At least when he supported the mission, the President of the Republic said he expected United States support for the Darfur mission. Let's let it be controversial and how much, but he was talking about some benefit. I haven't heard from the government today. The government did not gain consensus because it did not seek it either, by the political opposition and also by the public. The decision she's made is dangerous. It's irresponsible. We send four of our people, who will be in Slovenian uniform, with the Slovenian flag, to the very hot point of crisis, which will mean a lot. In this way, "we wave" to international terrorism, we warn that we are on this stage, and the consequences can be severe. From this title, we urge the government to reconsider and withdraw before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sok on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. On behalf of New Slovenia, I can tell you that we spoke a lot here today and said nothing new. All that has been heard today has already been heard by the Slovenian public. Maybe all that's new is what the Minister of the Interior said we've been training Iraqi cops for a long time, and no one's stumbled on it. As far as this amendment is concerned, it is clear that we will not support it in New Slovenia. We don't think the opposition LDS and SD were serious about this amendment. This amendment, however, says that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should withdraw its decision. The Government has taken its decision on the basis of the law in force, the law adopted in the previous term. The National Assembly did not discuss either when we sent our soldiers to Kosovo or when we sent them to Afghanistan. Suddenly, when the previous position took place in the opposition, everything was different. However, it is necessary to amend the law and prevent the Government from making decisions under the law for which it has legal basis in the law. Such a decision would, of course, be irresponsible, such a decision would be unrealistic, virtually embarrassing the Republic of Slovenia not only before Europe, but before the whole world, and especially before NATO, in which we entered and became members through the referendum with such determination. So we're not going to support this or the amendment to conclusion number four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. On my behalf, I would like to explain the voice of Mr Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u186	Thank you. I would like to remind my colleagues, of course in support of this amendment, that I have also challenged our cooperation in training the Iraqi security forces with the police. But the police, unfortunately, are also under the command of the United States of America to train security forces in a third country, specifically Jordan. And from this title we can draw the line that this is part of the consensus and compromise that has been reached. What are the reasons for the decision to be withdrawn by the government today? Since its adoption, the Palestinian issue, the Iranian nuclear issue, and, last but not least, the turmoil in the Islamic world as a result of disputed caricatures, have soared to this day. The security situation in Iraq is still very tense, very tense, people die daily, and I think the government has all the reasons, practical and pragmatic, to freeze if it can't cancel the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister and others! Of course I'll support the amendment. Even before the final speech of Minister Erjavac was prepared and read, I was not convinced that the government had any rational reason to send these four instructors to Iraq. I don't think he has any arguments, either, but he doesn't want to betray them. What are the motives? There's gonna be a lot more to see and hear. We do know, however, that such a measure cannot be justified before the Slovenian public. The reference to Afghanistan you like to refer to is extremely incorrect. America was attacked. Although the Americans did not refer to Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty, some countries, such as Germany, considered it Article 5 and engaged on the American side in Afghanistan. This has been done by many other Member States of NATO and Slovenia. Therefore, it is right that our soldiers are there to carry out their business and, of course, put at risk. That is why, Mr Minister, and I hereby justify my reason - we are proud of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers, but we cannot be proud of the creators of Slovenian security, foreign and defence policy, and we hope that these soldiers, soldiers, will be at the wrong place, at the wrong time and for the wrong reasons that they will not actually take too much risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The government's decision to deploy four Slovenian military instructors to the NATO Iraqi security forces training mission in Iraq stems from the very resolution of the United Nations Organization, where Slovenia has been in court for many years, and also comes from a decision of NATO, where Slovenia has been a member for some time. I do not understand how some Members and some political parties can defend calls for Slovenia not to respect international commitments and not its own commitments, which it has accepted. How can you even talk like that? Do you not give anything to honor and that the word means something? The promise also requires the fulfillment of a promise. But how would the Slovenians feel if other countries, especially those that have supported Slovenia and helped us in our efforts to conquer it, gave up our help 15 years ago? When it was difficult for us and the political fate of Slovenia and the fate of the people of Slovenia was uncertain and threatened? What would we think of such an uninitiated state? You don't care. What, though, can others think of us because of such unkindness and selfishness when we do not hear the cry for help when others need it? And let us not respond to this selfishness, that is, to such selfishness and non-cooperation you call on Members here in the National Assembly. It would certainly not matter to me that others would view us as selfish and unworthy people who do not care about others and who are not holy to us in our own promises and commitments. I would be ashamed of that, so of course I cannot support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment in the context of what I have already said in previous discussions. But I would like to say again, because of what I have said in the context of what I have said, that if anyone has been harmed by the mention of the Holocaust in my speech, I sincerely apologize. The exception was from the context, and I mentioned the Holocaust only as one of the precedents in human behavior that should never have occurred. I say that the Holocaust was not the only thing when some nations or civilizations were wiped out of the face of the earth, but that there were more of them and that, as a result, this will never happen again, I did not want conflicts to be resolved in the third millennium with weapons. I myself had a very good knowledge of Jewish history, or I knew their matrix in the Middle Ages. What happened in II. World War II in Maribor, I preserved the only synagogue as Vice-President of the executive world, because they thought to turn it into a cafe to stay, and now this is the first-class monument of these synagogues in Europe. There's only a few left. I was in Jerusalem, I bowed down to the victims of those who lost their lives in the Holocaust, and I ask that you no longer give me these labels today. You didn't get me right. I mentioned this only in this context, that before the Holocaust there were other killings of civilizations and nations. And these conditions are not worthy of man. And as long as I live, I will avoid such a way of resolving political conflicts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. You used the black explanation of your voice for the replica. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment. Today, no further argument was put forward by the applicants, which would have led to any justification for such a decision. Slovenia must fulfil its commitments, its obligations and it is also right to help the Iraqi people to become able to maintain order and peace in their country for the benefit of Europe and the world. In doing so, I marvel at the inadequacy or even denial of what the previous government has done in this area. The government's decision has a long beard, and I'm actually wondering what my colleague Tone Rop was talking about in Denmark. Did he go to Denmark to say to the Danish Prime Minister from Hamlet, "Something rotten is in the country of Denmark." I think he'd be more credible, and only then would he be credible if he said, "There's something rotten in the LDS client." Because that's what you proved today. And gluttony, cynicism and transfiguration are the highest values you've represented here today from the LDS and Social Democracy. To wonder if baptisms from Iraq will be promotional material for Slovenia, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u195	Mr Jerovšek, this is not a controversy, this is an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u196	debates and intrusiveness in this House. [[...]] That's why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I ask you again, not to replicate, not to politicize, but to explain. It's Mr. Gulic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u198	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will vote for this amendment. This is probably also clear in view of the previous debate. However, I would like to add some ground to the matter, because there was something else that happened after we discussed it. Mr Minister said there were no new arguments. I totally agree with that. It would be unusual for new arguments to appear at the last minute. All the arguments were old. The most arguments for supporting the decision proposed in the amendment are the discussions of the coalition, the ruling coalitions. I will not say that they were willing to be argued as arguments to support the amendment, but they were credible data, there were debates that were aimed at preserving life, at humanity, at freedom. All of this would not have been done there by our instructors in the ranks of forces who came there because this war had already been fabricated from the very beginning. Lying and based on the lies of the United States intelligence services that served the wishes of their President. That's why I don't give a damn about this security information, what if it's made up for the wishes of some presidents. The main reason I would like to repeat this is that there was a debate on anti-Americanism. My decision will, of course, be what it will be, especially because America is as much my love as any other country. And [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] My attitude towards America is not, of course, tied to the current government, as is not my attitude towards Slovenia linked to the current government. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the amendment, and I will tell you why. Many times more will have to be said that some will understand that it was easy to enter NATO by electing people and that when we entered NATO, life is such that you give on one side and on the other hand you get it. And then it gives us collective security, and it's only right that we contribute something to Nate back. Now that it's Iraq, those four instructors going to Iraq are double volunteers. For the first time because they voluntarily chose a soldier who is dangerous, and for the second time because they are once again volunteers. The fact is, they're going to Iraq as instructors and they're going to educate Iraqi soldiers to consolidate democracy in Iraq. Nor should we care whether the situation in Iraq is stable or not. I think we must be very committed to the situation in Iraq as well, and that is why I will, once again, go against the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As I said in the introduction, when I represented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, and a similar proposal for a decision was already in the drafting of the drafters, as well as colleagues, we will not support this amendment to the conclusions. Today, we heard everything from a small group of advocates, one when they were talking, one when they were talking, one when they were talking, and the other. We have heard much more about what has not been the subject of the government's agenda or how it has decided to send four soldiers or officers and officers to Iraq. Personally, I think it is right that this extraordinary meeting has taken place, that regardless of the scepticism that I have also expressed on the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's position, it is likely that, even after a seven-and-a-half debate, the positions and opposition will remain the same as they were at the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly. Finally, in view of this, as I have said in my presentation of the SLS position, the government has not violated the Constitution, the government has not violated the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it adopted this decision, and as a result I still stand in the position that it has legitimately and legally adopted a decision on the posting; but I would like to stress that I am personally convinced and aware of the information, I think that, most of you will agree that the safety of the soldiers who are going on the mission to Iraq is significantly better and greater than the soldiers who are on the mission to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. And Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Members! The Prime Minister, Mr Janša, has made a public statement on television that Slovenia is the only NATO member not participating in stability activities in Iraq or in training Iraqi military security forces. And in this way he also justified the decision of the Slovenian Government to send Slovenian soldiers to Iraq. Today's debate has shown that this is not true that the ten members of NATO who are not present in Iraq and that, obviously, Mr Janša has had the wrong information, that they have misinformed him and informed him of both the foreign minister and the defence minister, I will, as a constructive opposition, support the amendment that we are allowing him, the whole government, the correctional test, so that she can reconsider the decision she has obviously taken on the basis of the wrong assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u205	Thank you. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 70 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the amendment to the new third proposal for a decision is not adopted. We will now decide on the amendment for a new fourth proposal for a decision and put it to the debate. Does anyone want a word, or is there no more time, who wants to explain his voice? Given that there is only one other party or two time to debate and no one wants to debate, I conclude the debate and ask who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I have two applications so far, namely Mr Jerovsk and Mr Yuri. Please, Mr Jerovšek. You're giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u206	He was just a friend of Yuri's first. See, I must say that in the SDS Group we are not in fact opposed to such a decision, but in today's debate in this and in the actions of previous governments, of course, we will not support this decision because this decision implicitly suggests that the government, which has continued the procedures of the previous governments, has acted and decided in accordance with the applicable legislation and constitution, has done something wrong. Such a proposal for such an amendment is based on a double morality of proposers and duality. When they were in the position of government parties and were responsible for that country, they did not inform on similar referrals or when they did not notify the national assembly. Moreover, the Constitutional Court found, in an explanation of a decision, that the decision on the provision of airspace for flights, when Slovenia was not yet a member of NATO, was illegal and that it was a violation of the legislation and the Constitution of Slovenia. As I have already mentioned today, we did not at that time have a problem, nor would we be troubled today if we did not face double morals and double morality has made Europe very bad. The worst things were based on double morals, so, of course, I think it is necessary to give up this dual morality. And to see what you didn't do yourself, that you didn't build a positive practice, a positive diameter. If this were built today, of course it would be different. In such a constellation, of course, we cannot support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Juri has the floor on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. President. It is because we need a new, good practice that we are putting this decision into practice to avoid the new situations we are experiencing today and have experienced it since the public was informed of the Government's decision to send four soldiers. When it comes, of course, to important operations in crisis areas requiring our military cooperation, I think we need to create and find a broader consensus. We cannot only take decisions on the basis of a government decision, but, however well-founded by the law, of course, we can make such important decisions and we can also make judgmental decisions. We therefore propose that the National Security Council meet and that the National Assembly be informed in advance. From this title we also propose that the Government consider whether the existing law needs to be corrected. For if we have come to this situation in which four soldiers will travel without political consensus and without public understanding, which will certainly affect their feelings and also their security, we need to improve the system so that these situations do not happen again. Therefore, gentlemen, if you are in good faith, of course, and if you believe that such an approach would contribute to public awareness, that opposition parties will also be forced, in your opinion, to greater responsibility, of course this consensus will be sought. But if you refuse to do so, it means that you trust blindly in the government's decisions, that you think it's right that it can send a larger contingent tomorrow, which is of course on the battlefield, and that you are the only one who assumes responsibility, but you discharge the responsibility of the entire national assembly and other institutions that have to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u210	When we look closely at this amendment's proposal, it is clear that it is simply a substitute for something that would be logical to go on and on every issue. If it is true that Sova is the authority that is preparing security assessments on what is supposed to be happening in the wider environment, i.e. in the international space, then it would be right if Mr Prime Minister, as the STA writes today, Janša Podbregaru does not allow a return visit to Khartoum, means that it is a serious security problem environment. And, of course, he won't even let Chief Owl go there, let alone check if the situation is such that the Slovenian President can intervene there. Even more so, when we are talking about Iraq and Slovenia's participation as a country in these processes, it is clear that we must take all the circumstances into account. And one of these is certainly a security assessment that we have not really heard from Owl in this House. And if I understand what the National Security Council understands correctly, then it means that in this world for national security before any decisions are made, they will check what it has to say from a security point of view - I speak both for the international environment and for the situation of Slovenia within this - just the security and intelligence service. Clearly, there is the belief that it is enough for us to seek out old ways, so that the military and military services can tell what this is all about, the civil sector and the civil dimension are not important here. I think it's wrong. And as was understood today by the Members of the Slovak Parliament, as was understood last week by the President of the Swedish Parliament - so all of these have been on a visit to the Slovenian Parliament in the last few days - it does not happen that these issues, therefore the issues that we are discussing today, would not be discussed by Parliament. You don't even want the National Security Council to meet [[End warning sign]] to inform Members of their conclusions. This is something that means the fundamental denial of the right of Members elected by the people to decide for themselves [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u211	Time's up, I'm afraid. Well, we're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the amendment to the new fourth proposal for a decision is not adopted. Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the complementary proposal for a decision on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the NATO Security Forces Training Mission in Iraq, as proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is one proposal, one decision consisting of two parts, so I am giving it in full for an opportunity to explain or formally ask again: who, of course, from that parliamentary group that still has time to discuss this proposal? Yes, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Procedural question. The material we received. Question is, I'm gonna ask him. The material for the extraordinary session we received is: "Proposals of decisions to be taken at the meeting of the National Assembly..." - so the material we received requires a reference, and then there are seven proposals, once again, I repeat: "Proposals of decisions to be taken at the meeting of the National Assembly." In my opinion, I'm going to say a lot of stem logic, which means we're going to consider the proposals for the conclusions of the seven points that are given into this material. I suddenly find out that we are going to talk and decide on two complementary proposals for decisions regarding the decision of the foreign policy committee's government, if I am not wrong to say that this has all come to the table today. And now, can you please explain to me in a procedural manner why it is in the material of the Proposal for Decisions for a Meeting of the National Assembly if we are to decide on something entirely different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u213	Thank you so much for asking. It's the next procedure. The proposer proposed seven decisions to be decided on today. These decisions were discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and were not adopted by decisions, but adopted two new decisions. Therefore, according to my logic, the title of these two decisions should be called Amended and amended proposal for conclusions and so on, but the expert services have informed me that this is a business dictatorship, so that we decide on these two proposals or on one proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which consists of two parts. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In yours?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will vote in favour of the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u215	Mr. Stabe, can you wait another time for me to give you my word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u216	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u217	Mr. Stabe, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will vote in favour of the proposals of the Foreign Policy Committee's decisions because I believe that the current government is actually continuing, credible and concrete, with specific directions to Iraq what the previous government has been negotiating. This credibility and global presence, regardless of what challenges and possible circumstances there are for such a mission, will enable the country of Slovenia and its economy, as well as other structures, to acquire important transactions later. The former Prime Minister, Mr Rop, cited the possibility of economic cooperation as one of the main reasons. Establishing direct contact with locals, residents, in this case with the security forces that our volunteers, instructors will train, hope in a professional and competent way, will bring us not only credibility in Iraq, but also in the international community. The State of Iraq is in a transitional state with a transitional government and a transitional parliament, and it is now most important to create the right conditions for the establishment of true democracy and I wish the Iraqi government or citizens success in this truly unique attempt to introduce democracy into the Islamic, Arab country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain my vote against the first and second decisions, because I understand that you have put both decisions to the vote together. In short, the first conclusion is that the government has made the right decision. We spoke all day, not just us, but more than 60% of Slovenes and Slovenes, the same thing that the government was wrong when it decided to do so. I will vote against it not only because the legitimacy may be right, but because the decision says that in accordance with the foreign policy guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia - now what are these guidelines? Or those guidelines that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was talking about when he became Minister in 2004, when he passed the "hearing" exam, said that the new coalition had no intention to change its position so far regarding the Slovenian contribution to the resolution of the Iraqi crisis or the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq and that Slovenia was mainly right to remain outside the coalition and to see no reason to change that. In short, what position and what foreign policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia are we now following? If these have changed, I cannot support such a decision, and I will oppose it and also take a copy of the vote for the memory of the print.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, but you only have 2 minutes, because we are now in individual decision-making or explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Social Democrats are convinced that the government's decision to send the Slovenian army to Iraq was inappropriate, unnecessary and risky. We are dissatisfied and concerned about the government's will to act because, in such an important decision, which represents a significant departure from politics to the Iraqi war, it did not consult the opposition or inform the national assembly, let alone consult and at least try to reach a political consensus on this decision. We believe that national consensus should be reached on decisions affecting national security. This is how the Slovenian Armed Forces will go to Iraq with the burden of political unanimity and without the support of public opinion. It is not good that this decision has not been discussed by the National Security Council and has been adopted so quickly and recklessly. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia could join the stabilisation of the situation in Iraq in a different way and not directly by directing the Slovenian army to a country where military and war situations with elements of civil war reign. According to the latest affair of British soldiers, we saw on television yesterday how Iraqi civilians are being beaten, or according to the conduct of American soldiers in Abu Graib, Slovenian security training instructors would need to be in a different country than in Iraq. At the conclusion of today's debate, however, I ask you, dear fellows and colleagues, if anyone knows where the third parliamentary programme of national television has gone? I thank the honest finder very much in advance and ask him to deliver it against the symbolic award on, Kolodvorska No. 2-4. We will therefore vote in the Social Democrats Group against the first decision of the government coalition, because we believe that this decision is not in line with the foreign policy direction of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Let me reiterate that we are voting on this proposal in its entirety; it is not divided into two different works. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was going to divide my thinking into two parts and it was originally conceived that we would vote on the conclusions separately. In this case, if it were separate, the second decision would be supported. Now, of course, I must say that I will not support the proposal for conclusions for the following reasons. Right now, it seems hopeless to think any way of not wanting these four people without a name and a last name to go to Iraq. At this point, we can only wish them a happy journey and, above all, a happy return. Three months from now, we may find out how they feel, then we will forget this meeting of the assembly and the conclusions we voted on. Unless this is our wish, I think it's true to all of us, after one year, it won't come true for anything to go wrong. This meeting and conclusions will then be extremely important, especially for those who will not be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u226	Your Honor! The decision is written in two parts. I will not support this proposal; the first is because it speaks of the current foreign policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia, which I think are now a major change. It's a different relationship. But I'm not going to support the other because it's written in a way that's a security challenge. It says here that: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the National Assembly of the activities and experiences of Slovenian soldiers and of any special security challenges after three months of deployment." What's that? I don't know. Is that some new code, rookie? If anyone could explain it, then it would be possible to make a positive decision, but I don't think they'll have the chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u227	Mr. Barovich, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u228	I'm making a procedural proposal. In the light of the experience in advance, I think that for a month or a month, with a working body in this national assembly, which is subject to the same rules or regulations, we could vote on a single decree, which was entirely, on each element or on each point within that decree. I therefore propose, given the fact that I am listening to what others are saying, that we should make a procedural decision on each point of the amended proposal for a decision concerning the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the NATO Security Forces Training Mission in Iraq, in particular. So about the conclusion under point one separately and the conclusion under point two separately.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u229	Thank you very much. If we applied the Rules of Procedure in a meaningful manner, we would, of course, make a full decision, because this is one proposal, as if, for example, we were deciding on another act. But I don't see anything wrong if we take this decision. To shorten the procedure, I ask, does anyone object to such a decision? So you're opposed to the conclusion? [[...]] Then I put this proposal to the vote. We are voting on Mr Barovic's proposal to decide on the proposal separately, i.e. point 1 of the proposal and point 2 of the proposal separately. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 65 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that Mr Barovic's proposal has been adopted. But this does not mean that we cannot or will not make the matter more clear, we are now continuing to explain our votes only as regards the first decision. Anyone else want to explain the decision on the first one? Mag. Grims, then Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u230	Thank you. Look, I will vote in favour of the proposed decision. With regard to the rhetorical issue that we have heard so many times about policy change today, there is obviously another misunderstanding here, and if it is the last one, let me explain it. It is with these conclusions and with this action today and with what the government has decided, but we are pursuing the policy that the former government has negotiated. True, thank God, the current government has found the opportunity to implement it in a less problematic way by cooperating with the newly democratically elected government and within the framework of the NATO mission, and it is not a matter of occupation forces, but we are pursuing the policy that the previous government has already negotiated. And be proud of this, however, to be proud of your contribution, which you once made, which eventually also enabled Slovenia to become more involved in the international world and its integration into NATO. Now it's only about the fulfillment of words, that is, consistency in the actions that you've already drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this first proposal for a decision for two reasons. The first is that no competent body in the National Assembly has carried out a procedure to determine whether the actual decision of the Government is in accordance with the applicable legislation. Although the government referred several times to section 84 of the Defence Act, section 84 of the Defence Act refers to peacekeeping missions. There's no talk of a peacekeeping mission here. This procedure of finding that this was actually carried out by the applicable legislation has not been found. The other reason, of course, is that it is also not in line with the foreign policy guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia, because these guidelines have apparently changed overnight. That's why I won't support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u234	I won't back this decision either. I've been on the Foreign Policy Committee for years. Of course, I can tell the new members who have joined this committee, with all the authority, that this is an important change in the foreign policy direction of the Republic of Slovenia. We have determined them from within this committee. In the previous government, in which the Social Democrats also participated, we talked about this a lot. And, of course, in the Social Democratic Union that you have formed this government, you would never agree to the decisions that the government is making today. So it's a new direction that you've decided on, on the government and in the coalition. Of course, this title does not refer to the continuation of the government's previous policy, so I will not be able to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Dr. Laharnik, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I will not support this decision alone for two reasons. I do not agree that the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq is in line with the foreign policy directions of the Republic of Slovenia. Second thing. I am also in serious doubt whether it is in accordance with the applicable legislation. I kind of had fewer doubts here today, I've got more today. That's what I'm basing it on. I found that on the Foreign Policy Committee in Slovenia, the head of the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence explained the security situation. As far as I understand the legislation, this security situation was to be explained by the chairman of the Owl. I think that the procedure at this stage has been seriously violated and that, from this point of view, all the measures resulting from this are also problematic. So I cannot support this decision in both respects, because I think, for the first time, that it does not comply with the current foreign policy guidelines of the Republic of Slovenia, and for the second time, because I think it is also controversial from the point of view of the legislation in force. However, these comments were not answered at all in the debate today, particularly as regards the role of President Sova, who was not at all in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I have to make my point now, and I have to say, I'm really amazed and I'm finally having a misunderstanding. See, the first decision states that "the National Assembly finds that the government's decision to send soldiers" and so on, "is adopted in accordance with the applicable legislation." A little while ago, a respected colleague said that this was not possible because, according to, I don't know, one of the 80 members is not a peace mission. But when I read the magnetogram of 24 February 2004, I will read again the quote of Mr Jelko Kacin, who quoted literally Dorian Marshic as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The text reads: "Dorian Marsic said that the Atlantic Alliance did not participate in the attack on Iraq and also in the post-war reconstruction of Iraq was not directly involved." Now I really don't know who Dorian Marshich was to who, you know, was our respected colleague in the previous term. Now I don't understand, I'm sorry, and how should I, my colleagues, anyone in this national council now make a fair decision? And how, not least, can someone ask me, as a Member, whether or not he's giving me an opinion as to whether something has been adopted in accordance with the law. I'm such a farce, I'm sorry, I speak for myself, I've never seen one in my life.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u240	The whole thing's kind of weird. It's more than obvious that you've tampered with the purpose of this extraordinary session. That you are simply from the material that has been submitted, reasoned and proposed were also conclusions, which would mean that this is an act that we are discussing, you have made two decisions that are so mutually exclusive. It goes according to the principle of root and thumb, thumb and root: "That's right, we've decided, that's right." That's the first decision. The second conclusion says, "Well, you will be a little informed, because you are representatives of the people and you insist on something, you tend to be right to be informed about these things." Please, this isn't going together. The refusal of Parliament to be informed that it is involved in the formulation of State foreign policy if you want is something that is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the definitions that this country has adopted in recent years. And it is fundamentally contrary to the mission of Members. Members, Members of Parliament, we receive daily questions, people turn around, and after all, we represent, according to some belief of voters and electorates, second in all, we, by some third belief. And this belief suggests that we should find out in the National Assembly whether the situation is such that it is necessary to change the policy in this area and send soldiers to war. You don't want this, and that's why these two conclusions can't be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Bajc's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! However, I have made sure that the decision of the Government which it has adopted is legal and I will read to you the third paragraph of Article 84 of the Government Act, which was published in the Official Journal of 1994, which says Mrs Beblereva, all the time I was silent when you spoke, even though you were "twittering" in between. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u243	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u244	The government shall decide on the participation of the Slovenian military in the implementation of the obligations assumed in international organisations and shall adopt annual training plans for the military outside the country and foreign military units in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with international treaties. [[...]] The Government shall also decide on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the preparation and tasks of joint defence in accordance with plans with the State or countries with which the State is an Allied State under international treaties.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Please let the debate continue outside this hall. It's Mr. Friday's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll back these conclusions. But there's something I'd like to explain. The closed meeting of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission was also attended by representatives of the SOVE who explained the whole situation, were also representatives of the Military Security and Intelligence Service and a colleague of Anderlič, who was also present at the debate. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u247	Please, what would it be like to explain your voice? This applies to everyone, not just Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u248	He heard and finally declared that he felt safe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u249	Thank you very much. It is also good to know how to vote in explanation of vote. And Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. I will also support the two amendments myself, and I am particularly pleased that the situation in Iraq is so mature that we will be able to send only instructors there, i.e. people who will deal more or less with theoretical work, exercise. I am pleased that it will not be necessary, as promised by the previous government, to promise the leaders of operatives who could also be hit by battles and who would be much more at risk. The security situation certainly has not changed significantly, and one reason I can see why the names of these four instructors are being hidden, especially because families will have peace at home, not before Al-Qaeda, not against terrorists, but from some overheated peacekeepers, as we have here today for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u251	We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 70 Members and Members present, 45 for the first decision and 24 for the first decision. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 24.]] Which means the first decision is not adopted. Excuse me. I'm sorry, it's been accepted. We're deciding on a different decision. Who would like to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u252	This second conclusion is so "something" and, in fact, quite hypocritical, if not even double-faced, because another decision commands the government to come and report on how they feel about what the soldiers are doing in Iraq. How they feel, the National Assembly will be informed of whether they can go there or not, and the National Assembly does not decide and is not aware of this, unless it makes any kind of session. The dictatorship of the so-called security challenges is, of course, quite pharsic, because we know that it is not a security challenge, but a threat. I will abstain in this decision and in this vote, because the fact that soldiers will write a diary and report on their feelings in the National Assembly seems to me, as it were said, double-faced that the post festivals in the National Assembly are familiar with something that we should decide before they even go there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Barovic
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u254	Thank you very much. In my own name, colleagues and colleagues, I once again claim that today I was all the time at this time, if I was accidentally absent from this place physically, I was in the office listening to the discussions, being misled. The debate has continued, and I still say very, very much, that it has been useful, active around the proposals of the 7 articles that we have received in the basic material. We talked about all the points. No one has rightly and specifically warned us that we are only talking about two articles of the amended proposal and that we should pay attention to these two articles of the amended proposal, because these are the only two articles we can talk about. Nobody. And even if we look at them as they are, it doesn't make sense for us to sit here. If the conclusion of the competent committee that the government has acted on the basis of the legislation in force is likely to be confirmed by our legislative services, which are always present at the meetings of the parent working body, please tell me the meaning of today's sitting, debate and contention. Once again, it doesn't make any sense, and then all of you, you know what it is. And once again, I emphasize what I have already said today, all those who said yes at the time will, of course, lay down for each victim who will, his account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the decision, but more than the government informs the National Assembly, it is important how the government will ensure that these boys who have decided as professionals who know what they are doing, arrive safely, do their job safely and return home. This is more important than having us repeat this scenario in the National Assembly today. These guys and this country will have nothing but expenses. But I do know that any government would be today, even if it were a mag. Robbing the Prime Minister, no matter what kind of government he may have set up, would not have been able to carry her out like that government, but it doesn't matter which government it was. The situation and circumstances are such, and so each government should act, not that we are looking for hot water here and making out of these four boys a subject for gaining our own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u258	Thank you, Chairman. I will support the decision, even though I personally do not see the need for these four soldiers to inform us daily how they are doing. Not particularly because Minister Erjavec is the first minister of all those who not only wanted to, but also hoped to visit all our missions in areas where our soldiers are and congratulated. I'm sure he'll be brave enough to go see for himself in Iraq with our soldiers. Here I would call on the bravest of this national assembly - Aurelia Yuri, Mr Lahovnik and others to join this visit. Although you're personally very, very difficult to imagine one bottler in a helmet, but, anyway, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u259	Mr Rupar, please, such comments are not part of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u260	Allow me to express myself my willingness to visit the soldiers when the time is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u261	You know what's coming next. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word, and we're back there. Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u262	No, I won't replicate, don't worry. When I read this conclusion, I have a problem. In fact, for the first time, it is not explicit enough here to read that after three months of sending members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to Iraq, the National Assembly informs about the activities and experiences of Slovenian soldiers, no more of which soldiers and where, and any special security challenges. It is not even clear below what security challenges are at stake, nor where. In short, whether it is the situation in Iraq, whether it is a threat to these soldiers, whether it is a security situation in Slovenia, or whether it is the situation of Slovenian citizens abroad who may be exposed to international terrorism. In short, there are some words that have been written very vaguely, so it is not clear to me what we really want with this conclusion. But the fact is that I think it is self-evident and I think it is also a practice and the rules of this house are that the chairman of the Slovenian intelligence and security agency would inform the National Security Council about the security situation, also because of the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Iraq or, if you want, mainly because of this in the last period, but this has not happened. I think that this conclusion, for the first time, is completely unclear and is essentially more about some sort of artistic impression that we are now trying to explain somehow the meaning of some departure, czech, because something will be communicated to the national assembly, although it has not been notified when the government could still change its decision, and, of course, such a decision is pointless and unnecessary and I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support this conclusion for one simple reason, because I don't think it's necessary. For the time being, this National Assembly is not yet the information centre of the government, but it is a legislative body in which decisions are taken. And today we have heard that the government has made a sovereign, political, legal decision. Of course, I didn't agree, and I also said that in my performance, even though the minister said it was retrograde in the '70s when some of them graduated in America. But of course, the legitimacy of this national council does not need to make such decisions. That is why I and the first and second conclusions seem completely pointless, and I will not support this either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is that we are speaking and voting on the soldiers who are going to Iraq. I don't know what he's doing in this national council. The second fact is that there are professionals going there. And professionals write reports, they have to write reports, because each professional soldier is also an informant for his own country. That's how it works in the army. And it is wise not to publish their names, not only cleverly, it is according to military doctrine, which some do not know because they did not serve the army and then they cannot know certain things. With regard to information, it should be noted that in the National Assembly we have a committee for the control of intelligence services, which is kept informed of the security situation. And if the security situation were compromised, be assured that the Commission would communicate this to the National Assembly and have a closed session to discuss the matter. Therefore, I think that many things have been said from a completely unprofessional point of view and because of ignorance. I'll back this decision myself. And if we are able to go to Iraq, I am going with the greatest joy to see what the difference is between then and today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri and then Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u268	I have already pointed out on the Committee on Foreign Policy that this decision has already been adopted by the Committee itself at its previous meeting. From this address, I did not see the need for him to be present at the national assembly today. For the information will rumble on the competent working bodies, on the Committee on Foreign Policy and on the Committee on Defence, and after three months we will not all be burdened with information. So I don't know if it's useful to support this decision. It is certainly beneficial to know what will happen in these three months, what the situation is, and also in the hope that we may not be forced to learn more sooner. Or not forcing our four soldiers to find out that something unloving is going on with us. So it's certainly not harmful if we support this decision. The information is useful, and therefore we did not understand on the Foreign Policy Committee, where the five proposals for the conclusions we proposed did not receive support; they only helped us to get a greater sense of what was behind the government's decision. So I will personally support this decision. But I say, even if it is not supported, there is already a decision of the Foreign Policy Committee calling on the government to inform the Committee of the situation on the ground after three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u269	Thank you. Vice President Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. The decision before us, like the previous decision, no longer follows the course of the debate that took place today in the afternoon. Regrettably, the National Assembly has decided not to discuss and decide on the foreign policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia as a separate branch of government. The same National Assembly also decided to waive its authority over the military missions of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems, however, that he will be given the power to speak or to highlight the activities of the soldiers of the Republic of Slovenia who are sent abroad. I share the predecessor's opinion that this is not harmful, of course. However, I estimate that it would be much wiser if the National Assembly took or retained the powers conferred on it by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the autonomous branch of power. And that the National Assembly in our country should perform the function for which it is also called upon by the Constitution, that is, to decide on important matters, but not to distribute exclusively how individual tasks have been done, not what these tasks will be. I will abstain from voting on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u271	Thank you very much. And Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! I myself will support this proposal for a decision. Among other things, I'd like to say this. On the day of the memory of the Holocaust of the Jewish people and of all the victims of concentration camps, Mayor Premoli of the Valley recently said: In the destruction camps, millions of people were dying "and so on. [[...]] Our soldiers are leaving this time, I believe, for one humanitarian mission. I'm glad we're going to put one stone in the mosaic of world peace with this work. In fact, we can say that both defence ministers, both former and present, have led a very smart, tactical policy to what our military is doing around here. Although it is a professional army and even if it could go to war, it leaves exclusively for humanitarian tasks, where it helps nations to avoid such holocausts as they were. And in this case, this is the sending of our four soldiers, where, as I stated earlier in the debate, they will work where they will sew, heal and teach the exhausted Iraqi nation. Make this their work as easy as possible and as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-13-SDZ4-Izredna-17.ana.u273	Thank you. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the second decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish you all a pleasant evening. Thank you.
