ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. We begin with the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to take their seats. Once again, I ask Members and Members to occupy their seats so that we can begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, as we say, we are starting a meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have been informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Franz Capuder since 1300 hours, Ambassador Ferri Horvat, Ambassador Aloise Posedel, Ambassador Maria Possonec and Ambassador Bogomir Zamernik. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on economic societies. I hereby inform you that it is a prudent time for a general debate of 3 hours and 35 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional explanation, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! The Law on Economic Companies, which you have today on the table, has already submitted to the National Assembly in October for consideration and we are pleased to see that this is the first time that the National Assembly, after eight novelties, has considered and discussed its matter for the first time and, through a general debate in November, a public presentation of opinions in January and a final debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs in February, adopted an updated and better proposal for a law. We have also heard many times in the National Assembly that the Law on Economic Companies is a very important law because it represents some kind of constitution of an economy that regulates the basis for its operation. It is therefore even more important to pay greater attention to such systemic laws, and certainly to one key material law. In this regard, the National Assembly has carried out a very constructive exercise, both by voting a public debate on opinions held on 26.1.2006 and by examining the Committee on 15.2. as well as by other cooperation with the competent services of the National Assembly. The proposer took seriously the comments and proposals put forward by Members, stakeholders and the public concerned. We have given particular attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which gives a very high-quality, legal and legal reflection of their view of the company law and which, in the background, highlights in particular the shortcomings in the adoption of previous amendments to the company law. The thoroughness of the joint work also represented a large number of amendments formulated and adopted within the Committee on the Economy, and we believe that with them we have achieved even better consistency and legal system-wide harmonisation of the law, which more specifically, consistently and qualitatively sets out the purpose of its provisions. A particular emphasis was placed on resolving the participation of workers in a single management system, and the proposal came up with a compromise proposal, supported by stakeholders, which was very positive in the context of the public presentation of opinions and outside of it. All the provisions in this regard are laid down among the transitional provisions so as to bring them into line with a series of amendments to the groups of Members. However, we would like to point out once again that the purpose of the relocation is not to completely delete these provisions, but rather to clearly state the nature of the temporaryity of their regulation under the GDD-1, pending the adoption of appropriate amendments to the law governing the participation of workers in management. At the time of the adoption of the ZGD-1, together with the representatives of the economy, we have also reached an appropriate solution regarding the application of the balance sheet provisions for companies and entrepreneurs for 2006. We certainly believe that the complementary proposal of the GAG-1 is a very good-quality marriage proposal, even though it does not contain all the observations and suggestions of the participating parties. We have already presented and reasoned on the reasons for this. We will probably repeat some today, but I hope that today, with your help, this material will also be constructive and effective and that users of the law will be able to benefit from the benefits and benefits of its solutions as soon as possible in the economic environment. Once again, we stress that ZGD-1 is the result of the work of a very wide range of participants, which we would also like to thank at this point. The development of a successful competitive regulatory environment is, however, a key focus of the proposer, but the ZGD-1 proves that we can only be the most successful together. For these reasons, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you for a brief, complementary explanation of the bill. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Willy Rezman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The material, which was extremely extensive, has more than 700 articles, has been sent by the government, and an economic committee has been selected for the work of the mother. It is also not only extensive, but also very complex and related to important applications in other sectoral legislation. This is what we have always had in mind in our debates. The Committee held a hearing after the general discussion had been held, and a public presentation of the opinions was subsequently carried out. It must be said, however, that we had about 30 materials available in writing, giving us an important professional weight or an opportunity for in-depth discussions. There were also 20 amendments of individual Members and parliamentary parties. It should be noted, however, that the work of our legislative and legal service, which in fact resulted in some 130 amendments, which were later proposed as amendments to the Committee, has also been adopted after most of them. The legislative and legal service has proposed, presented a number of opinions and concerns, some of them of a general nature, and some of them of a separate section of the company law. At the hearing they attended, I suppose I can say, all those who were most invited to do so, in particular representatives of the economy, as well as representatives of the associations of workers and trade unions. In the introduction, the applicant provided some additional explanations to the 7th sets covered by this company law, and perhaps the debate showed that the most important components concerning the European shareholder society concerned with the issue of the introduction of the euro and the nomination of basic inputs or capital and changes in management, particularly because we do not have a single management experience. The applicant stressed that it had accepted or should be stressed that the applicant had accepted a public presentation of opinions, that he had accepted a number of concerns, proposals, comments from individual professional institutions or experts, in person, that he had supported most of what the legislative and legal service had proposed and on this basis the 130 amendments had been adopted. It should be noted that he also accepted what was most problematic, i.e. he proposed, on the basis of other initiatives, Article 702.a, which prevented the removal of co-administration from this law. The debate has shown that the most attention has been paid to this, namely co-management; that much attention has also been paid to attempts to prevent a decrease in the importance of existing co-management rights; that the timeliness of the introduction of Article 702.a is argued until the relevant legislation has been adopted at the level of the special law or is supplemented at this level, and that it has been, although not excessively time-consuming, mentioned rejection of the proposal that members of the supervisory boards can participate only in three supervisory councils, which has later been shown to be one of the main issues still open. The Committee adopted the amendments, rejected some, became irrelevant, adopted all the conclusions and proposed them to the State Assembly for admission. Two more must be said for that. The applicant undertook to encourage the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to take these comments into account, and the Committee itself adopted an appropriate decision proposing to the Government to take account of the debate held on the Committee on the Economy when preparing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the Committee's report. As you probably know, Members and Members, the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 11th meeting, so it is not possible to present the views of the groups. So we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.2. this year. We begin with Article 253, which I am putting to the debate, and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word in connection with this article and this amendment? Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Allow me to stop at this amendment with one question, which I am referring to both the Ministry's representative and, last but not least, the coalition parties that tabled these amendments. As long as the memory does not deceive me and I also have the documents before me, an amendment was adopted on the home working body, i.e. on the Committee on the Economy, which adds a new third paragraph in Article 253. This amendment was adopted on the proposal of the home working body and this amendment was also agreed by Mr Pšenik, who is today at this meeting. That is why I am actually interested today in why coalition parties are proposing an amendment that deletes the third paragraph, which was last adopted on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. This is also why I do not understand the explanation for the amendment tabled by the coalition parties. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you. The Government, only in explanation, may be contacted at any time available. Would you like to answer the question raised, a representative of the government? Yes, you do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you. The government, in agreement with the legal service, achieved this harmonisation because the legal service was then a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Please let anyone who wants to discuss this do it over the microphone. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Well, I can't really agree with your explanation. As far as I understood what was happening on the working body, the amendment proposed by the mother's working body was adopted. It is intended to comply with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. At that time, an amendment was adopted, which adds a new third paragraph to Article 253. Today we have an amendment of coalition parties that says, "The third paragraph is deleted." And it is stated in this explanation that this is an amendment that is supposed to be in line with the opinion of the legislative and legal service. I do not understand, so once again I ask for an explanation, because with what you have said, Madam Secretary of State, I do not actually agree or accept as some explanation that would satisfy me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you. Can we get an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	It's the same again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	So, just an answer and not a complementary answer. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 253? Member Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Well, I will support this amendment because, from the whole context or from the whole content of the law, this article 253, this third paragraph, is now irrelevant or is irrelevant under transitional provisions or under Article 702.a, this third paragraph of Article 253 is irrelevant. That is why I will also vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you for your discussion and an attempt to answer. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. That 702.a Article, which was adopted on the proposal of opposition parties on the home working body, cannot, in fact, be, in my opinion, at least a guarantee that paragraph 253 of Article 3 is deleted. Allow me, even because of such ignorance or arrogance, however you want government representatives or representatives of the ministry to come literally to the parliamentary session, in fact, there cannot be enough reason to sneer and follow a path such as that followed by coalition Members. I'm going to oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you. Member Milan M. Cwickl applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I listened attentively to the proposaler of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Secretary of State initially said, as if at a seminar: "With your help today we will have a constructive debate". I would like to remind the government that we are in the second reading of the law and that the National Assembly adopts the law. I would therefore ask for a very concrete response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the question: Does the Government agree with the proposed amendment to Article 253? And if he agrees why the government had previously agreed with the amendment of the parent's working body - because once the government should decide who it agrees with, either itself or with the legislative and legal service. So I'd like to ask you to conduct some substantive discussions, not let's go pink punk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	My friend Squeakle, thank you. I also join your request, and once again I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be aware of the role of the executive branch and the legislator who adopts the laws. I think it makes sense that the entire National Assembly is equipped with answers to questions raised by Members and Members. Madam Secretary of State, can you respond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you. I'm sorry. I can only repeat what I've already said. This third paragraph was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and was of an explanatory nature. Later, in coordination with the legislative and legal services, it was crystallized that this clarification was not necessary or that it did not solve the above-mentioned dilemmas. The Government therefore considers that the adoption of the amendment does not contribute to the clarity of the provisions of the ZGD-1 relating to supervisory councils and their activity or consent. In our opinion, the law is clear. The company shall choose either a single system with an administrative committee and a assembly as the bodies of the company or a two-tier system with the administration, the supervisory board and the assembly. The law also clearly delimits the powers and tasks of all these bodies and therefore the explicit provision, as set out in the amendment, is not necessary and may even be misleading. The government therefore supports the amendment to the complementary proposal of the GAG.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you. So, if we understand you correctly, the initial opinion of the legal and legislative service was misleading. My friend Squeakle. Madam Secretary of State, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	That the executive will allow us to speak. [[...]] Thank you very much for your explanation. Then of course I would like to remind you: on the magnetogram a few minutes ago you said something completely different. Therefore, of course, I do not thank you for having worked hard and of course said that after your mother's working body formed a proposal for a law, you have coordinated with the legislative and legal service and, of course, prepared amendments to the coalition. President, I would like to propose that, because the other Members have not witnessed this coordination and because, of course, the first clarification of the State Secretary has raised doubts about what the Government supports precisely, because the Government has first supported the amendment, which it added in the third paragraph, and now supports the amendment that withdraws the third paragraph of paragraph, that of course you call on the legislative and legal service to come to explain why the third paragraph of Article 253 that it has proposed in the original version of the opinion that we have, only this opinion, is no longer necessary. Since, of course, I cannot, we are in the National Assembly, we have the service of the National Assembly and it is right that the service of the National Assembly would explain this substantive explanation that, as you have just said, Members of the ruling coalition - you say this politically, you do not say this professionally, unless you consider yourself an expert in this National Assembly - that the provision of the teaching nature and in accordance with the comments of the PSC is not necessary. I don't know these comments by the ZPS. I only know the initial comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states that they are necessary, and even the Government has said on the home labour body that this is necessary, and therefore, of course, this third paragraph of Article 253 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Presidents, I propose that you take advantage of the business option and invite a legislative and legal service, so that we too will be Members of Parliament to continue to coordinate after the mother has already adopted the amended proposal for a second reading. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Comrade Squeakle, thank you for your proposal. In view of the introductory explanation, the intervention of the Secretary of State on the importance of the law before us today on the desire for the best possible law, I have also called on the representative of the legal and legislative service to clarify the matter in connection with the amendment and Article 253(3). Until we have a legal and legislative service to join us, now allow me, then I suggest, that's a maximum of five minutes, let's stop the session. Who opposes this decision? Colleague School, do you object?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	I'm against it. Look, Mr. Vice President, the bill-maker is the government. The government must be able to explain all its decisions and proposals. The legislative and legal service may deliver opinions on the coherence, non-compliance, relevance of individual provisions, but it cannot do this work instead of the government. What is a problem is that it may be necessary to call the minister if he can defend what I will say that the Secretary of State is not properly defending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	We're not calling the Minister. He was invited to the meeting. I think that, on the basis of the rules we have or know, it can also be replaced by other government representatives. However, I believe that we will deal with a dilemma when the legal and legislative service comes, which has also been botched or the author of the first amendment. I believe there's been a lot of appointments around this. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll resume at 10:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Dear Members! We continue on the 9th item of the agenda, which is the debate on Article 253 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. Given that we do not find a representative of the legislature in the National Assembly, we will continue the debate. Given that the vote takes place in the evening, I believe that the representative of the legislative and legal service will be able to explain during the further debate. My friend Pike, procedural or debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. I see such interruptions as stalling. Government representatives have made it clear and clear that they have aligned themselves with the legislative and legal service and that this paragraph can be deleted. I also see that this makes sense, that it applies to a single system meaningfully in advance, that it does not need to be mentioned. That's all I'd have, and I think it's been made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this in connection? My friend Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	It is indeed sad, in fact, that neither the coalition Members who have tabled nor the State Secretary, as Deputy Minister, in this case, can give a proper explanation and fall from one, in fact, an explanation that does not hold on to another, which is even less true. If you would look at the documents you have written and accepted yourself, you would find that this third paragraph has been drawn up on the basis of an opinion and a request or a proposal for a legislative and legal service. That's what you write in your explanation. And then in this explanation that you are making for the amendment today, you write that on the basis of the opinion of the legislature, you are withdrawing the same thing. So, some contradiction that can't resist any criticism. I will not change or propose the withdrawal of this amendment, which you will do when you realize that you can't really explain the reasons for the proposal. The fact is, it shows some negligence and I am sorry, I suggest that you somehow invite Mr Pseninick to a word that I think would make the only credible information, how and why this has happened, because I think he was the one who worked so hard in the law to know him most. If that's okay with the procedure, then, Vice President, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you. Member Squeakl has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	What's going on is just confirming what I thought in the first place that Mrs State Secretary was wrong because she was interpreting it as if there was some kind of seminar of the Chamber of Commerce on this law on companies. But look. If you take a look, Madam Secretary State, Rapporteur number 22, 20 February 2006, page 21 here is a very precise explanation why paragraph 253 is necessary. And this is the only formal document we have since February 20th. Today is March 1st. If anything has happened to you in the midst of anything that has convinced you otherwise, then I would like a written document or a written agreement by the government with the amendment of the parliamentary group, or at least some more logical explanation, such as the one now cited by Members of the ruling coalition, that this is a pedagogical matter. It's not even a pedagogical matter! It is either the issue of a new share or, as the amendment says, the clarification of the provisions explicitly relating to the Supervisory Board is eliminated, but only for shareholders who choose a two-tier management system, if there is no explicit indication of the application of those provisions, also for the Management Board. So it's a matter of the board and the board of directors. And anyone who knows what we are doing with this law is instituting new institutions, and it doesn't matter whether it will be fully clear in the company law, whether the power of the board of directors is substantially similar to the previous powers of the supervisory board. So I think that there were some substantive and legislative reasons why this third paragraph should be added. They're listed here. They're in the official document. Then we have in another official document, which is of a political nature, which is not a document of the parent working body or of the legal and legislative service, of course another dictatorship. I would therefore like to ask for a third document. I can no longer trust Madam Secretary of State because I do not believe in her willingness to do this session, because she has come here so, I would say, to ask you to support it, but to be constructive, because we have so agreed that the law must be adopted. That's why I don't know, President, what you're going to do. Opinions of the legislature, I understand, have not been obtained. I do not know, at least I propose that the government give us a written agreement that Article 253 should now be amended as proposed by these coalition parties. Let me warn you, Madam Secretary of State, why it is important to have a written opinion. The written opinion of the government is necessary because when the government - at least normally so - takes a decision such as to agree with the opinion of the four coalition parties, we have a so-called legal service in the government. And this law enforcement service will see whether the proposal for a government decision, which would, for example, be deleted, is in line with the legal order in force, Slovenian and European. That is why, of course, the government's written document, which has to be through the government procedure - at least this has been the practice in all governments so far, I don't know if this government has changed it, say - is also confirmed by the law service. This decision shall be adopted by the Government, signed by the Secretary-General or, I apologize, by the Acting Secretary-General, Mr Dialič, but must be given this, because if this is done at a correspondence meeting of the Government or at a regular meeting of the Government, the opinion of the Office of Law or the Office of Law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now we have some political arrangements under the table, without one written document of the legislative and legal service either by the national assembly - and here I agree with my colleague Školcz, it would be good for such a document to be delivered by the government - or by the government. That's the minimum we need. Otherwise, we are at a seminar where we can see what is more appropriate. This is not about what is more appropriate, it is about what is formally the right solution in Article 253(3) in relation to all 700 articles of the law. And that's not an insignificant article. And to say that this article has to be deleted because this story is of a pedagogical nature, it is simply not enough for me to be convincing enough to simply agree with either the proposed amendment or simply eliminate this obvious lack of willingness of the government. The government doesn't act as executive authority here, the government acts as some kind of seminar organizer in the National Assembly on the Law on Economic Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you. To discuss, or allow, before I give my word to my colleague Sok, that I cannot call the government on written grounds, because this would mean that we have to withdraw the law from the meeting, wait for the government to meet to get a new position. That is why we are continuing the debate. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I will not touch the contents of this amendment. It's not my area. My colleague Mikolić participated. But what my colleague Squeakl has just explained before me is some new explanation of the rules of procedure. Really, come on! That way, you don't have to mess with us here. Look, the amendments have been tabled by four members of the ruling coalition. These amendments are - if you will allow it, Dr. Ljevnik - this amendment was supported by four parliamentary groups, the explanation is written. Thus, amendments shall be tabled in this National Assembly in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. The government has determined whether this amendment supports or does not support it and we will vote on the amendment at the end of the debate by all Members, and I do not know if you have come up with any new rules. I object to this and I ask that you chairmen conduct the meeting in the manner set out in our Rules of Procedure. Even if the government doesn't want to, it doesn't have to be defined until the amendment, but it did it through the secretary of state. She said that this amendment supports, and I ask you kindly not to look for any other opinions, because the coalition on this amendment, which she has obviously proposed, insists on this explanation and we do not want to withdraw it without changing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Hold what you said. Each of the Members knows where his rights are. However, I believe it makes sense that matters or matters do not remain an open question in terms of democracy and in terms of the adoption of quality legislation. But of course, we'll hold all your content and take it. Comrade Squeakle, you signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	I am replicating the Member with the following fact, which is wrong in your implementation. You said the government has identified itself. Excuse me, Mr. Sok, the government has not identified itself. Let me tell you. Can I? The Government has first identified itself to include Article 253, paragraph 3, at the meeting of the home working body. Then, after the three-time implementation, the Secretary of State said first that I support the remaining third paragraph of Article 253 because we said so on the working body, but I also support the fact that it does not go out. And I have two different opinions from the government. That's what I heard today. Look at my magnetogram. Then, of course, the lady found after she went to read that she must now submit herself to the four coalition parties' proposal, but I would only like to know the substantive reasons for it. She didn't know how to tell me. Nobody's talking about content here. You're all talking about this story being of a pedagogical nature, and you said yourself that you wouldn't go into the content of the amendment. That's the problem, Mr. Sok. The problem is that this is an important amendment for a number of Slovenian companies and it doesn't matter when we press the button, or if we press the key with all the behavior. I have asked that the legislative and legal service, if the government has not already given us written consent or written support, for which something should be said by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's law service, tell us what the real solution is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you. In the meantime, we have been joined by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I ask those Members who have been reported to the floor in the preceding period if they can first make their views known to the Legislative and Legal Service. Because I see that they approve, I give my word to Mr Mozetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Firstly, this is not an amendment proposed by the legislative and legal service which would emerge from the legislative and legal service proposal. This is an amendment by the Government which has indeed come into existence with regard to certain comments by the legislature, but with regard to other articles, and in particular with 232 other articles which regulate certain matters in general both for the company of shares and for the two-tier management system. However, paragraph 232 - the third paragraph says "the payment of interim dividends must be approved by the Supervisory Board". The Supervisory Board, as you know, has only a share company with a two-tier management system. With regard to this amendment, which was adopted on the Committee, this third paragraph, which is said to be deleted now, but the legislative and legal service on the Committee has said as follows: "...that it is not properly framed, is not sufficiently clear and as such unnecessary, because it does not contribute to the clarity of the legislative text, although this is precisely its purpose." In short, the legislative and legal service has said that this amendment, which has been adopted on the Committee and which is now in the third paragraph of this Article 253, is not appropriate, is not appropriate and does not address the problem that the legal and regulatory service has raised in relation to 232, 353, 355, which introduces a provision which concerns only a company with a two-tier management system. In short, in this sense, the legislative service considers that this provision is unnecessary and can, as far as the legal and legislative service is concerned, be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thanks for the explanation. I believe that we have all heard what the legislative and legal service has said, so I ask, since the debates that have been announced before, someone has given up. [[No, no, ……]] This means that we are continuing the debate. The agenda of the panel will be: Barbara Žgajner Tavš, colleague Jerovšek and his colleague Školč. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. We also have this opinion of the Legal Service in the Magnographic Record, but allow it. At that time, the government gave the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly a glove because the government did not know how to place the original opinion of the legal and legislative service correctly in the law itself or specifically in Article 253. This still does not satisfy me, despite the clear opinion of the legislative and legal service. However, I consider that this cannot be a reason enough because the Government or because the text that was drawn up in the home working body of the national assembly in the presence of the government and, last but not least, the legislative and legal service of the national assembly, because this text does not make it more clear that this is sufficient to simply delete it, it would probably be more meaningful to recast it in such a way that the text would contribute to greater clarity. However, as far as I am concerned, I believe that Members know the procedure, not least justice. Mr Sok, you violated the Members' business rights because you did not speak of the amendment. I believe at this point we're all discussing an amendment, and you've been talking about a matter of procedure that I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service has explained these legal ambiguities that were practically absent and from which the opposition has tried to produce a story. I do not know, in fact, Members and Members of the Group have a discretionary right to submit amendments and that they also vote if they reach the majority, and I do not know why all this and the spectacle is about what has happened to this third paragraph of Article 253. In addition, when Mr Swickl said that the Secretary of State could not explain some small matters which were essentially procedural and commercial in nature, I would like to point out that it should include a little more memory. I must say, when he was Minister for European Affairs, he could not explain many times why the previous government was so unsuccessful in drawing on European funds. There has never been this response and in fact the country has suffered great damage and these were essential matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. It's a replica of my friend Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	I'm not going to replicate Mr. Jerovsk because it doesn't make sense, but I'm going to ask the government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Not Comrade Squeakle, but of course I won't let you do that. You can apply to the debate, but only after colleagues of the School. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	I will, let me, let me finish my sentence. Mr Jerovšek said that, of course, Mrs State Secretary could not explain some small things. I am only interested in how a company with a single system will issue shares without the third paragraph of Article 253.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thanks for the replica. I give my word to Mr. Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I would only find that, with Mr Mozetič's explanation, we have not come very far. If you have listened carefully to it, we can conclude that, on the basis of this basic comment by the legislative and legal service, the Government has not responded accordingly. That's why the coalition's amendment was made. But this means that even if the coalition erases this inappropriate reaction of the government, we are still in the fact that the basic comments of the legislative and legal services remain and that certain things in the law need to be regulated more specifically. And I find that neither government nor coalition would be able to translate this into marriage. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in the coalition, it will go to the heart that state officials are not - and here I am also referring to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy - primarily to regulate transactions for privileged entities and, on the other hand, to regulate the replacements of directors in different companies, but primarily to create an appropriate legislative environment for all economic operators. In this regard, of course, this goes beyond, I will say, the question of this amendment and the issue of this law. In fact, it appears that some people in the government are exploiting their functions for other things rather than preparing appropriate decision-making papers in the National Assembly. That's why, I'll say, I'm disappointed in the government's reactions and the coalition's reactions in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Because I don't see the desire after the debate I see. [[...]] Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Allow me to call the government again for the end, and I believe that the coalition Members will also be grateful for this because they obviously do not hope to ask this question for themselves. Last but not least, we have heard a few words about the procedure, which is more or less related to the content of this amendment or article, so that, last but not least, the government representative or representative will say what the content of this amendment, which, on the proposal of the legislative and legal service, at least so read in the explanatory memorandum, once is not necessary, second time is not necessary. I would ask for a substantive explanation that, after all, those Members who do not participate or do not participate in the framework of the company law will know what the deletion of this amendment actually means.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you. Before I give my word to the government, I'll give it to Ambassador Pajk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Again, thank you. The deletion of this paragraph only means that a single shareholding company does not require the approval of the supervisory board, I think of the supervisory authority because it is not easy and only the consent of the body which is appropriate for this purpose shall be issued. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you. Let me point out once again that the amendments have been proposed by four parliamentary groups and that, of course, the government can, in so far as it feels needed, also announce this. The authorship of the amendment is by the four parliamentary groups, we have heard some debaters from these parliamentary groups and I propose that we close the debate. He wants the government? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I will not repeat what I have already said, but I would like to point out that the third paragraph of Article 253 was tabled as an amendment to the second reading of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly and that, as set out in its explanation, it wanted to explicitly point out the separation between a single and a two-tier management system in a way that expressly states that the provisions relating to the Supervisory Councils or because the law uses the term 'consent of the Supervisory Council' only apply to companies with a two-tier system. This is not necessary for companies with a single system, as it does not have an authority of the Supervisory Board. This is the content of this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you. We haven't finished the debate yet. My friend Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, it took 55 minutes for the government to prepare and respond accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Good. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 253 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. I am putting to the debate Article 273 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Comrade Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President, Representative of the Government! I want to explain the amendment to the 273rd Article of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This is because in the current proposal of the Company Act, membership in the Supervisory Boards is limited to a maximum of three memberships. It should be stressed that there may be a problem with companies with a large number of subsidiaries. In fact, our amendment proposes to list up to five of the memberships that are held by the representative of the ruling company in the company-related companies. What's this all about? If we first look at comparative practice in other countries of the European Union, we see that membership is limited to a maximum of ten in some countries. This is about countries such as Germany, Austria, Croatia. In France this number is limited to eight, some other countries, such as Italy and Switzerland, do not know the limits, in the Netherlands only apply to membership in public limited companies. Slovenia would thus place the lowest in Europe with a authorised mandate in three companies. We believe that this would be a precedent that is unnecessary. Another important fact, as I said, is the issue of companies in particular. We have companies like Gorenje, such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka, such as some other large diversified Slovenian companies, which have a larger number of subsidiaries, not three, four, five, but a few tens, even after 60. And now the question is why we limit membership in the supervisory councils to three. This is not logical in some way, but in these companies this proves to be pointless, because the manager of such a company is also responsible for the operations of companies that it owns, which are the subsidiaries of that company. And he can control and control them by sitting in the oversight councils of these subsidiaries, of course it is not necessary, he can empower someone else, but he can sit alone in these various control councils. We do not think it makes any sense for the legislator to now set his own borders and say, no more than three, but it is essential, more meaningful, to adopt a provision that says that the highest number of memberships does not include memberships held by a representative of a ruling company in up to five companies connected by companies. In short, it is simply a matter of letting, in accordance with the principle of a deregulation, the owners decide to do so in the statute. We don't know why the State's intention to regulate this by itself is to set a border at three. This was not sufficiently explained in the discussion. I think it makes no sense, and I argue this once again, and I conclude with two essential arguments. Firstly, the international comparative view shows that we are the country in the European Union that will set this limit at the lowest, unlike some other comparable countries such as Germany, Austria, Croatia, where the limit is up to ten, France, where the limit is up to eight, Italy and Switzerland, where they do not know the limit, the Netherlands, which has limits only in public limited companies. Secondly, in companies that have a larger number of subsidiaries, this is an unnecessary restriction and thus we complicate the normal operation of companies, which I do not think is the intention of the company law, at least as presented in the introductions of previous hearings by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I propose that this amendment, which we have tabled in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you. Ambassador Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Well, after the theater was completed in about 253, we can now take some other meaningful matters seriously. By the way, we usually go to the theater at night, but sometimes there's some matinee, and that's sustainable. I am speaking on behalf of our delegation's DeSUS Group to propose to support this amendment. In fact, we do not find any reasonable reason why we should really put such a strict restriction into legislation. Because we are convinced that it cannot be precisely the intention of the government to be elegantly shaken by those who may be overly present in individual supervisory councils, provided that the law simply does not allow them to be there. It is, however, not rational for those who represent more important companies, which have multiple related companies with multiple subsidiaries, to be prevented from having their basic supervisory function in these and other companies. And all we have to do is listen to an economy that strongly resists such restrictions. This was also mentioned on the Committee on the Economy. There is, unfortunately, no more in-depth debate. Today, I do not think that particular debates are necessarily necessary, as we have all been able to get to know each other through various messages, through the media, what the problem is if we have only agreed on three options. Therefore, we suggest that others too follow that this overly restrictive restriction is facilitated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you. Member Pike has been announced for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. If we compare other European legislation in this area, it is true that they are not as restrictive as they are, let's say, now we have a proposal on three. However, the fact is that in other European countries there are not so many, the difference is how much state capital is in equity companies, so I personally see that there is a first difference. The other difference is, I think, another important reason why it makes sense to limit it is that the Supervisory Board is not just by collecting meetings, but is a responsible work and if you want to go into work, you have three members in the supervisory councils quite enough. That makes sense from that angle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. My friend Martin Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. I think this amendment is problematic in particular because it now adds five to this basic quota, even though there is talk of controls in companies that are connected. I think that today there is quite a problem that some are in different supervisory councils and that there can be inadequacy, inadequacy in the performance of this function. This could also be a basic guide in the adoption of this law or in particular in the adoption of this Article. That is why I will not support this amendment with this proposal of five additional amendments. It would somehow be more logical or more variable if this number were to be increased from three to five. Perhaps I would think a little differently then, but I will not support this proposal, as proposed by the LDS House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. Member Lahovnik also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, because here's the talk of having a maximum of three, that's a yes, and then it's a complex one. I'd like to draw attention to one fact. We are speaking, content, the essence of our amendment is that the highest number does not include up to five memberships occupied by the representative of the ruling company in group-related companies. So, what it means is, it's about companies that you already control, whose business knows and controls them. But now what's most important. Why lay the most restrictive border in the European Union by law on companies? I've given you cases of other countries that don't know these limitations. Once again, Germany, Austria, through which we like to imitate ourselves, has this limit of up to 10. In Italy and Switzerland, this restriction is not known at all; in the Netherlands, this restriction is established only in public limited companies. However, my argument, which is essential in view of this discussion, which has just taken place, is that, if companies so wish, they can limit membership with the statutes as they wish. Because of me, if you want, there's a stockholder assembly where they can tie their managers if you want to, to a certain behavior. However, what is essential is, of course, individual contracts where certain restrictions can be imposed, if the owners, of course, believe that this is necessary. In short, if the owners think that he can really be a manager or, if you want, a member of a maximum of three different supervisory boards, they can quietly write this down in an individual contract, they can write it down in the company's statutes for me. What is a fundamental argument is that it does not make sense to impose such a restrictive restriction on a roof law such as the Company Act. This does not necessarily mean that a manager will now automatically be a member of the supervisory boards of five subsidiaries, plus four other companies. Of course it doesn't. This is also a matter if you want other contractual relations, as I said: individual contracts, relations with owners. We don't command them to be in much. What is essential here is that we do not act differently than we do in other European countries, and that we do not act contrary to what we stand for most. This is the principle of deregulation to transfer ownership to owners, that we do not want to centralise all decisions and, I will say, very rigidly write them down in legislation. So I must say, I haven't heard any arguments here. Now, if owners feel that some restrictions are necessary, they can still do this differently. The moment you write down such a restrictive restriction in the legislation, then it is inside and then it has a company, if you want a New Ljubljana Bank, which has 60 subsidiaries, may have a problem, either Gorenje or Mercator, or I don't know which other well-deverified Slovenian company. And why create unnecessary restrictions? But no one prevents them from doing so themselves in the way they feel appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you. Member Aloise Sok has also been reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to warn you when I listen to this debate, just one way. I don't know if it's really right to compare our situation with the countries of the European Union, I don't know, Germany, France. It seems to me that there is one problem with us, and this is the problem that the country in many companies is the owner and that, if you can calm down, we have met a number of testimonies in the past, especially when you were in power, that one and the same people were sitting on the supervisory boards. We have been able to read about this many times, and we have also looked at the schemes in which the Governing Council is located. Physically, they did not control it, but of course, they exercised much control over something that was said to have been given high meetings for this function. I also don't know if there's a comparative practice in this sense when you say that a company can also have 60 or more subsidiaries. I don't know what that means, but it seems to me that this is also one thing that creates the whole business situation of a company, quite untransparent and very complicated. So I don't know. Otherwise, I must say that I understand this debate and I would even be willing to support it, because it is true why the country would intervene in such a restrictive way and settle matters where it is not necessary. Let these societies handle it with statutes. As long as the State co-owners of these economic operators, it is likely that until then it has some interest to tell how many supervisory councils an individual is to sit in simultaneously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you. We continue the debate. Comrade Lakhovnik, you will get the word in the form of a debate, not in the form of a replica, because colleague Sok only mentioned you once, and only to calm down. On that basis, I can't give you a replica. We continue the debate. Member Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much again. I would like to mention just a few things that might help to ease some fears about this withdrawal of restrictions. First time. As for the meetings, I'm sure the government didn't have this in mind how to cut down on people's meetings. Because the cumulative effect would be no different if someone who A was sitting on one committee and couldn't be in the other. [[in the Supervisory Board]] Well, someone else who's writing B is gonna get this meeting. And there's no rational reason. Another time. As far as the quality of work is concerned, I am sure that in the Supervisory Boards there are representatives of owners that the owners are interested in appointing only those they consider to be able to represent their interests qualitatively and to carry out quality professional work. Third time. With regard to the members of the supervisory boards appointed by the State, there is no reason for them to accept the reasons for the restrictions because this moment can remove them - the state places them there, and the state also withdraws them from there. Fourth time. If we don't accept this, I think we're gonna do more bad than good. But it's probably about doing good for all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you. I will read the following four from the list of applicants for the debate so that they can prepare themselves: the first will be given the word of my colleague, Zvikl, followed by Lachovnik, then the representative of the government and her colleague Bajc. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I'll take it from here. I believe the government won't object, so it's up to the last. We're moving on. I give my word to Ambassador Milan M. Cwickle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	What two Members of the Slovenian Coalition have said before me shows the real purpose of this law. The real purpose of this law is to reduce that basic doctrine that a member of the Supervisory Board in three companies is precisely because the state has a certain part of the state capital and, of course, the state wants to place its own, politically subordinated people in those companies where it has not yet succeeded. Of course you said that yourself. The second thing I would like to say is whether we are the European Union or not. We have been the European Union since 1 May 2004, even though this government has acted non-Europeanly and, as a true type of entrepreneur, a type of owner, limits the free enterprise initiative. These are simple facts. Not only does he abuse and break a whole series of laws, but he does with a much sharper provision that will influence what was said in yesterday's newspaper. [[The only newspaper we have in this area]] Finance, human resources crisis and stock exchange shocks. However, if we add to this additional emphasis that - and, of course, this additional exacerbation, we would like to exclude with the amendment that among these three companies should also be included, it is said, all societies, including those within the company, then of course, I do not understand these governments anymore. I do not understand that this government wants Slovenia to develop in all parts of the sky and, of course, when Slovenian companies want to spread to all parts of the sky, they say, towards South-Eastern Europe, towards the European Union, towards the countries of Eastern Europe, of course, they must establish subsidiaries there. And no one other than the administrations of companies which, of course, are responsible for business before the supervisory councils of parent or corporate companies, can sit in these supervisory councils. As one of the known financial experts says, I think, is simply that instead of the head of the company deciding in the supervisory boards of the subsidiary, he needed a seminar before the supervisory board of this subsidiary, where he would explain over a long period of time and energy to one of the subordinates what is the key development problem of each company. Of course, if we want to have something other than branches of foreign companies in Slovenia - perhaps this is the goal of this government and some of the parties to this coalition - then of course you must support this amendment. You cannot imagine that, I don't know, Mercator, NLB, Prevent, Gorenje etc., if I list them, he will not control his subsidiaries without the most crucial people sitting in more than three supervisory boards of subsidiaries, so I suggest you support this amendment. If you do not support it, this means that in fact, together with the government, you want to do what is not European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you. Member Lahovnik has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. I was encouraged to discuss this by my colleague, Mr Sok. I appreciate his honesty in saying out loud what someone else thinks. In fact, when some economic commentators also told me that this provision introduces the political cleansing of the supervisory councils, that Janša needs space for new political supervisors in companies, for new economic commissioners, I myself thought that it might be a space of comment that this is not the purpose, but Mr Sok has made it very clear here. He said that I was right in content when I said that another amendment should be adopted here, but he also said, as long as the state is such a big owner in companies, that provision makes sense until then. In short, to perform this cleansing, political cleansing in the control councils. You know, it's really pointless here, because all we're trying to do is help those companies that are companies, and somehow remove some senseless restriction. It's not about someone else being in four or five other control councils right now, it's just company companies. But for your intellectual honesty, Mr Sok, I really thank you here and my recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Sok? Discussion later. Good. Then Member Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Maybe I'd start with some of that cleaning, if that's what we can call it. Mr Lahovnik also agrees, given that I correctly understand this amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy, the fourth indent of Article 273. This amendment leaves and says that a person who is a member of the Supervisory Board or of the Management Board already in three companies, but if we read the first line of this Article, he says he cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board. So this amendment, if I understand it correctly, retains this fourth indent. However, it extends and allows or allows it to be in five supervisory boards in related companies or company companies and in corporately connected companies. And I ask the government here whether such a provision is acceptable or not acceptable or whether the government around this amendment is defined. Once again, this amendment retains that, say, Petrol - I don't know if they are, but I don't think they are - say Petrol, Mercator, well, I don't know, the New Ljubljana Bank - says here it can only be in three. However, if it is related companies, for example, within Mercator connected companies, that it may be in five supervisory councils or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. At first, I didn't intend to come forward because I somehow felt like a logical amendment, which is essentially following the basic intention of the law itself, which we say is very important. I'll try to say this constitutional intention in three sentences. It is a free economic initiative, a market economy and, last but not least, what comes next is a free choice of the management of individual companies, owners, shareholders decide for themselves how to manage companies. And if we follow this, then, of course, within about 2,500 supervisors who are supposed to be in Slovenia, and in this quota, 2,500 are about 400 who go through the government's human resources network through KAD and SOD. Now, everything else is free, here, and because of these 400 supervisors, as determined by the current ruling coalition, we will, of course, limit this freedom. These are two illogical things, rather than the government as a proponent going in a different direction to raise the quality of those who, of course, exercise this control function; either in a two-track or now in the future also in a single system. And, of course, with some other legislation, I would advocate compulsory licensing and so on and not mention it. There's a cancer wound. Today, a supervisor in a company can be anyone, anyone. At least when we look at some of the lists, now I'm gonna stay with the 400 that go through the sieve. Except the Members and the others we have, but I say: but the rest can be all. That is why once again: I will support this amendment simply for this reason, because it follows the basic intent of the law itself, the whole law and if everything else rests on a free initiative, why, of course, would not it also follow here and let these things be regulated by individual economic societies in their respective acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you. When Member Sok has been declared by the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I would like only one opportunity to take advantage of this, because our fellow Member of the Squeaks lists at every opportunity how bad this government is, but the data does not show it. The data is different. The data show that economic growth is more than 4% or at least 4%, although your government has planned to lower public spending, that public debt has decreased from 30.7% to 29%, that Slovenia exports 60% to the Member States of the European Union, and that before we take over the euro or the only country that will enter the euro area in the short term, and that is what Mr Barroso will also say here tomorrow. So I don't know, but you can repeat this story, but obviously we're going to have to point out that we're going to have to answer again and again, that it's not like you want to sell it to the Slovenian public or threaten how this government, I don't know, is bad and how Slovenia is going back. Of course it doesn't. This is not true and please, if you are trying to understand this and stop repeating it, or keep repeating it, we will answer you in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. A replica of a fellow Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Very short, Mr. Sok. Let me teach you that, of course, the euro takeover programme has adopted and begun to implement the previous government since the end of 2003, together with the Bank of Slovenia, and that this government, in its first year alone, with your Minister of Finance for more than 600 billion, has indebted the Slovenian state. 240 billion plus, as you know, we have Darsa's latest takeover and, of course, this government has the possibility to take over the euro so far, but the European Central Bank will decide this in the autumn of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. Therefore, neither the previous debater nor colleague Squeakl in the replica did not adhere to Article 273. This is probably what we all realized when we listened to, so I really expect us to stick to the business provision that says that the content of the amendment before us or the article is being discussed. And the statistics of the previous and this government are not the subject of this amendment, not of this article. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with Article 273? My friend Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. I must say that if I do not yet understand Minister Visiank or I understand Minister Visianc, that he does not actually have the experience to work in the economy and that he does not realize what he is doing and what he is doing with the proposal for such a article of law, I would say that I do not understand Mrs Starina Kosem, who has this experience and should probably be the one who could reasonably explain to us why they went into such a radical restriction of this membership. So, the fact is, from experience, you should know how important it is, in fact, that the managers of those companies that have their subsidiaries or subsidiaries are most called upon to manage the least effort, the moves and decisions that are being made in these bodies, but not to tolerate this philosophy and the policy of the companies they know most through some people who will have to train them to do so. And the practice in Slovenia is that these companies or holding companies are already so many that, in fact, if someone did an analysis, they would find that we are doing ourselves harm, a problem. And what the Liberal Democracy offers you and what the Society Manager also tells you is serious, including the Chamber of Economics, but sometimes it is just to listen, just to take into account. In this case, they will only be grateful to you, and you too will likely come to know with a lighter heart and realize that this amendment is something to be drawn to. For practical reasons, those who have or have worked in the economy know that we are in difficulty, that there are too few people, and that if you already wanted to restrict them, I agree that it would be better to limit the control and role of supervisors who are in state enterprises or in companies where the country has a greater share. And here you did, unfortunately, a mistake that you didn't write it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr Janc, let me just warn Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy that you have run out of time for the 9th item of the agenda. We're moving on. Comrade Anderlich, calm down! My colleague Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I'm in a bit of a dilemma myself. I'm sure I'm thinking in a way that some things need to be narrowed down a little bit. Some are irreplaceable in this society, and that they may be in many supervisory councils, that is probably right. It is true that they limit to three in these stories, such as large companies or small companies, this is, of course, right. However, I am in the dilemma that someone, one group, should also be the Mercator we have been talking about today, but perhaps it is not the wisest thing to limit me inside a successful company's house or less successful to say, but here there will be only three maximum, because then you can't. This may be a bit too much, too deep an interference of the state with the power vested in the market area by the free initiative of companies. We may be going too far here if we're going to limit it. However, I would like to state one valid reason why so. Is this to spread this base of people in companies that are not close now? Is that the purpose? Is it another purpose to somehow make things impossible for one and the same to appear in five companies within the company or for some third reason? Perhaps a little more clarification would be needed here by the proponents that it might be easier to decide who we are a little bit in the dilemma in this story, because I think that when we talk about the market economy, that means much more than just what the state will determine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you. Finally, a representative of the government has been reported. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Yes, see, the appropriate function of the Supervisory Board is undoubtedly to control the functioning of the company and, of course, to control the functioning of the company's administration. This function shall be exercised by the Authority as a whole, and its members shall also be liable, in accordance with the explicit provisions of the law, in the event that they do not exercise their functions carefully and in accordance with the principle of integrity and integrity and the good master. With regard to the conditions for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, criteria for members of the Supervisory Board may be found on the website of the Association of Supervisory Boards, including: comprehensive business knowledge, relevant expertise, that they are not economically, personally or otherwise closely linked to the company or its administration, so as not to exercise supervisory, managerial or management functions or advisory tasks for competing companies, so as not to be major shareholders or competitors. Furthermore, as a very important criterion, the timeliness of the members of the Supervisory Board. In view of the explicit awareness, including the associations of members of the Supervisory Boards on the importance of this function, the Government considers that participation in a maximum of three Supervisory Boards is an appropriate arrangement for appropriate professional supervision in a particular shareholder society and a qualitative step primarily towards the professionalisation of this function. As far as the company's concerned. Concert companies are legally independent entities and are treated in exactly the same way. The concert can, of course, form several companies, which are linked, for example, to a unified leadership. It is precisely in these cases that effective supervision, independent supervision by the Supervisory Board in a particular company is even more important and, of course, necessary. The substance limiting the number of members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board is not a domain of European Community law and is entirely left to individual Member States. For all these reasons, we believe that the proposed provision corresponds to our national regulation of law, companies, and therefore we do not support this proposed amendment. However, since I was personally challenged by my own opinion, I must say that, as far as my experience in practice is concerned, the supervisory function is very important, of course, if you are also aware back then of the responsibility that such work or such function brings, so I personally believe that you cannot perform such work in more than three supervisory councils. That is why I would not accept such work in more than three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you. Comrade Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Not to argue with the Secretary of State, but I would just like to say why you should not leave these criteria, which you listed, and I will use that word again, freely for those who decide who will be the supervisor in a firm. Why should this be prescribed by marriage with the number of possible overseers? That doesn't solve it, 3, 5, 10, 15 doesn't solve it. I'll give you a different comparison. The difference is whether you're a manager or not, or whether you're a high-ranking official, or even a secretary of state - I won't talk about ministers, or sitting in two or three supervisory councils or holy agencies and so on. There are also incomparable things about engagement, time and so on. Once again, why not let those who make the decision do so? It's not up to the law, it's not up to the government, it's not up to the state. Legal entities that are companies and bodies in these companies shall decide on this. They accept their statutes, their rules of the game and they set these rules of the game. Let's give them the free way to handle this! Once again, we are at odds with this very roof law, which is called ZGD-1; on the one hand we are talking about great freedom and on the other hand we are narrowing this freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I don't know if my contribution will help the individual decide on this amendment, but he will speak against this amendment. In fact, in Slovenia, since we have graduated from our country, we have acquired companies, we have companies, we have companies with limited liability, and so on, we have formed first administrations, we have formed supervisory boards, and we have certainly learned something from these lessons. What have we learned? We have learned that Slovenia is small, that managers know each other, and thank God they know each other and are friends. And what happened, and what we learned, among other things, is that, say, two managers, the president of two administrations, two companies, have named each other in their supervisory boards. It's just one of the experiences. I'm not saying it's general, I don't want to do anything with it, but it's probably a logical consequence at least at the beginning of the scattered ownership of most of our businesses. Really, I speak from experience. I was also a member of three supervisory councils and a member of the association, of course only until 22 October 2004. And because of this in some way I understand the proposaler that he has somehow taken a restrictive approach to the definition of this article, it is said that he does not give these possibilities that one citizen, a citizen, could be a member of a large number of supervisory councils. Last but not least, as the distinguished Secretary of State has said, a member of the Supervisory Board is also financially responsible. Now, a comparison with the European situation would only last, in my opinion, in that and only if our group and number of companies or the relative share of the companies can be compared with other European countries. I don't have this data, and if there's no comparison, then we probably can't define it, as in Germany, as Dr. Lakhovnik said, our membership in the control councils in a large number of control councils. So, as stated in the introduction, I do not support this amendment of the Liberal Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you. This concludes the debate on Article 273 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. I am putting to the debate Article 474 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. Excuse me? I'm sorry. Would you like to discuss, Barbara Žgajner Tavš? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I would be here because I have seen that, despite the initial opposition on the labour force and the lack of alignment with the legal and legislative service, the government has only taken into account the comments made by the representative of the legislative and legal service, I would like to express my support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you. This concludes the debate in connection with the 474th forehead and the amendment of the aforementioned parliamentary groups. I am putting to the debate Article 699 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. In connection with this amendment, my colleague Kumer wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. I have to say that last night, that's 12 hours ago when I came home and watched Trach's show got confirmation that this amendment we tabled on this article 699 was even more justified. In fact, the whole show was about protecting small shareholders. The definition of Article 384(1) summarises a directive of the European Union which sets a ceiling of 90% of ownership for the printing of shareholders to companies in the field of the European Union. This provision, in our view, applies to developed capital markets where, due to tradition, culture and developed legislation, the possibility for a majority shareholder to go down in any way to the detriment of smaller shareholders is unlikely or minimal. With us in Slovenia, these options are wider and larger, since only 10 years ago we received for the first time as citizens the so-called certificates with which we have embarked on this stock market, etc., and we are gaining our first experience. But these 10 years of experience have shown that because of the skills of some individual major owners - and I will use this word - the ignorance of us, small shareholders and owners, in many companies they have led business policy by causing injury or harm to minority minority shareholders. In particular, it should be noted that most major owners of companies, where the operation of the majority owner was correct, have already been printed in agreement with minority owners. However, I can safely argue that in companies where the majority owner is already above the 90% threshold and does not reach the current legal threshold allowing compression of 95% of ownership, shareholders' disputes are based on infringements of the majority owner following the current company law. Although the applicable company law requires the courts to resolve disputes quickly, those disputes share the fate of other disputes and slowness in the courts. That is why many of these conflicts are still ongoing. In the event of an enforcement of this Article - and this Article 384 will occur - in such a content as this, majority owners in companies where such disputes are taking place could apply this provision to the legal possibility that minority owners may be expelled from the company on the basis of this Article, irrespective of the fact that these disputes have not yet been concluded. In this case, minority shareholders who run economic disputes would lose their legal interest and be harmed. Therefore, once again, in order to protect these small shareholders who are in charge of these disputes, we propose that the government and the majority in this national assembly, with this gesture, which does not mean that we are protecting all small shareholders, but those who are in these conflicts, that in Article 699, where certain other harmonisations are concerned, this option prevents those large shareholders from doing so in point 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you. I no longer see the desire for a debate in connection with Article 699. Yes, you do. Around 699, the government will also be defined. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you, thank you very much. The amendment refers to the non-application of a provision on the exclusion of minority shareholders in the event of proceedings against a shareholder in a court of law in which shareholders enforce the nullity or dissuasiveness of the decisions of the assembly. I think it is necessary to point out here that already in Article 704 the complementary proposal of the ZGD-1 provides that the procedures which will be in place when the GGD-1 is in effect will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act. Given that the proposed amendment to supplement Article 699 relates to the non-application of the provision of the new GDD-1 in the case referred to in Article 704, that is, when a procedure has already begun to repeal the decision of the Assembly or to establish the nullity of the decisions of the Assembly, there is no need for a specific provision which makes sense the same content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. You have the floor, Ambassador Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Since there are some other harmonisations, it is said that there are some transitional provisions, despite the fact that Article 704 contains them, this provision, which we propose in this point, is clearer and clearer about which. It generally speaks here, "the matters of which a claim or legal remedy has already been lodged when this law is in force or in respect of which it has already been enforced." "That's all," it's over. That is why we are for a more dictated, clearer provision in this 699 as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on this Article. However, I am putting to the debate Article 702.a and the four amendments tabled to this Article, the first, tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the second, tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, third, tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the fourth, also by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We will hold a debate on all four amendments at the same time, so I ask any debaters to indicate which of the articles to 702.a. will be the subject of their debate. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	I could use some water right now, but I'm going to move on to 702. A Article 2 paragraph. First of all, I'm going to say in principle why we made these three comments. We have given these three additions to Article 702a for a simple reason, because it has already been seen on the Committee on the Economy that the members of the Committee have different interpretations and interpretations of what has been adopted. And we are essentially making the text clearer and more unambiguous and uniform. And I'm going to this second paragraph. The solution is as meaningful as it was in the original proposal for a directive of the European Shareholder Society for working representations in the bodies of the company. Let me just remind you that in this proposal for a directive, either a single-to-the-most-half-working representation in the supervisory world and the same, either a single-to-the-most-half-representative, in the management board when it comes to a single system, was a control two-tier. So, on the question of whether the least unitary working representation in the supervisory council and the least unitary working representation on the board of directors are comparable or not, there has been no longer any dilemma in Europe for a long time. The answer here is simple and clear: they are certainly comparable and likely, because other appropriate systemic solutions are not even possible. By the way, let me mention at least two countries which have exactly the same regime as we have, that is, as we suggest, Denmark and Norway. In some ways, I would try to paralyze or reject the hypothetical combinations of this, because this has also been heard in this National Assembly or in some comments and texts, under what assumption could happen that even more representatives among non-executive directors could be represented as shareholders in the case of a unit working representative in the Administrative Board. These comments, either these comments or these comments - I will call them insinuations, are totally inappropriate, unacceptable, because scissors and canvas, as I said before, are in the hands of shareholders or owners. They write down the statutes, they write down the acts, they decide for themselves what mechanisms they will have to manage and control in society. They may, of course, consist of a larger or smaller size or total number of members of the Management Board, a larger or smaller number of executive directors, a total number of members of the Management Board, a larger or smaller number of executive directors who are not or are members of the Management Board. It is said that the whole regulation is determined by itself. If shareholders do not wish to do so, it cannot - never - happen with the legally ordered unit working representation that the working representation can vote on the shareholders or owners of the capital. These options, these options, are not even hypothetical, theoretically, never exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Pike applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you. Of course, I will support the amendment to 202.a, which we have received here on the table for a simple reason, because it is not possible to compare membership in the supervisory board and membership in the board of directors for a single or two-tier system. If you are a member of the Management Board in a single system, of course, it means much more than just a supervisor in a company with a two-tier system, since you can do much more to help or make a more meaningful contribution to the management of the company. Therefore, I think that this text, which says that at least one of the three types of workers added must be entirely satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? My friend Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. In fact, the second amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups does not differ from what has already been stated in Article 702.a, by really finding on the working body that the matter has been quite complicated and this is actually more clearly defined. That's why I'm going to support this other amendment myself. I would like to say, however, that all these amendments refer to article 702.a, where, in fact, there is now some definition of the participation of workers in the management of the single system. In order to tell my colleague Kumru: when we discussed earlier that it might not be possible for supervisory councils to legally define the number of members, and what is now defined here on a single system where certain things have been legally framed and regulated, we could also ask ourselves who has been well-refined by this law or who has somehow deepened as regards the single system, that this single system is primarily intended for those companies where the majority owner will, in fact, have a majority ownership. At least that way it is possible to conclude, and somehow we are also predicting, and we could also ask ourselves whether this owner should then have greater freedom, free hands in terms of this administration. I would like to point out that many times we are discussing certain things exactly what is good for us, what is good for us, and what happens next in another law or topic - and then we turn the board around a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you. A replica? Replica, Comrade Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	I have to say, in the fall, it really does grow different fruits and pick different fruits, but this is really about mixing apples and pears. In this case, it is a matter governed by another law, and I have been talking about another law, I have now been talking about transitional provisions, which temporarily because of the legal void and in some ways also constitutional equality governs this area. We have a "lex specialis", a law that will regulate it, and one that you used yesterday -- to use this Styrian word -- "scanned," and that again today is unjustifiable. Because you can see now that you're interpreting things your own way. This is, constitutionally, certain rights of workers or employees in the management of companies and we will resolve this in that law. And all I have to do is give some recognition to the government that it has learned and listened to that this matter is also not regulated in single companies in the GDD, but that this will all be regulated in a law on the participation of workers in the management of companies where a two-tier management system has already been defined. And again. Those of us who have done at least this basic mathematics while there were no computers: the unitary representation of employees in the board of directors means one third and two thirds always have owners, shareholders and so on. One third is just, and you're listing me among the three ones and so on. Entreprising representation means one third and no more. More importantly, this will increase if you use mathematics - colleague Mojet is not to explain it - this percentage will decrease and it will also come to a large number up to 20 or 25%, not to a third, when it comes to non-executive and executive directors and so on in one board of directors. Don't fool around like that! This is the minimum, a third of workers, to be able to co-manage and co-decision on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you. I give the floor to Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. In the beginning, I would like to thank my colleague Kumr for actually saying yes to my thoughts or confirming the question. So I can say that I have correctly understood the situation on the working body itself, because article 702.a speaks only of transitional provisions, i.e. provisions until the implementation of the law on the participation of workers in management, to be drawn up by the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Last but not least, Article 702a, first paragraph. I am convinced that it is right to attach today to the amendment of the Social Democrats, which gives only and only some guarantee of co-ordination or participation of workers in co-management, until the adoption of the law on the participation of workers in governance. It is only a transitional period, which will not be the last time we fill the void.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you. A representative of the government also took part in the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. One and two-tier systems are two different systems of corporate governance. However, each company has a legitimate right to choose any one of them. Despite the fact that co-management of workers in management is needed as close as possible between systems, it is precisely because of their diversity that there is only a numerical comparison as we have seen it, that the representatives of workers in the bodies of society in both systems cannot in any way provide a satisfactory response to their role. In so doing, the amendment's proposer referred to the established systems of the Scandinavian countries in particular. In doing so, let us point out that, for example, Sweden has two and not one third of employees in companies with more than 25 employees with a single management system in the management body. Finland shall have a single management system, an option of the supervisory authority in the management body, a number of representatives in accordance with the agreement; however, if this agreement is not available, one quarter in the management or control bodies or management groups, and only in companies with more than 150 employees. Denmark also has, according to our data, a specific two-tier management system, with two to one-thirds of employees in the body if the company has more than 50 employees. The Baltic Member States do not know the co-decision of workers in the private sector. With the proposed regulation, Slovenia would be a maximum standard unit management system compared to other Member States. The proposer has devoted a great deal of effort to the solution presented by the new 702.a. The solution was also supported by representatives of workers, employers and other key institutions, and we believe that it provides an appropriate compromise solution to co-decision between workers in the single management system in Slovenia. For these reasons, we do not support the proposed amendment of the Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you. The debate, Comrade Kumer. Here you go. Can you turn it off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	We have provided you with what the research group has done to regulate these matters in the European Union and from the 25 members of the European Union in the 18th have this representation of workers up to this ceiling, which I have told Norway and I have given Denmark a case that has the same solution if you have already talked about the Baltic neighbouring countries there. But I would like to draw attention to one other problem in the countries of the European Union which have a tradition with a single system. They find that they have a problem with the predominance of management functions vis-à-vis the supervisory boards. And there are trends after the so-called convergence elements of the coincidence of a single and two-tier system. In a two-tier system, as with us, we find that supervisory functions prevail over management functions. It is said that they are also seeking in these countries, which you have been talking about, to amend legislation in order to try to bring these things into one direction. They have problems with the regulation so far and will give more emphasis to the supervisory function because they dominate management, of course it is the other way around. And so once again, the convergence trend is one of the elements that will also lead to a change in this regime in the near future in those countries that you listed. That is why we are already alerting us today, and we have done so with this proposal, why would we then go back to these changes if we could take into account their findings today when we are regulating this legislation in our country today. Therefore, once again, this proposal is a well-intentioned, well-intentioned proposal and does not prejudge any matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you. Comrade Bogdan Barovich, please. Comrade Kumer, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Now I understand this logically, very simply, I know what a single system that will be new to us, and I know how two-tier it is. I know that the cooperation of workers will be governed by the law on the participation of workers in management, and these matters are clear. There is not yet this law, and that is clear. I would like to know whether there is any guarantee in this law that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs believes that there is any guarantee in this law that the right of workers to participate in the management of the single system will be laid down. If not, then, according to my logic, the single system will become the basic rule of business in this country and the executive directors, who will be appointed, will become pure absolutes. This is certainly not what anyone in this national assembly wants. Therefore, the answer is that the law on the participation of workers in management will be the right of workers in the management of the single system. If that's the answer, then it's no big deal if we accept this amendment, which is the guardian we're talking about. However, as long as this response is not positive, it is not known whether workers in the management cooperation law will be required to participate in the single system, but it is necessary that this amendment be adopted. Thus, I think it is inevitable, in any event, that this amendment should be adopted as a protector and confirmation of what is supposed to be in the Workers' Cooperation Act or as something new, which will ensure that the Workers' Cooperation Act clearly sets out the right of workers to manage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you. Comrade Kumer, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	If I understand correctly, you said that you could also make the other amendments that we have. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	The debate is open on all four amendments to the above mentioned, i.e. Article 702.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Then I would explain the opinion to article 702 where in paragraph 5 I would replace the word "small" with the word "micro". I think that this debate has already taken place on the Committee on a number of occasions and, as this provision is now recorded in this paragraph of this compromise proposal, the participation of workers in the bodies of companies in the future should be maintained only in large and medium-sized companies, while for small companies it should be abolished. Here I must say that there is no doubt a kind of radical intervention in the system of labour participation. First of all, I'm going to take this paper when I tried to get data that they didn't know on the committee at the time, at this point or at the end of last year, in December 2005 there were 1,135 companies in Slovenia, of which 183 were small, saying that these are small companies from 11 to 50 employees, and 144 micro ones, those are up to 10 employees. Since it is almost 200 share companies with up to 50 employees who have so far, and probably not in a small number, including a two-tier management system, it is said that they had a supervisory board and administration, it is only right that this right to co-participating does not diminish them, that even in small companies up to 50 employees are also able to participate in the board of directors. We therefore propose that this restriction be only for micro-enterprises, that is to say up to 10, these are, as I said before, 144, although from the constitutional point of view of equality, of course, there is also a violation of the rights of employees in these micro-enterprises. But if we want to build the lower anchor, then we suggest that these are not small companies, but that these are micro companies, those up to 10 employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you. My friend Rugelj, I'm sorry. Did you raise your hand? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. That's what I'd say about it. This proposal by the amendment of the coalition will, of course, be supported, because it seems very good to me that every three will have one representative of the workers, I reach this proposal of the Social Democrats, at least one third, and I do not like this too much because it can lead to a very twofold situation. Even if you look a little mathematically, if the board of directors were a four-member board, at least one-third, it means at least two members, which is already half. But what if the workers have half the words in co-ordination, but they know. And this does not lead anywhere but to a smaller growth of the economy. We are all committed to making the economy grow as good as possible. And if we look at advanced countries where economic growth is high, we know what share workers have and what share owners have in management. So this - you say that Mr Mohet is not here, but if I say so again, at least one third can mean half of the employees or workers in the four-member board of directors. Then there are various proposals and things cannot be resolved. And that's not right. So I would support this coalition proposal here, I think it's very good and it's on the spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you. My colleague Potch signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There are a few questions that need to be clarified. First, the number of members of the administration will be determined by the statute, which will be decided primarily by the administration and the owners, not by the employees. As a result, they will opt for as many as will be in their interest. And to talk about how there will be any mistake, that there will be four, and then the law will require that there should be two, which will not be a third or at least a third, but a half - without worry, there will be no such mistake, and you know that, too, those who talk about it. The second reason for our amendment is that it is comparable to a two-tier management system. We are of the view that the introduction of a single management system should not result in a conscious reduction in the right to co-management of workers. And since the two-tier management system so far provides for at least one third of the supervisory boards to participate, but up to half of them can, of course, always have a final, dominant vote by the President that they cannot have an employee in this case as well; in short, to ensure at least the same scale as in companies with a two-tier management system. Otherwise, we consider that the introduction of a single system can also be a pretense, a reason, a reason to reduce the scope of the co-management system and that employees have less rights. Finally, but we will talk about this in particular, it also applies to the Labour Director, who is proposed for companies with more than 500 employees. The last question, which is first, is how we understand co-ordination. If we understand it in the way that it has now been said, "We know what happens if workers co-manage," then it is clear that a third is too much. That there is too much of any of the employees in the management system, because there is a fundamental lack of confidence in it, because it is the assumption that this will reduce the ability of the capital owner to harm the development of the company - these are the wrong assumptions, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition. The world is not so established. The Council confirms that where employment and capital are involved, there are better results, there is social peace, there is sustainable development and, therefore, there is no negative indication to assess the desire and demand and expectations for appropriate content and form of cooperation even when it comes to companies with a single performance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Rugelj applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	I think the owners already know best what is good for one company and what is bad for one company. If we didn't know that, we couldn't even become owners, that's the first. The other thing is. Of course, we would now somehow limit that these owners should look at the number of administrations they will put in their statutes. They will determine the number of administrations according to what they think best, but not that now the number will go to the count, and they will calculate how many employees will then be in the management of the participants. You know that's not going to work. We just have to provide the owners with the right conditions, they will determine the optimum, the number of members' boards will be and will be the case as is now proposed here. I think it's very fine, and whatever the marriage is, it's hard to limit the owners or up or down. But it's true that every smart owner will invite workers to co-operate, that's a fact, that's what turned out to be out there, and those smart owners do. But now it's hard for you to force them into marriage because they can turn around, the owner, I've already said, at a certain point, he's going to judge what's most appropriate for a particular company. In any case, the workers will be there, the information will be available, they will be able to advise. Of course, it's clear, there's more heads, there's more to know and there's to be taken into account all the positions, including the labour problems, we all know that. We cannot exaggerate ourselves with this, as I have already said, that in this way workers could reach half of the votes in one board of directors, but the owners should then calculate whether this is good or not, and I don't know what it is. The owners must act optimally, and I believe that they will be able to do so with such an amendment as this proposal by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you. Member Kumer spoke again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	Now I have to do a little performance with another language. Now it's some sort of occupational disease, even when we're discussing these things, which are called exorcisms. Now I really don't understand. Indeed, it is a professional disease of the ruling coalition not only the rises of workers in co-management, but, last but not least, the vision of a society, a working environment, positive energy. Listen, because these people who work in some environment and form some company that are employed are not managers and owners - yes, they have some knowledge and skills that can help this society to have a vision and a perspective and to move on. It is not possible to work here in the middle of a Chinese wall: on the one hand administrations, owners and on the other hand those who will, of course, only carry out directives and administrative plans. So, it really reminds me a little bit about being paranoid, but I'd still like to say. Listen, the whole mechanism - what I said before - how they're going to regulate the management and control of society is in the hands of shareholders, owners. They adopt the statutes, they set the rules of the game and they have this freedom perfectly. However, I hope and I think that this European practice will be passed on to Slovenian soil, not by employees, but by co-participating. Don't talk, now you're saying it shouldn't be anymore. That's not supposed to happen anymore! Because, of course, you mislead the public by saying that he will have a four-member board of directors, and you do not know or think that this four-member board of directors or a five-member or six-member board can also be made up in different ways, which also allows for the law on companies in a single system, with a non-executive, executive, and so on, that we do not speak. And also competences and so on, which is all the matter that will be prescribed in the statute and rules of the game that they can freely attribute to themselves. So once again, the unitary representation does not prejudge that they get the upper hand to obstruct the administration and so on, strengthens the simple control function that - what I said earlier - because of the convergence between a single and two-tier system in countries where they have a tradition with a single system, they even want and will correct things. In the near future, you will see, if you are still Members, then we will meet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you. Member Matjaž Han has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. When I listen to this debate, I am surprised when I listened to Mr Ruggle, given that I know him very well, that he has come down to such a level of thinking about people, about workers. Given that I do not know the case where workers would be blamed for the poor financial results, especially business operations, I therefore think that Mr Rugl's thinking is incorrect and, as Dusan has already said before me, is misleading the public. As an entrepreneur, I know what it means to have people in the company happy if people in the company are well informed about the business. And about the single system, I'd say that. We do not have this tradition in Slovenia, we do not know such a system and we know what a single system means. That is why we knew the single system mainly abroad and, above all, from the point of view of poor results. If we only remember Enron in America, where they also had a single system, and because of a poor control function, there was a situation like this. That is why I think it is the least we can do to put at least one third of the workers in the company's management. This seems to me to be the least this government can do for these people, for these workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	I really need to explain some things to Mr. Han. I did not underestimate, by any means, this participation of workers in management by word of mouth. I've only given my opinion on what this proposal of yours means at least one third. This proposal can also mean one half. And I can prove that to you here at any time, if there are four members, that's half the members. It's a fact, and it's hard to get over it. As for the other, what self-governance means, I do not think it is necessary to explain in particular what self-governance means for economic development. Nowhere in the world has this happened where workers had a majority in management. That didn't work out anywhere. Of course, now you see what has happened to all these socialist countries. Now we're going to some new system. I'm not saying that it's not good governance, in Western countries, even knowingly giving workers the opportunity to be shareholders, to have certain influences, the one, the other to stimulate them. But it is not up to the workers themselves to decide, and of course the owner must decide. I guess that makes sense to everyone. And you want us to have a chance to get to half of them. Look, this is unacceptable. The Management Board must decide for itself which number of members of the Management Board is optimal for their company, but not on the basis of these requests. If only four members would fit them, why would they now prevent them from having four members of the Governing Board? But, of course, according to your proposal, they're going to have to start looking into it, and they're going to tell her, and we can't have four of them, and then half of the workers can be in there. That's not right. And I don't think this proposal of yours is good, so I won't support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, no, I'll give you a replica. I'll just read who's after you first. So, the first will have the word of his colleague Han as a replica, followed by his colleague Potrč, Barbara Žgajner Tavš and colleague Kontic. Did I let anyone go? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Han, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Well, since Mr Ruglj is no longer in the hall, I would only remind him of his own case in his congregation, when only one person has made decisions in certain matters, this is the case in the case of Morning. That's why I find this kind of talk by Mr Ruggle inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you. I'm giving my word to my colleague Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I understand that Mr Kumer, Han and I spoke because Mr Rugelj said in his debate: "You know what it is if workers have too much rights." I simply do not accept this "know" and therefore even accepted its debate as an extremely unfavorable system of co-management. However, to talk about co-management, not self-governance, that is probably what Mr Rugelj knows. The fact that he has coats or bad memories is another thing. We are now talking about a co-management system and unfortunately it is too small and not too much. And I recognize, as Social Democrats, that it would be established to the greatest extent possible, not to the detriment of capital, not to the detriment of the owners, not to the detriment of development, but to the detriment of co-responsibility to develop beyond capital, because they are much more motivated if they participate. That is why, I think, it is a shame to stress the negative elements of our proposal, which does not speak otherwise than that at least a third should cooperate. And we are confident that this cooperation at least a third will not harm businesses. We have said, however, that the system of determining the number of administrations in company statutes will help guide us. But I'd say one more thing, which has to do with it. I agree and do not argue that the administrations and owners of "a priori" are not to cooperate with workers. No, it is not true, although, of course, very, very positive experience in the last ten years in Slovenia in this regard is not too much, previously there are few. Even if there's no bad experience, it's not true. The first view of most administrations on urgent changes and adaptation to the new economic system and market economy in Slovenia was - what was it like: to come to the factory as a new director, to find that there are three or five programmes, many too, one or two to quit, to keep only one, which is 100 per cent profitable and the other to send the workers on the road. This was a long time of understanding the market economy in Slovenia. Thank God it's not like that anymore, thank God it's not like that anymore. However, it took a long time - and that is also why we did not try very hard, nor did the administration, to achieve less unnecessary forgiveness. But something was necessary for us to understand, because companies had to do business and focus on the market, the one that was on the former Yugoslav market had to look for some new opportunities and it was not possible to find them all overnight, but I want to say, in advance, every manager, every owner already wants cooperation - it is not true. It is therefore wise for the country to give it some frameworks in which it will have to deal with specific issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has been reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Allow me to highlight what we have already heard between the lines today. This is the psychological-social or social impact of information or the right to co-management; we talked about co-management today. Last but not least, research - in those best companies, it also comes from Slovenia - shows how important the right to co-management is. In this way, workers develop a sense of belonging to the company, which means a better social climate and, last but not least, a better impact of work. I am afraid, you know, that all these changes or insubordinations by the government and the coalition Members are indeed going towards total liberalisation without any regulation aimed at the protection of workers' rights. And let me remind you that there is a very great resemblance between anarchy and democracy. What differs between the two is in the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you. I give my word to my fellow Member, Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. After this discussion, which I have heard from a coalition Member, I could conclude that the employees of a company or so-called workers are merely some sort of non-digare that is necessary in the production process, because we do not yet know how to organise production in such a way that workers are not needed at this time; to emerge from the co-management system and from the co-decision system is the objective you are pursuing. And to talk about that, because you know what it's like where the workers decide, you'd even agree with that. It's good where the workers decide. That's what practice from abroad tells us. We will not invent warm water in this area, but we are really trying to open the pipe primarily on the cold side, as a cold shower for employees who want and should have the right to be involved in co-management - we are talking about co-management and not self-management. Co-operation is one that guarantees the successful further development of companies in our area, that is also in Slovenia. I have bad experience with this coalition already in the proposal for employee participation in profit, where we have also talked about the role of knowledge, the role of experience when we talked about how we have somehow found a conflict of capital on the one hand and the conflict of employees on the other, but it is an artificial conflict that we are creating. This is a matter that goes hand in hand, bringing about better development and thinking about the development of these individual companies. Where workers are involved in decision-making, they are known to be more interested in the successful operation of this company, that they are more of a member of this company and that this needs to be further built. The previous panellists discussed how the governing body would be composed, how they would organise control, but all of this was a matter for the congregation, all of this was a matter for owners, and workers would not have an important role or employment. It is therefore right to write in the law what belongs to them within this process of establishment. And if they decide that there are three, one third is very clear if they decide that four will have some problems, but only those who do not trust employees who do not want employees to play an important role in deciding on further development. If they find that this is bad for society - and I hope that these will be very few - they will decide that five will be in this and we will talk more easily about who has the majority within this body. So, contrary to the fact that we are reducing the rights of employees to co-decision on the future of their company or the company where they are employed. Where they decide, the results will certainly be better. And speaking of this, it actually encouraged me to have this debate where employees will have more power to decide, but already to know what will happen, which is inappropriate for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. I give my word to a Christian Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. When we hear a little bit about self-governance, co-management and so on, of course, there are still major differences, even greater between the self-governance and capitalism that we have, we have come into it, and the sacrament has become the property, and this is the one that, after all, everyone who has come to this property, I believe that, on the right path, will certainly be able to best decide how this property will lead. I think it's perfectly clear here, I'm from some personal experience, but I'm aware, I'm still on the point that co-management and that workers in some company - right that there are involved in the story. And my principle is, I was like that, and I invited people and I worked with them, so that the story could be even more successful. If the owner does not invite people to co-operate in the company, it will certainly be a success, as I estimate, even in this time we live, capitalism is probably more difficult to achieve, certain goals or for a longer period of time. But my experience is one that seems important to me from this point of view, and maybe it has no direct connection. The less it affects the state's ownership, the business of companies, the more successful it will be. As a rule, the country is not successful, and setting certain limits, and this is how you have to do it, and I think it's a bad trip. I agree, however, that it is a fear that in some societies, in some mediums, these stories may fly out and will not get the effect that you colleagues, the Social Democrats, want, which I fully understand, also your Members from this point of view, that the right of co-management may be reduced here, which will therefore cause certain damage, probably to society, owners and managers of this company. But that should be judged by the people who run responsible societies and are also appointed as owners or as company managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I did not intend to report to this amendment once again, but in view of the excruciating debates of some of my colleagues; I can comfort them that the Slovenian Democratic Party and all of the coalition's signatories support co-ordination for a simple reason, because we see synergies and even greater economic growth. No extremes are good. It is not good that there would be no co-ordination and that self-governance would be wrong. Some middle way. This is exactly what we're trying to do with this law: settle some middle way. Therefore, once again, we support the amendment of the coalition, and we think that this will achieve the synergies that we expect in co-management of the workers in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you. I give my word to the Master of the Dread. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you. I will talk about the participation of workers in management so that there are no difficulties in distinguishing between self-management and co-management. However, I advise you to look at industrial democracy, where there is talk of enlightened capitalism and, among other things, it says, "a society of knowledge is a society of employees." We used to work for the masters, one kind or another, tomorrow we'll be working with knowledge, both workers with heads and heads of workers. The employees with knowledge become the owners of the production assets again, as they say in the old ones, without them are capital, machines, buildings, etc., dead. I advise you to read something about enlightened capitalism. I also advise you to look into the comparative review that the Social Democrats ordered in our research and documentation sector when we were preparing a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in governance. This review shall be addressed to the Cooperation of Employees in the Management and Control Authorities of Companies in the EU and Norway. I will not be able to say everything because this is too much, but on the third page there is a table which clearly shows that the table shows that the most common unitary participation of employees in the bodies of companies is. Of course, when this is legal, as is the case for both single and double-tier management and control systems of companies. But the figures will be clear because the EU and Norway have 26 cases covered and in 12 of 26 workers or employees have extensive rights to participate in private and state companies. It is simply that we will have to accept slowly, that some of the concepts that we are willing to give them from some past times have a different content and a different position in modern society, whether it is a European social charter, whether it is the role of trade unions, whether it is the rights of workers or their participation in management. Of course, I support the amendments of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the successors of a party called KP are teaching us about modern capitalism. When I went to school and your predecessor was in power, they taught us how to use workers in the west, if they didn't get paid, but to get a bear and so on. That means we're making progress in this country all together. If you look to the west, it's very good, sometimes you're not, today it's things [[....]] There's something else I'd like to say with this amendment. I'm not gonna take another call because I didn't deal with this marriage, but it's something. We are specialists in this country when it is necessary to write the law in such a way that it is incomprehensible and that it causes confusion in practice. There will be no misunderstanding that someone here is trying to prevent workers from being involved in co-ordination. And even under this law in the single system, of course, they are involved. But to write that one-third of the board members have - what does that mean when the board of directors is a four-member board? Why don't we write the law more clearly? Let's say on three, that's one, on four, is that two? One third of four is - how much? 1.33. So, such amendments - you can laugh at your colleagues, but such amendments cause the marriage to be unclear, then someone has to explain what it means. And that we meet by pressing the matter against the administrative court, by interpreting what it is, or by accepting here in this national assembly of authentic explanations as to what we wanted. I don't know if you're trying to write such amendments as to simplify things, make things as complicated as possible, then explain peacefully how the system is ineffective, what impossible laws are and so on. I agree, and I would also support this amendment, but why didn't you write it clearly? Let one of you who suggested this explain to me what one third of four means and what one third of five means. [[Ad from the bench: It says at least a third.]] It says at least one third. I'm reading it again, at least one third. Then why don't we write exactly one third of the marriage? Because you can't because you want it to always be so that you can interpret it one way or another. And because of such laws, we have 500,000 cases in this country today in a court of law that have not experienced epilogues because we have such complicated legislation. And since you have been in power for as long as you have, of course, you have made a significant contribution to this legislation. Now we are in the process of adopting these laws so that they are clear. And for that reason, the amendment is essentially unacceptable. And you're showing this as a fact that now it's a government coalition against workers' co-ordination. Of course it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has been announced for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I respect the words of the Secretary of State when she said that it was not a discussion of these numbers, the number of members. In a way, she was going to say that she was also unproductive, and I'm sticking to it. And I won't. But I'd like to say about property as a shrine and the owners of capitalists. [[...]] We have transitional capital owners, we are still in transition. We still have 50 percent or more of state property. And please, we are doing this law, the law that will regulate it, this is the law on the participation of employees in management, we are still working during the transition. We don't have a tradition yet. And, listen, those who were self-governing yesterday are owners and capitalists today, and I'm co-governing. Therefore, allow the possibility to ensure that employees have at least a third of the possibility to co-operate during this transitional period. But when this is over, like I said before, then we can talk about it differently. However, I have previously pointed out that in countries with a tradition of a single system, due to the convergence between one and two-tier, they seek to increase the number in that part of the board of directors, where there are non-executive members of the board of directors, it is said that the supervisory function is to reduce the dominant power of administrative functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. I give the floor to Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	I didn't want to discuss this amendment any more, but I did. The speaker in front of me, from the coalition party, mentioned how we are progressing under this government. Allow me to read just one sentence from an important government document [[I believe you know him, coalition MPs.]] "The government is concerned about obtaining formal information." Why? Because he fears that this part of the workforce will be able to use them to blackmail employers. I am also afraid that opposition to this amendment or regulation, which is aimed at protecting workers or giving them a single system of co-administration, is, after all, against this opposition in the direction of these strategic decisions or government plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you. I no longer see among the Members the desire for a debate. I give the floor to a representative of the government. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to point out something that I had already said in the beginning, and it was obviously too much. You have a compromise proposal on the table. So you have a proposal on the table supported by workers' representatives or trade unions. It is more than obvious from this debate that what is acceptable to the representatives of workers or trade unions is not acceptable to the proposer or group of Members, which I am told is strange. I think there should be a bigger problem in these negotiations. As far as small companies are concerned, I am still obliged to do so, and as far as the involvement of workers in small companies is concerned, you have a compromise proposal on the table. In accordance with Article 261 of the Company Act, which was in force until now and during the previous government or coalition, the company had to have a supervisory board only if the company’s core capital was more than 410 million dollars, if the average number of employees was greater than 500, if the company was established successfully, if the company was a public company or if the number of shareholders was greater than 100. In other cases, the establishment of the Supervisory Board was not compulsory. In these cases, there was no obligation under the applicable legislation to regulate the participation of workers in the management of the company. Now you suggest that everything that is above 10 employees be regulated. We believe that a provision which, from a comprehensive range of companies committed to co-decision of workers in the management of small companies whose key characteristic is that they have less than 50 employees and limited incomes and limited company assets follows this purpose. At the same time, given that we have heard comparable solutions, I would like to point out that we can give you a table because, as our representatives have already warned on the national council, you have insufficient data and you lack a column about exceptions or notes missing. Even if we compare this with other Member States - in fact, it is often used to apply the labour participation threshold of employees, for example, Sweden 25, Slovakia 50, Finland 150, the Czech Republic 50, Luxembourg 1000 and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 20th agenda or at the latest at 7 p.m. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on classified information. The expected time of the joint debate is 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. In the meantime, I also welcome the representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u157	Dear Members and Members! The practice of implementing the law on classified data at national level has shown that certain solutions are needed to complement or upgrade the national system for handling and protecting classified data. The proposed amendments and additions to the law are primarily aimed at improving the effectiveness of the system and consequently improving the security of national and foreign classified data. Amendments to the law shall specify the role of the information officer and the procedure in which the public interest in disclosure is identified. The authorised person will have to scrutinise the classified data strictly once a year and to assess every three years whether there is still a need for their confidentiality. This solution ensures that there will be no unnecessary accumulation of classified documents, as rapid changes often change the circumstances under which harmful consequences or levels of secrecy are determined. Content, the safety of this verification shall be extended to the determination of any reservations concerning the authorisation of access to classified information relating to diseases and mental disorders which could endanger the safe treatment of classified data. More specifically, the information to be provided by the audited person for the purposes of determining his or her over-indebtedness or circumstances related to his or her financial situation is specified. An essential novelty means the proposed arrangements for the granting of a security authorisation to an economic company or organisation involved in the procurement of classified information. So far, regulation makes it legally impossible for companies and organisations to obtain a certificate before they decide to participate in international procurement contracts relating to the handling of classified data, which significantly reduces their competitiveness. With the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, three authorities are competent to issue a security authorisation to the organisation. These are the Ministry of Defence, the police and the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. A security authorisation shall be issued to the organisation in accordance with the rules of validity of five years, except for the execution of one contract only. This will increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in international secret information tenders, as a requirement for obtaining tender documents has often been issued. The proposed amendments to the law introduce inspections in the field of classified data. In the bodies, companies and organisations, the inspection will be carried out by the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, except in the defence area where it will be carried out by the Republic of Slovenia Defence Inspectorate. This will create conditions for uniform inspection. The national security authority shall be specified in the amendments to the law. This is the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Secret Data. In fact, it is the legal determination of the tasks performed by the Office today on the basis of a 2002 government decision. The National Security Authority shall be the focal point between the national security structure and the NATO security structure, represented by the NATO Security Office and the NATO Security Committee. The National Security Authority is also the central body of NATO's concept of security at Member State level. The Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Data Security Treaty obliges all parties to establish, from existing or newly formed national authorities, a national security authority for the activities of NATO that carries out security measures in the field of classified data. Comparable regulation is also at European Union level. Each Member State shall designate its national security authority responsible for the protection of classified information. This was a summary of the main proposed amendments and the amendment of the law. The adoption of the proposed law will increase the effectiveness of the system and ensure greater security of national and foreign classified data. Dear Members and Members! I suggest you adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thanks for the extra explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Ambassador Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law at its 17th regular session. The representative of the applicant presented in the supplementary explanation in the introduction the fundamental reasons for preparing amendments and supplementing the law which he classified in several sets. In particular, the amendments shown by practice concern procedural provisions governing the security inspection of persons and the delimitation of the powers of the authorities competent for the authorisation of access to classified information, the definition of the competent authority and the procedure for the authorisation of a natural person, the establishment of inspection, the harmonisation of the law on classified information with the provisions of the law on offences and others. He also highlighted in particular the solutions to the draft law relating to the national security authority in the field of secret authorities and classified data. He stressed that the national security authority was the focal point between the national security structure and the security structure of NATO and the European Union. The proposer explained that, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, he had drawn up some proposals for amendments, which he had also proposed to the Committee on Admission. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that in most cases the applicant had followed the comments made in their opinion and had drafted, as was said, amendments to the Committee. It further drew attention to comments on Articles 35 and 36 of the draft law, which the applicant did not take into account. The provisions relating to national security authorities are within the competence of that authority. In general, support for the bill was expressed in the debate, as it aims to contribute to better regulation of the field of classified data, and several questions were also raised to the applicant regarding the issue under consideration, which concerned questions relating to security review questionnaires or the need for individual elements of these questionnaires. The representative of the applicant replied to the questions raised below and stressed that the proposed regime for the verification process for obtaining access to classified information was in line with the concept of the verification process within the framework of NATO and the European Union, and that the persons to be screened would also have access to classified information from NATO and the EU under this law. He explained what the security questionnaire was and that the security questionnaires covered such content or verification of data on the basis of which it would be possible to determine whether an individual was trustworthy for accessing classified information. The credibility of one person is also demonstrated by data such as dependence on alcohol or other addictions, as well as the financial obligations of the individual or the guarantees taken. He also stressed that the bill does not have any additional financial implications for the state budget. At the end of the meeting, the Committee adopted the proposed amendments to the Committee, as well as all the articles of the law together, and proposes them to be adopted by this assembly as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Article 39(2), provides that everyone shall be entitled to receive information of a public nature for which he has a legitimate interest in the law, except in cases provided for by law. The law on classified information, the novelty of which is being considered today, deals with this particular area. The law is therefore of paramount importance, since the inappropriate setting of limits on access to such information could either constitute a disguise of irregularities in the work of certain national authorities, or could jeopardise the benefits of our country. The proposal for a law regulates a number of matters, and it is particularly important to regulate the procedure, to establish the powers of the various authorities to access classified information to individuals and organisations, and to regulate inspection of the implementation of the rules, in particular those governing the field of classified data. The extension of the law in these areas is, in our view, appropriate and possible shortcomings will, of course, be demonstrated by the practice itself and will need to be corrected accordingly. For the Slovenian People's Party, it is also important to have arrangements to verify the current or the need for a certain degree of secrecy. It is clear that the need for certain data to be kept secret is changing over time and that some information that is still ongoing is probably no longer secret after a while. The new regime for the verification of confidentiality will thus allow the documents or data to be verified directly and, indeed, only those documents in which this is justified will be more transparently accessible under the relevant confidentiality regime. So far, we have not had the so-called industrial security in Slovenia, which has been completely constrained by our company or organisations that had an interest in running for public procurement at the international level. The law also follows the requirements or guidelines of the EU and NATO. As I said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law is appropriate and we will fully support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we do not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on classified information. It is right to make order in this area, the reasons for the adoption of this law are perfectly clear. This is a matter of change, this is the most encouraging finding that has been made in practice, it is a matter of more precise delimitation of the powers of the authorities, it is a matter of establishing inspection supervision as a novelty, and it is a matter of complementing the arrangements for the transmission of classified data. Nevertheless, some questions or concerns are asked in the Slovenian National Party, and can also be taken as a good advice, a recommendation for action. The objectives can be seen as essential three: an improved efficient system, security of classified data and personal security of persons. In the system of work itself, we are confronted with this law with a questionnaire that we understand is necessary in order to determine on this basis who can, cannot or cannot have access to classified information. However, it seems to us that this questionnaire is somewhat - very much needed for some corrections. In fact, for example, we still don't understand, although we have some answers, what does the question mean if you ask someone or contact them, let's say, what other intelligence service - clearly, even if it is, he will say no. Some similar things are that I do not know if they are suitable for this questionnaire, but we are most surprised, on the one hand, even though it is clear that this questionnaire gives great attention also to the financial situation, the creditworthiness and so on, making it feel that the person who is financially weak is not fit for a certain mandate, function, information, or anything where I get comparisons with my colleagues in this National Assembly. Because by this logic we should be very well-funded, because if we are not and if we are counting on to become stronger financially in this national assembly, then we are just as unreliable, corrupt and so on. These are the concerns I have to make because this is the conclusion of the Slovenian National Party. Well, there's another area that we don't think is very convenient - or, too few criteria to determine when the public interest in disclosing classified information is so strong, it's so large that data that's classified, top secret, is removed and revealed. Because, last but not least, we are at odds with ourselves because secrecy or strict confidentiality of data is because these data are classified and they are also supposed to remain, except in reality, severe exceptional situations or serious exceptional cases, which in the law itself, at least after seeing them, are not precisely defined. It only says that the government considers that the public interest in disclosing classified information is so great that it is disclosed. For example, I will give a recent story without condemning anyone, preventing soldiers from going to NATO, by acting on Minister Erjavac and so on, which has been shown in very ambiguably. And such a story can be repeated if the government can disclose and assess in itself that public interest is stronger. Of course, it is also a matter of whether the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plays the role of the national security authority. It was said we were transitory. Is this true, then, that he is merely temporary, and then who will be the one who will continue to perform this function? As has already been said, the Slovenian National Party does not oppose the law on amendments and additions to the law on classified information.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Vili Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we are confident that the adoption of the law will not result in any very noticeable changes in the everyday life of our population, but for whom too, perhaps. This does not prevent us from judging that this marriage is important or that it may deter us from supporting it for some reason. So we provide our votes in support of this bill, especially because we are convinced that the information, particularly in the last period, has become a central occupation, so to speak; without them, without them, without information, there is simply no more information. It is not because we cannot make an appropriate decision in the security field, not in the social, not in the economic, not in the political and not in any other area. It is therefore also important to regulate such data in different laws. And a whole series of people could list those that are more or less directly concerned with security or "hiding" under terms, data. So the need for access to public information is probably indisputable. In order not to give the State authorities in particular the opportunity to conceal anything, I would say what to prevent, say, appropriate decisions based on certain necessary data in order to avoid illegality in order to remedy possible irregularities and so on. However, there is also a need for a certain restriction on access to such information either at a personal level or at a level relating to the protection of the interests of the State or public interest. From here also this need for confidentiality of certain data. What and how to protect under the symbol of secrecy, to whom to enable these data to be obtained, how to test these persons, how to monitor the implementation of this law and even a number of other provisions brings this addition to the law that we are currently discussing. We believe that we can attract what the proposer has provided in his introduction, to increase efficiency, to improve comparison or compatibility, to harmonise with Europe and with NATO, we can also attract better protection for persons who are given access to classified data and for some other reasons why this proposal has been drafted. Because we are attracted to these reasons because we consider that there is also an appropriate response to these reasons, we will support the proposal of law in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Before joining the EU and NATO, Slovenia had to meet one of the fundamental conditions, namely the establishment of an appropriate system for dealing with classified data. With the adoption of the Secret Data Act, the Republic of Slovenia has not adopted its novelty in 2003 in line with the standards of these organisations, which have also confirmed that our country is trustworthy in this area. The current practice and implementation of the Secret Data Act have shown that certain solutions are needed to complement or upgrade the national system for handling and protecting classified data. The amendments and additions proposed by this amendment to the Act are primarily aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the system and consequently improving the security of national and foreign classified data. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the representative stressed in particular that the current law has few procedural provisions to regulate the security checks on persons prior to the issue of a permit for access to classified information. The authorities responsible for issuing licences are thus bound by the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which are too general. It is therefore necessary to regulate this matter in this law. The representative of the applicant also highlighted the provisions of the proposal relating to the national security authority in the field of classified data. This is the focal point between the national security structure and that of NATO and the EU. It is a matter of legal definition of the tasks already performed by the Office for the Protection of Secret Data. We all know that handling classified information is very important and requires a great deal of responsibility. However, we also know that there have been multiple abuses in our country of this institution, and it is important to stress the moral aspect of handling classified information that no law can prescribe. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I appeal to all those who have access to such data to deal with them with the greatest degree of caution and responsibility and to have their national interest lead them. Support for the bill was expressed by the members during the discussion at the meeting of the home working body. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group fully supports the proposed solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u169	Your Honor! The law we are adopting today is, in fact, a form of coordination at first sight, but that is not the point. Before we joined the Treaty of Accession into NATO and before entering the European Union, we have already properly regulated legislation on these issues. At first glance, it is necessary to regulate this rather restrictively, quite broadly, to cover all options and to prevent any unauthorised access to data from being used too widely by the institutions of confidentiality or the protection of such data. Although I am sorry, the possibility in - I think that in Article 6, following the example of Scandinavian countries, where, on the one hand, they have this broader confidentiality or cover material of a broader nature in confidence, on the other hand, they exclude those issues that need to be protected in particular. I think that, in principle, as much as possible and most things should actually be accessible to at least the authorised public, and here is the limit on how much what the authorities think is right is necessary to protect and not allow access to those who are otherwise representatives of some authorities. I'm asking a serious question. In fact, only one person in the National Assembly has the power to access or access all information transmitted to the Republic of Slovenia by the NATO Union. Why? Because in that chapter, when this law also speaks about the verification of individuals who would have the right to have access to this information and according to their judgment, we Members and Members of Parliament, all of us, have been given to give in, in sayings, to "review" and no one has done so. Why am I talking about this? Because this verification and this collection of data is so sensitive and touching each one individually and also those that should be indirectly listed in this security check would be stored in some records, etc. and at least three should be indicated. I think that we will have to examine further the extent to which that part of the legislation, including the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that all the data produced in the Republic of Slovenia and processed by the most legislative, executive and other branches of government and other institutions are subject to the right of access. In the second provision, we have laid down that all treaties and all European Union legal acts are also an integral part of internal law and are directly applicable. Here, when we talk about data on the relationship between NATO and activities in this part, because it's a classic contract, we didn't do it. And here's one big breakthrough, one big grey fox, I don't know how it's used in Slovenia in other organs, but theoretically it can happen, and I also think that it's practically happening that an official at the Ministry, but literally an official, I'm not talking about a minister, I'm not talking about a secretary, I can give to a document, to some conversation -- and we had the subject of controversy 14 days ago in this assembly, namely that some document is classified because he was talking about matters under Nate's jurisdiction with another official and of course Members of this document have no access to it. But this is another discussion, probably for the upgrade of this law or the arrangement elsewhere, but this is touched by the way it is, of course, about accessing or checking those who are supposed to access classified information. Otherwise, there will be a parliamentary club or Members of Parliament and Members of the Liberal Democracy this law [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This is important material, which essentially means a derogation from the fundamental principle of access to information of a public nature and which constitutes an obstacle to the functioning of democratic institutions and also to public control of the functioning of power. At the same time, however, such restrictions are necessary where they are reasonably necessary, because without this it is not possible to operate the country within its own framework or to link the country to many international institutions, especially NATO and the authorities involved in the intelligence and police field. Whether and how well the situation between the request for public and the requirement for confidentiality is adequately defined shows belief. I would not hope to say that we are able to fully and independently assess this Member and Members, but as the amendments and amendments to the law are prepared, before I think that we have adopted them three years ago, we must assume that they are prepared properly and that they help to resolve those issues that have not been best addressed, but not to do anything to undermine this fundamental principle of the functioning of a democratic society, that is to say access to public information. I think that in the case of the changes and additions to the proposal, it is important to require periodic verification of the confidentiality marks. This gives the competent authority the opportunity to assess after one year, after three years and, similarly, whether the circumstances giving the authority the authority the authority the authority the authority to declare a document confidential are still in force. Secondly, it is important that specific procedures are provided, when and in which case, when public requests are made to communicate certain information are identified as confidential, how to assess what is of greater interest: whether there is still an interest in the protection of confidentiality or the interest of reporting to the public. A special procedure is envisaged, a special commission proposing to the government to decide on this. The representatives of the Ministry who has declared confidentiality shall not participate in this committee. It is important, in my view, that also the accessibility of our companies, organisations, is envisaged to cooperate in order to ensure that they can have access to confidential data, as this is important for their participation in many international public calls. Finally, it is right that much more precise procedures are envisaged than they have been so far. That is why we will support the changes and additions to the law in our parliamentary group. In the end, that's all you want to say. Nevertheless, given the positive assessment and the necessity of this law, it is right to say that the law was drawn up in a way in which the legislature had to give its suggestions to half of the articles, which the government had adopted fortunately. However, this also shows that there is a general consensus in laws that are not politically delicacy and where there is, in fact, a general consensus on the need for their adoption, there is a likelihood, as well as a proven practice, that they are often prepared by the Government on a case-by-case basis. That is why this is an additional reason that requires us to pay very close attention to this aspect, and that even when it comes to issues that do not seem to be most appropriate to us politically, we give a little more emphasis to this legal care, because otherwise we are adopting rules that are not [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Run. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The determination, protection, access to and termination of this data status in the field of public authorities has been systematically regulated by the Secret Data Act. This is information relating to public security, defence, foreign affairs, intelligence and security, and therefore it is important material. The data shall be determined in secret in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by the law. This is neither and must not be in the hands of, or the arbitrary decision of, the authority or the authorised person responsible for determining the degree of confidentiality of the data. It is also possible to change and terminate the level of secrecy only in accordance with the law. The general principle of public access to data and information from public authorities and holders of public powers, which is otherwise based on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot apply absolutely and without restriction. In view of the sensitivity of these contents, it is therefore necessary to specify more precisely the procedures for access to these data, which, according to the other provisions of the existing law, have been slightly malnourished. The proposal for a law that we have under consideration today is thus more specifically governed by the security review of persons prior to the issue of a permit to access classified information, in particular with regard to the eligibility to submit an application for authorisation, its powers at individual stages, and a more precise definition of the responsibility and competence of the applicant as well as of the verified person. The procedure for the security verification of persons who have contact with classified information depends, of course, on the level of confidentiality involved. It will certainly help to facilitate the assessment by a change in the direction of more precise identification of certain data to be transmitted by a person in the verification to the decision-making body. With the proposed novelty, we will introduce an inspection in the field of classified data, which is not yet exposed to defence. In this area it will also be exercised in the future by the Republic of Slovenia’s Defence Inspectorate and will have the authority to control in other areas of the Interior Inspectorate. As practice has shown, the approach to the implementation of the rules has so far been quite different and we support the solution in our parliamentary group following the establishment of uniform supervision. The same is true, so we also support the change in the area of industrial security. So far, the legal person has been somehow wet, formally disabled to obtain a certificate before deciding to participate in an invitation to tender, on an international invitation to tender, of course, relating to the handling of classified information. The proposed amendments regulate this procedure in a new way, in particular with a view to allowing for greater competitiveness and greater competitiveness of our economy in internationalCIs. In New Slovenia we also support the new and other changes brought by this change and we will fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendments to the amended law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 3 March 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Establishment of Communities and the Determination of Their Areas. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Minister, Dr. Ivan Žagar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted, on the basis of a procedure for the establishment of new municipalities and the change in their area provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and establishing their areas, which is now under urgent procedure. In the preliminary procedure for the establishment of municipalities, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decree on the call for a referendum and the establishment of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas by which a referendum was held on 29 January 2006 to determine the will of the population. In view of the outcome of the referendum vote, the Government has proposed the establishment of new municipalities or a change in the area of municipalities only in the case of positive referendums, even in cases where the National Assembly has established a separate determination of the results within one referendum area. Thus, the positive will of the electorate to establish 12 new municipalities and one minor change in the territory of the municipalities was expressed. At the January referendum, however, proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Ankaran-Croatia and Bizelj were rejected. In the referendum area, the present municipality Dobrova-Polhov Gradec voters did not vote on the division of the municipality into two new ones because they opposed the establishment of the municipality of Polhov Gradec and supported the establishment of a new municipality of Dobrova. In the referendum area for the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice by expulsion from the municipality of Laško, most voters voted in favour of the establishment of a new municipality. However, in its resolution on the invitation to tender for the referendum, the National Assembly provided that the outcome of the vote in the area of the local community of Zidani Most, where the majority of voters voted against the establishment of a new municipality, should also be determined separately within the referendum area. In the event of the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice without the territory of the local community of Zidani Most, the area of the municipality of Laško would be territorially uncultivated. Given that the voters in both cases did not support the proposal to establish a new congregation, the government did not propose the establishment of the congregation of the Roman Toplice. On the basis of the positive results of the referendum, the government proposes the establishment of 12 new municipalities to the National Assembly: Apache, Circulana, Kostanjevica na Krka, Makola, Mokronog, Trebelno, Poljčane, Renče, Vogrsko, Centre ob Draga, Straža, Council of Trojica in Slovenski gorica, Sveti Tomaž and Šmarješke Toplice. In addition, it is proposed that the settlement of Ostrovica from the municipality of Divača and its accession to the municipality of Hrpelje-Kozina be selected. I propose to the Members and Members that they adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Paul Rupar, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished present! At its 8th urgent meeting, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and reception, proposing that the law submitted be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The members of the Committee were informed of the type of material, both the opinion of the committees of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the report of the Republic Election Commission on the outcome of the referendum, the letters of the municipalities and the inhabitants from the respective areas of the proposed new municipalities and the letter of individuals and groups of civil society. The Committee agreed that the proposal for a law was prepared in accordance with a legally defined way of taking into account the expressed will of the people in individual referendum areas, in view of the way in which the municipality changed its territory or the establishment of the new municipality. The bill proposes the establishment of new municipalities according to the Committee's assessment of the results of the referendum presented in its report by the Republican Election Commission and proposes the establishment of 12 new municipalities. The debate highlighted the question of the proposed new Municipality of Mokronog-Trebelno, where 54% of voters voted in favour at the referendum for the new municipality. On the basis of the referendum outcome, the government also proposed the establishment of a new congregation of Trebelno-Mokronog. However, the referendum will of the voters in the area of the local community of Rome Toplice remains unfulfilled, as the referendum outcome, which was determined separately in the area of the local community of Zidani Most, as part of the referendum area for the establishment of the new municipality of Rome Toplice, was negative. Thus, it is not proposed in the law of the establishment of the congregation of Rome Toplice. With the amendment rejected by the Committee, it was proposed that this congregation should be set up separately. The Committee considered, like the Government, that without the Wall Bridge the proposed area for the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice did not meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities, since the remaining part of the municipality of Laško, from which the new municipality was to be excluded, would no longer be territorially linked. The representative of the legislative and legal service also felt that such a proposal was contrary to the law. In the debate on the procedure for establishing new municipalities, which is now reflected, inter alia, in the interpretation of the referendum results, it was clear to the applicants that they did not give timely warning to each area within the proposed new municipalities in order to determine their referendum will separately. In this way people are now supposed to feel unwittingly involved in the new congregation, even though they will be established at the final positive referendums in accordance with the law. With regard to the above, it was explained that Members and Members of the National Assembly had the opportunity to propose a separate definition of the referendum outcome with the amendments, not least in the village of Pozljina as part of the referendum area for the establishment of the municipality of Izlaka. The discussion highlighted, inter alia, the need to take into account that the referendum areas are to be determined on the basis of an assessment by the applicants of the common interests of the population in the individual areas, which in each case cannot be fully foreseen in advance and are clearly visible only after the referendum has been held. The referendum outcome shall be considered as an entire referendum area and not as an individual electorate, taking into account the majority of the voter's will, in all cases where the decision did not provide for a separate determination of their outcome in an area. In the debate, some also rejected the political backgrounds of proposing new municipalities in a way of predicting both in the previous proceedings and after the referendum, which, of course, is a matter of discussion by interested parties and certainly not a debate on the Committee. In view of the fact that the Committee has adopted all the articles of the bill but has not adopted any amendments, I propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. Now all the peripety, the story that took place in connection with the establishment of new congregations, is before the last act, would have been said in the theater. It all started in July 2005, when we made it clear in the Slovenian National Party that we were against the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, specifically Article 13a, which facilitated the conditions for acquisition or the creation of new municipalities, and the story continued through the meetings of the Local Self-Government Committee. We have warned that in Slovenia there is already too much violation of the law on local self-government, which says that the municipality can be where there are 5,000 or more inhabitants. The limit was reduced to 2 000, under certain conditions, and this was a green light for the desire to establish new municipalities. What was happening was that the National Assembly had reached out to referendum areas. At the same time, the government promised to respect the referendum will. The referendums were held and 12 municipalities were to be formed according to the proposal of this law, from Apache in the first place, listed by alphabet, to Šmarješke Toplice. Of course, if we look at the number of people in these municipalities, there are not 5,000 in any of them, the most people in Poljčany, who will become 4,000, are all less. Good. What have we got now? We have received or will receive 12 new congregations, and at the same time we will get one where, specifically, I speak Mokronog, Trebelno, where the citizens of Trebelna are dissatisfied, even yesterday I think they were before the National Assembly and protested, but because there was just one referendum environment. On the other hand, we have citizens of the Wall Bridge and the Roman Toplice, where the referendum was separated, where the will of the Roman Toplice was clearly expressed for, and there is once again dissatisfaction because, despite the clearly expressed referendum will of the congregation of the Roman Toplice. So, where the will and referendum are shown, there is no congregation, and where there is indignation, there is a congregation. The government said, yes, what they wanted, if they had done in particular at the Roman spas, the Walla Bridge of two referendum areas, that they could not help it, but that such a decision or decree could have been different. Even there, if we counted all the electorates and voters and the results, the outcome would be 52% for and would be a new congregation. Whatever the case, the comments on the way to work to this day, of course including what is going to happen today, were enormous, the discontent was even greater, it was done in a spirit. But if not, at least in the Slovenian National Party, despite the great opposition all the time, even after July 2005, we will respect the referendum will, because we are obliged to respect it and will therefore be forced not to oppose this law. I said don't argue. Of course, at the end of the day, this amendment that came today, the amendment under item 20, I hope, Mr President, that you are not serious about it. Mr President, I am the Chairman of the Committee, who is signed under today's amendment, because this one goes beyond all else. I will not appoint him. [[...]] I wish all the new municipalities a happy way through, believe me as the mayor, thorn forest to the green meadow, which is very difficult to reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u181	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with fellow workers, the rest are present! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will not vote unitedly in this law because there are also several contested municipalities among the proposed and we cannot challenge the Government, which has decided on the basis of the majority will as voted in the referendums. The problem is that there were no agreements at some local level and that some were ignored, neglected to say otherwise, in their interests. Among the 12 proposals is the majority of those who deserve our support, so the two Members of our Parliament will support this law. Of course, we have major problems with the foretold Municipality of Mokronog-Trebelno, where Trebelna came into a referendum decision because the municipality of Mokronog does not have enough population and has therefore attracted Trebelna. This happened, but in the end the situation turned out to be such that 73% of the people in the Trebelna are not in favour of joining the congregation of Mokronog. Of course, the problem arose because there were no two referendum areas, but only one, but they replaced this with a signed statement by both presidents of the local community that there would be no congregation if there were no majority support in either of the local communities. Of course, following the outcome of the referendum, when it showed that things were going to fail, additional informal talks began, but without citizens. At the only assembly of citizens in Trebelna, however, the majority will of the inhabitants remained in the sense that they would not want to join the new congregation of Mokronog. In doing so, it is not irrelevant that the applicant for the establishment of a new congregation did not allow a separate determination of the referendum will or withdraw the proposal for the establishment of a new congregation in accordance with an agreement and contrary to promises. On the ground, we find that the local communities of Trebel were invited to a joint referendum decision because the Mokronoga region could not, however, succeed in setting up a congregation, not in order to have creative cooperation. Of course, the exercise of superiority and rape has taken place, as only a handful of those representing their interests, rather than the interests of the nationals who have expressed the majority of the referendum will against such a decision, are in fact supported by the Trebel decision to join the Municipality of Mokronog. In such a "robota", we cannot all participate, but those who support the law, of course, refer to other congregations that meet all the conditions and are in accordance with the law without compromise. For we cannot imagine creative cooperation in the newly formed congregation of disgruntled people, whose resentment at their lack of respect for their referendum will reaches a level that limits hatred, which apparently does not disturb those in Mokronog. To realize the desire of our congregation at the expense of the unhappy feelings of those who do not want to do so, which is, of course, for me and for us as a customer of Pirova, a victory and inappropriate conduct that is difficult to support. In this case, of course, the local self-government committee also played an infamous role, which found 73 per cent of the opposition to Trebelno to be unwitting. In fact, it is a clear statement of opposition, not a feeling and a marriage that makes it difficult for a person to support those who have been raped, but not because of those who have been raped. That's why I'm gonna hold on, and another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. She's not here. Mr Pavel Rupar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will unitedly support the law, even though there are different thoughts and desires among us in the individual heads of Members, given the situation created after the referendum. However, we strongly reject any thought and, above all, we condemn the various speculations that come from individual co-workers and, above all, colleagues come to those local communities where the referendum outcome is more than clear, and none of them has been defined as they are now speaking. Walking between people and crowding, how right it would be now, is valuable and we condemn this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The problem is the Roman Toplice and the Zidani Bridge, where in the preceding period before the referendum, none of these Members mentioned what they are saying now. The bigger problem is the Mokronog and Trebelno, where it is now emerging among the people, those individuals who are looking for cheap electoral votes and, of course, who are stuttering people, including in the way of protests before parliament, the convictions of individual investors and investors, and those who are defending the law as the only credible and only correct means by which Members and Members of the National Assembly can behave. That is why, as I have predicted, we will support the law and hope that in the future, those who have taken part in the “short” referendum will also realize, however, that they are better off in the smaller municipalities, that their development can be fertilized by cooperation and that they will argue with the parties in the individual local communities or parts of the congregations that will become new congregations, that they will be satisfied that their passions are written off and that the development of these places is moving along harmoniously. It'll be a new opportunity in a few years. If one of them no longer feels good about himself in the skin of the newly formed congregation, he will have more than an excellent opportunity to initiate new initiatives or start new procedures for secession, relocation, if you want, establishment and so on for new congregations. We certainly want to, and we have done so, in the spirit that life and the matter that actually led these people to initiatives for the establishment of new congregations will be taken into account and fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Well, hello, all of you! The proposal for a law establishing 12 new municipalities is based on the procedure carried out in this regard by the National Assembly and the conduct of research referendums in the areas where new municipalities are to be established. In doing so, I would like to point out, on behalf of the Club of Members, that all 12 proposed municipalities are exceptional and that, in fact, the minimum number of people per 2,000 is being legalised, although the law states that this should be exceptional. In the parliamentary group, when addressing this topic, we would like to point out that, despite the frequent incursion of the ruling coalition regarding the consistent respect of the will of people, in many cases they have been played and violated, and unfortunately interested parties and groups have not been able and have not been able to use the appropriate legal means to achieve and protect their interests in a timely manner. On many occasions, however, they were knowingly misled by the applicants for the establishment of new municipalities. With regard to the first part, this is the definition of referendum areas, at our parliamentary club, we have already pointed out at the meeting of the National Assembly in December that there have been grave violations in determining the referendum areas, in particular where the will has been clearly expressed to identify this will separately for a given area; however, the National Assembly has not taken such a will into account and has been prevented by the coalition by voting in the National Assembly. That is why we have also left the meeting at this point and obstructed it. In doing so, the incentives sought to determine the will of the whole areas of the new municipalities and thus to vote on the majority of the potentially negative minority. The members of the local self-government committee were only informed after the vote in the exploratory referendums about the many acts and omissions of individual parts of the congregation, but we were also not familiar with all the letters and documents and materials held by others, the government and the leadership of the national assembly. One of the most gravely played cases is the new Municipality of Mokronog - Trebelno, where there was even a publicly known agreement by the presidents of local communities that the municipality would be established only if a positive election outcome was reached in both local communities. 72% of voters voted against Trebelna, but most voted in the single referendum area. This is a document in which the proposer publicly states in the local press that the proposal, I quote, "I will in the national assembly in the decision to re-establish the municipalities propose not to set up the Municipality of Mokronog - Trebelno if such will of the people at the referendum", i.e. the countries of Trebelna. This is a document that exists and I today call on the proposer to withdraw his proposal. The proposal for a new congregation is here today, in the form of legal and legal, but with a large mark, that it was not played fair, fair, transparent and therefore illegal. Similar examples have been brought to our attention by the local community of Bela Cerkev in the new congregation of Šmarješke Toplice and the village of Lutwerci in the new congregation of Apache. Here I have a document by which the municipality or municipal council of Gornja Radgon informs the government and the National Assembly on 25 October that they want the settlement or village of Lutverci not to be considered as the new municipality of Apache, but no one ever takes this document into account. At the parliamentary club, we have pointed out this and these problems, today we will not oppose the new municipalities, but we will not support such incorrect proposals that are prepared in the package, as this would also give legitimacy to this incorrect proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Today’s happy ending for those who have received such a desirable congregation in line with their interests will end with bitter taste and a sense of injustice for those who fail to do so. I'm thinking mostly of the Roman Spas here. We have opposed the excessive fragmentation of the country into small congregations in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats since the beginning. We also objected because this work is about centralising the country, contrary to our decentralisation requirements. Even though it sounds illogical, this is exactly what happens with the extra division, centralism in the country is being strengthened. Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government states that the municipality has at least 5,000 inhabitants. That's supposed to be the rule. But the same article also provides for exceptions, because exceptions became a rule for us, we wrote at least two thousand residents last year as an additional condition. At first glance, I would say that this measure has exacerbated the numerical condition for the establishment of municipalities, but it has actually become just a rule that denied the number of 5,000. All the proposals except one, which was rejected by the people at the referendum, were exceptions, that is, less than 5,000 inhabitants. The referendum is supposed to end the story. It is true that these were referendums that did not bind the legislative branches of power, but people's will is not to be played. As I have already said, in the Group of Social Democrats we are not in favour of excessively dividing the country into small municipalities, but we respect the decision of the people at the referendum and we will not oppose the will of the people. Above all, we have no problem with proposals for new congregations where there are no misunderstandings and no contradictions. In case of individual decision-making, we would certainly give our vote for Šmarješke Toplice, Straža, Poljčane, Makola, Sveti Tomaž, Centre ob Drava, Svet Trojica in Slovenian Gorica, Kostanjevica na Krka, Cirkulane. However, we will have quite a few difficulties in voting in the package, because we know the opposition at the local level in the case of the new municipalities of Apache, Mokronog - Trebelno and Renče - Vogrsko. It is true that these future congregations formally meet the criteria for voting at the referendum. Let me mention the case of the new municipality of Mokronog - Trebelno, because in Mokronog they voted in favour and in Trebelno against. Nevertheless, it was a common result and it was also found to be positive. So more for than against. They forgot about the pre-referendum arrangements. It is very difficult to vote for a new congregation where an important part of this new congregation opposes it. In the future new municipality of Apache there are problems with the village of Lutverci, which does not want to go to the new municipality and have also voted. Of course, this settlement cannot be excluded from the area of the new municipality at this time, but it is a source of great dissatisfaction in this settlement. The Lutverci settlement is both territorially and functionally more connected to the neighbouring settlements, which remain in the municipality of Gornja Radgona. There is also no agreement within the current municipality of Nova Gorica. The current local community opposes the new congregation of Renče - Vogrsko. We therefore have no difficulty in voting for new congregations where the will of people is clear and there is no misunderstanding. In the process of adopting this law, it is also worth noting the financial consequences of this law. In addition to one of the municipalities set up today, all other beneficiaries of the State budget will be compensated. However, there will be no financial implications for the state budget. Thus it is written in the proposal to amend the law. An important message is also the assumption that the Law on Community Financing will not be amended in 2006. That's bad. At the same time, it can again be claimed that the law, such as it is, is the generator of the formation of new congregations. Although we do not favour the formation of municipalities that have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants and therefore are exceptions that should be very carefully justified, we will respect the will of the people in the referendum and will not oppose the proposed law amending and supplementing the law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Comrade Potč, you will hear the opinion of New Slovenia, without worry. Before I say anything, I'd like to say hi to everyone on the balcony. I must say that few subjects in this national assembly are as interesting as the establishment of congregations. Only when we adopted the law on hunting were more people on the balcony and also speeches are rarely as fireful as they were on the occasion of the establishment of municipalities, in particular as regards our colleague from LDS, and I am actually pleased that today this will somehow fall, at least for a certain time, and that today we will establish 12 new municipalities and that Nova Slovenija will vote for this. The debate, as I mentioned earlier, was bitter, overheated at times, could even be said to be ideological, for those who once abolished the congregations are opposed to reestablishing themselves today, and people actually want congregations. I myself have been at a number of events on this occasion, where they have boisterously welcomed their more than a decade of efforts for a single congregation. It is true, however, that this is not the case everywhere and that we Members here have been in conflict of interest, under strong lobbying and that we have made a mistake on this occasion. Today it is an ashtray and we can mess with the ashes, we show with our finger who is to blame, and I would say that we are all guilty of the situation of Mokronog-Trebel, because we all had the opportunity to deal with the two referendum areas. I'm sorry we didn't do it, and now we're in a situation where we decide to go together, at least it seems like people who don't want it. But it seems to us that this congregation, this newly formed congregation, will benefit greatly from this decision, and I am almost certain that within one year of the election to the congregation council, the opinion of the people in this area will be different or at least heartily, for everywhere where small congregations have been formed, people have also accepted them and we can see everywhere that they have made great progress in these congregations, that they have done many things that have not been done before in the great congregations. We don't have time to discuss why this is the case right now, but the facts are. We regret in New Slovenia that it failed the Roman Toplices, in fact they failed because there was one area behind them that would lose contact with motherhood, that is the Zidani bridge and that this was the reason why both the government and the local self-government committee expelled this municipality from law. We also regret that the trial went through the Constitutional Court with Izlakas and that before the referendum, the Constitutional Court had already ruled on the congregation. As for some other statements, so once again, it is possible to be a general after the battle. I must tell you, colleague, that the media records are not any documents, the documents are something other than what the journalists wrote, and that even a letter from the individual officials of the Lutvers, where I myself proposed for the Apache municipality, cannot be a merodeous document. No one suggested that the Lutherans should be specifically decided on the referendum outcome. This does not mean that they are also to be expelled from the local Apache community. If you do not believe, look at the two outcomes in Ormož, where two villages were also wanted to be excluded from the local communities, Obrez and Gornji Klutarovci. Since the National Assembly did not agree to this, the referendums were carried out by the municipality, no one succeeded, they voted 70% against expulsion everywhere and 70% for the municipality, both the Centre and Sveti Tomaž. In New Slovenia, we are relatively satisfied with what came out in the end not to say absolutely, once again that we regret that we have not done otherwise in the case of the Mokronog-Trebel. Today, however, the law is so simple that we can support it and thus support everything. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the municipalities and on the identification of their areas, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration and reception by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law is prepared on the basis of a preliminary procedure carried out for the establishment of municipalities and for the modification of their areas in the National Assembly and the holding of an advisory referendum on the basis of a decree of the National Assembly of Certain Referendum Areas. The bill follows the provisions of Article 15 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides for a way of taking account of the expressed will of the people in the individual referendum area, as it covers all those proposals that have received the majority support of voters who voted. Unfortunately, however, it remains for people in individual places, as is evident from their numerous letters, such as the inhabitants of the local community of Bela Cerev, the village of Lutverci, the local community of Trebelno and some others, a sense of involuntary involvement in the new municipality, even though they will be established at the final positive referendum results in accordance with the law. The establishment of new congregations should certainly follow the objective of regulating the situation in a specific local environment in a way that unites people and enables them to live a better and more harmonious life. Therefore, applicants for the establishment of new municipalities should be particularly careful to make good proposals that are of the will of the local population and allow for an improvement in the situation in a particular local environment. Article 14 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides that the procedure for changing the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality shall be initiated by the State Assembly on a proposal submitted by the Constitution to certain law-makers or the municipal council. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that such a solution is completely needless to cause problems. What do I mean? Any Member may also submit a proposal for a new congregation. If the Member is not careful enough to consider any proposal or if the area where the municipality is to be established does not know, we will get suggestions for municipalities that cause further dispersion in a particular local environment and do not contribute to a more compatible life for people in a particular local community. This makes us miss the essence of local self-government, which is supposed to satisfy the common interests of people in a particular logical local environment. Even greater complications arise because individual candidates forcefully include in the proposals of the new municipality a specific area or local community only in order to ensure that the absolute minimum conditions for the establishment of a new congregation are laid down by law. As a result, certain local communities in which the referendum outcome has not been determined separately are forced to join the new congregation. This, of course, destroys the fundamental objective of forming a new congregation. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore believe that it is necessary to seriously consider who may be the proposer for the establishment of a new congregation. We believe that Members are not the best option in this regard, so we propose to the competent minister to examine this issue and find appropriate solutions. Proposals for the establishment of a municipality should be submitted by the municipal councils or local communities, in short, those coming from a specific local environment and well aware of the situation in which they propose logical or acceptable solutions for local people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will vote today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th agenda or at the latest at 7 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 20th A-point of the agenda - the defence proposal for a decision on the schedule of the referendum and the definition of the referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and the determination of the modification of their areas. The draft decree was submitted to the local self-government and regional development committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Paul Rupar, for an additional explanation of the motion for a decree. Here you go, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, with respect! On 16 February 2006, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development reopened proposals for the establishment of municipalities of Poljana, Rakek, Rečica ob Savinja, Lower Idrija and Šentrupert as the working body at its 8th emergency meeting on the basis of the 6th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 16 February 2006. In the 6th point of the decision, the Constitutional Court commissioned the National Assembly to consider these proposals within a time limit which would allow any referendums to be carried out. In view of the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply to the law on local self-government, it does not apply to the implementation of a procedure for the establishment of municipalities or the modification of their areas, but it is only important that the State Assembly conducts the procedure before the call for regular local elections. The proposals are set out in paragraph 5 of this Decision and in certain repealed points of the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory of 15.12.2005. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 and Article 260(4) and Article 261(1) of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Committee, for the same reason as the Constitutional Court, repealed those points of the decision of the National Assembly, also reconsidered the proposal for the establishment of municipalities of Gore, Log, Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Mountains. On the basis of those provisions of the Act, the Committee has previously adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly the repeal of points 1.4, 1.5 and 1.13 of the Decision of the National Assembly relating to those three proposals. The Committee has included those three proposals in the enforcement procedure of the Constitutional Court’s decision because it assesses that, under the Constitution and the law, the National Assembly is obliged to respect and consider a legal condition of the healthcare home or health station in all cases equally, otherwise an arbitral decision would be taken. The repeal, however, is based on point 5 of the proposal for a decree. On the basis of the negative opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on these proposals, at last December’s meeting, you will recall that, on the basis of the proposed decision by the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on these proposals for non-compliance with the legal condition of the healthcare home or health station and on the basis of the proposed decision by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as a parent working body, that those areas do not meet the conditions for setting up or modifying its territory. At that time, the National Assembly assessed the fulfilment of that condition as an absolute and not a relative condition, resulting from an explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision. At its 8th urgent meeting due to time constraints, the Committee was informed of the informal opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the reassessment of the fulfilment of the condition for the establishment of municipalities of 23.2.2006, in which the Government was based on a statement and explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the committee held a meeting on the same day as the government. The official assembly received the government's opinion a little later. In its consideration and explanation of whether the individual proposal fulfils the legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality, including the condition of a health centre or health station, the Committee based on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposed establishment of municipalities, the establishment of their areas, the change of areas and the change in the status of municipalities of 28.11.2005 and the informal opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the reassessment of the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities of 23 February 2005. On the basis of that explanation, on the basis of the condition of the health centre or the health station resulting from the explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the Government, the Committee discussed at the meeting all those conditions, in particular in terms of whether or not it fulfils the conditions laid down by the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government and thus that condition. Taking into account all the above facts, the Committee voted on each proposal separately and assessed that the proposals for the establishment of municipalities of Poljane, Rakek, Rečica ob Savinja, Lower Idrija, Šentrupert, Gorje, Log, Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Goricas meet certain conditions for the establishment of a municipality by law and by law. On the basis of the decisions adopted by the Committee, a proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum on the establishment or modification of municipalities was prepared at a meeting of the National Assembly pursuant to Article 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government. It therefore proposes that the Committee adopt these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Ivan Žagar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members, present. By a decision of 16.2.2006, the Constitutional Court annulled the individual points of the decision of the National Council on the finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory. Repealed points of the decision refer to proposals for the establishment of municipalities of Poljane, Rakek, Rijeka ob Savinja, Lower Idrija and Šentrupert. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that, when assessing the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities submitted for consideration in the same procedure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not act arbitrarily because it continued the procedure only on proposals for the establishment of new municipalities that met all the constitutional and legal conditions. The assessment of the conditions in this procedure took into account the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government by taking into account the actual existence of an institution, primary school, healthcare home, etc. In none of the proposed municipalities that are re-examined, that is, there is no healthcare home. It was important for the re-evaluation of the Constitutional Court that only the fact that those institutions were not located in the territory of the future municipality was not sufficient to reject the proposal to set up a municipality. The Government considers that the proposed new municipalities will be able to provide primary health care in cooperation with other municipalities, in accordance with the law on local self-government and the agreement on the exercise of institutional rights between municipalities of co-founders of health institutions at local level, in accordance with the law on local self-government. In view of the views of the Constitutional Court and taking into account the above facts, it can be assessed that the proposals for the establishment of municipalities of Poljane, Rakek, Rečica ob Savinja, Lower Idrija and Šentrupert meet certain conditions for the establishment of municipalities by law. We believe that the same is true for the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities Log, Drager, Gore and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Gorica, which the government has not addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, I would like to remind you that the deadline for making amendments to this point has already expired. I give the floor first to the representatives of the groups. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u197	Dear Mr President, a respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The ruling will be supported by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, as it cannot be disregarded by the Constitutional Court's decision to re-examine us on the one hand and, on the other hand, to remind us that the Law on Local Self-Government is still possible to read differently. We believe that the law on local self-government needs to be finalized again in the future, the law on the financing of municipalities and the law on the provinces adopted. At that time, conditions could arise in which ever - new appetites after the fragmentation of existing municipalities could be dried up. Otherwise, the parliamentary group will respect the decision of citizens in all areas covered by this decree and where citizens will decide whether or not they want their municipality at the referendums. In doing so, I am particularly pleased that the congregation of Šentrupert, which, by the way, meets all the legal conditions, including those relating to health care and which we have understood in accordance with Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, is not sufficient. While there are needs at the local and basic health level covered from the center of the municipality, present, and will also be in the future. However, I believe that the congregation of Shentrupert, as it had intended before the proposal to establish a congregation, will also take care of its health care station in the coming years. We believe that the new municipalities will realize their interests for the benefit of their citizens, easier and better than ever, a practice that has given positive results in this regard, although not only because of those who have set up a new municipality, but also because the state has allocated adequate funds to finance municipalities. And, of course, all those who receive and lead the new congregations in this regard, we support and in this regard we will also support the proposed decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, the distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues and the distinguished presence on the balcony. By Decision U-1/06 to 22 of 16.2.2006, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia repealed points 1/9, 1/10, 1/11, 1/12 and 1/15 of the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of their territory. The Constitutional Court thus ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to re-judge proposals for the establishment of municipalities of Poljana, Rakek, Rijeka ob Savinja, Lower Idrija and Šentrupert within a time limit which allows the referendum to be carried out. At its 8th regular session of 23.2.2006, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development adopted a decision at the hearing of the Constitutional Court ruling proposing to the National Assembly to repeal points 1/4, 1/5 and 1/13 of the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities and that it also re-examines the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities of Gore, Log-Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Goreča on the same grounds as the reasons for meeting the conditions for the establishment of municipalities under the Constitution and law, as it will consider the proposals set out in the Constitutional Court Decision No. U-I/06 to 22. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of new municipalities: Poljane, Rakek, Rečica ob Savinja, Lower Idrija, Šentrupert, Gorje, Log-Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Mountains, because they meet all the conditions of Article 14a and 14b of the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u201	In the process of examining the proposal for a decree under consideration, the LDS Club has repeatedly pointed out that the National Assembly in this procedure should assess whether the individual proposals fulfil certain conditions by law for setting up or modifying the territory of the municipality and state, as the Constitutional Court has stated in its decision, compelling reasons. The Constitutional Court has so far assessed whether both the proposer and the national assembly have sufficiently justified the reasons for the establishment of the congregation. In a number of decisions, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that in assessing the decisions of the National Assembly, it has to assess whether, in terms of the principle of equality and the rule of law, the State assembly has applied the criteria laid down in the rules for establishing the municipalities to all cases in the same way or whether it has been arbitral. Whether this has been done, it can only be found from the explanation of the decisions taken resulting from the entire process material on the procedure for setting up municipalities or changing their areas. In the LDS Club, we welcome the decision of the committee to invite the National Assembly to hold referendums for 8 new municipalities. However, we are disappointed at the course of the Committee's completely unprepared meetings and the role of the Government in the consideration of the proposal for a decision to call for a referendum. At the Committee's meeting, we had to call on the Government to determine whether, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, it had carefully re-examined specific proposals and whether it had found that the proposals showed that the implementation of the common health needs of citizens would be ensured. The Government's position was presented at the meeting only orally, following our explicit call, but it did not indicate whether the new municipalities' candidates, in addition to the general findings of the Government, had given additional reasons for demonstrating that the proposals met these conditions. The government got away with it. In its opinion, it defined only those five proposals which had already been decided by the Constitutional Court, and therefore the Committee was in a quagmire, since the other three additional cases also needed to be determined in advance whether the situation was exactly the same as in the five cases already mentioned, only after that could the Committee deal with these cases. This was also pointed out by the legislature, but its opinion was ignored. We believe that this should be a prerequisite for the Committee to discuss these proposals at all and then decide. The decision of the Constitutional Court is unequivocal and it is necessary to re-evaluate whether the reasons are given or not. The procedure has been very clumsy, since both the chairman of the committee and the government have made several mistakes, and the decisions we have today are on the legal border, so we can only hope that no one will complain or raise a constitutional dispute against the decision taken. Despite this, we will support the proposal. In doing so, we warn the ruling coalition that the Law on Local Self-Government stipulates that people's will can be separately determined and that referendum areas can also be established. We therefore expect that there will be no re-intention or vote to allow the country or the country to do so, and in this regard we have also tabled an amendment to separate the determination of this will. I also expect from the applicants, and I hope that this time they have worked well with those environments where this is supposed to happen and there will be no similar problems, problems and problems, as at the point that we have dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia did not intervene for the first time in the area of so-called local self-government. Five points of the decision on non-compliance with the conditions for the establishment of municipalities were repealed. That the Constitutional Court will also be employed this time with complaints from those on the list of negative decisions, we have already warned about its adoption. It is probably not necessary and it is not productive to warm up and talk again about the complications of adopting this decision in the National Assembly. But let me just give you a typical example, which has clearly shown that the establishment of new municipalities is also about measuring the political power and impact of individual Members or Members' groups. This was the case when deciding on the new congregation of Rijeka near Savinja. The Constitutional Court has ordered us to reconsider the proposals for the establishment of municipalities in a way that will allow the newly formed municipalities to come to life with this year's local elections. This is logical, of course, because it is only in a way that we can avoid the situation in order for the municipalities to be stocked and, despite the decision made at the referendum and the establishment of the law, to come to life only with local elections in 2010. This could lead to a conflict for new municipalities within existing municipalities mainly in the financing of individual projects. Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government contains the second indent, which lists the conditions to be met by the future municipality, the primary health care of citizens and the rounding up of a healthcare home or a health station. It may be argued that the primary health care of citizens is not necessary for the municipality to have its own health care home or health care station. However, it is likely that under all the conditions set out in this Article. This may also mean that these conditions, which are enshrined in the law, are merely as non-binding text and will be refracted and adapted in accordance with needs and interests. The problem lies elsewhere - the problem is that our exceptions have become the rule. All the proposals, both those discussed at the previous point and those we are considering now, have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Of course, all proposals can be found in the third paragraph of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which reads: "For reasons of geographical, border, ethnic, historical or economic reasons, exceptionally," I stress, "the establishment of a municipality with less than 5,000 but not less than 2,000 inhabitants." We are therefore continuing the practice of fragmentation of municipalities so far. The only exception was the mandate 2000-2004, I mean the mandate of the National Assembly. Let me add that the requirements of settlements that are excluded from the existing municipalities are certainly logical and I understand them. According to the existing Law on Local Self-Government, the calculation certainly shows that I had in mind a law on the financing of municipalities, the calculation shows that they will acquire more funding in their environment, and in particular it is important for them to decide on the use of these funds and on their further development on their own rather than a remote municipal centre. Unfortunately, all these procedures strengthen centralism in this country, because the country will not transfer its tasks to small congregations, they are gone by now, and they will probably not be in the future. Finally, it is quite understandable that the areas to be defined as referendum areas today did not agree that we have decided in this house for municipalities that, unlike them, had only a health station and all the other criteria have been met and rejected. The basic criterion, which is supposed to be a rule and not an exception, is that, in any event, 5,000 people do not meet the established congregation today, nor the one for which we are going to call a referendum today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The position of Nova Slovenije is the same as at the first establishment of municipalities. We have already supported all these 8 proposals, and we will do so today. We had already interpreted the law in the same way that the Constitutional Court had now interpreted it. And we were always convinced that having or not having a healthcare home was not the same as having or not having health care in an area. And that, in fact, if a local community cannot obtain the status of its congregation, it can never reach its doctor. It is said that the process of providing its own health care can only go in this direction, it is said that the municipality first arises and then also ensures that it receives a doctor in its place, and practice also confirms this, since many Slovene municipalities have created, created this possibility and brought health care closer to the population. I can only say one case from the area where I come from alone. Earlier, people from the Harvesters had to drive to the doctor on Ptuj, now that the Harvesters have their own congregation, of course they also have a doctor in their congregation; and what the local government should actually be, if not that those things that people can do in their territory are themselves doing for their own needs. And for this we have always advocated local self-government in New Slovenia and we do not understand this process as centralisation, but on the contrary. We don't know why we should have local communities, but we don't. What are local communities today? Most where they still exist, more or less gravediggers and roaders without money. This has been left to them by the congregations, which they can do, for which they have no other option. Therefore, these requirements also apply to new congregations. As far as funding is concerned, which some like to point out is that most municipalities will be financially inseparable. So, financial alignment is one of the foundations of funding for local self-government, everywhere in developed European countries, especially for those rural municipalities that cannot generate enough of their own resources. In any event, those municipalities need to ensure financial compensation as today, and of course also in the future, if we want people to remain in this area and remain settled and our cultural landscape processed and cultured. If, of course, we give up this principle, then moving from the countryside will be even larger and the areas of the Republic of Slovenia will become empty. I think that the establishment of small congregations, at least for the place I come from, has stopped this process of eviction. Today, Haloza would have been empty most of the time if it had not been for four or eight years before the creation of the new congregation in Halo. With these municipalities came municipal infrastructure and a good part of development. The current government coalition thinks by funding seriously, but not as it did in the previous mandate, as we have already shown in the adoption of the 2005 budget rebalancing, where for the first time in years the principal increased by 10% by 4.5% this year and just as much next year, although inflation will be significantly lower than that. This means that we want to strengthen local self-government through financial means, not weaken, as some speak and actually deceive the Slovenian public. Let me get this straight. I have already said that we can vote once, not only for Rijeka and Šentrupert, but also for the other six, because the two were voted out first and then voted out again in the previous vote. We are very pleased that these five congregations for which the Constitutional Court has issued a constitutional judgment include three who have not complained to the Constitutional Court, and we are particularly pleased that among these three there will also be a new municipality of Gore, that is, if I am not mistaken, the only congregation where the municipal council has actually proposed. For the most part, it is difficult for the congregation councils to give their consent to the new congregations, for this gives up a certain part of the finances. And if these congregations are such a great cost to the state, then one might wonder how the congregation’s saints are against being expelled from their territory. So that's the situation, and we don't have to cover our eyes, so we can all see that. There was agreement from the mountains, I think the Bled Congregation, already in its previous term. And we welcome this and think that this is a fair way of dealing with it and that Goreje will achieve a positive referendum result and that Goreje will also become a single congregation. As a Member, however, I am very happy that among them will be the Rakek Congregation, which our former Member, colleague Majda Zupan, has worked very hard for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, on 15 December 2005, in adopting a decision on the call for a referendum and establishing the referendum areas and the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine whether an area fulfils the conditions for setting up municipalities, we gave a green light to the municipalities for which the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to review proposals for the establishment of municipalities listed in the repealed points of the decision of the National Assembly. It is the proposals of the newly formed municipalities of Poljane, Rakek, Rijeka ob Savinja, Lower Idrija and Šentrupert. At the time of its consideration of these proposals by a decision adopted pursuant to Article 14a of the Law on Local Self-Government, the National Assembly found that the proposed areas for the establishment of those municipalities did not meet the legal condition of a healthcare home or health station. For the same reasons, the National Assembly also rejected the proposals for the establishment of the municipalities of Gore, Log, Dragomer and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Gorica, which did not appeal to the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always argued that it is only because of the absence of a healthcare home in the proposed area that a proposal for the establishment of a municipality cannot be rejected. Let me just give you a few sentences from the positions we gave at the time on this issue. The Law on Local Self-Government requires that the municipality have primary health care and that the health centre or health station are indicated in the round. We agree, there must be primary health care for citizens at the local level. What is appropriate primary health care for citizens and how this should be regulated should be determined by the profession. It is also provided for in the Law on Health Activities, including in the case of the absence of a health home in the municipality, the law states: "If there is no health home in the municipality or town, the municipality or city, in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, must ensure the implementation of preventive and other programmes in basic health care with a contract with another healthcare home, medical station or private health workers who carry out public health service on the basis of a concession. This type of health care is taking place in a number of previously established municipalities, and the country would certainly, with different conditions or starting points, now place some other municipalities and citizens in an unequal position or then demand that they meet the conditions set out in this Article of the Law on Local Self-Government, also those municipalities that have already been established and that we also know that they do not have a healthcare home. In addition, I find it highly irrational and unnecessary to request the construction of new health homes or stations if the same profession does not require or are the same citizens who will now live there, and only under the other name of the congregation, have some conditions and medical care just as before the transformation of that congregation. It seems to us that it is a fundamental condition and requires what the municipalities should ensure to their citizens that this condition lies, in our view, primarily in the introductory phrase in the above-mentioned Article of the Law, in order to ensure the conditions for normal life. The establishment of municipalities must therefore, in our view, be based on the needs of citizens. There is no need to force additional investment, but instead of spending money on better quality health services and new, urgently needed medicines and medical equipment, it is a little irrational. We are confident, however, that in these congregations for which I hope we will also support them today, primary health care will be fully ensured, since it is a matter of congregations whose citizens can reach the full medical care of the nearby congregation in a very short period of time. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Good afternoon. First of all, I owe an apology to the Chairman of the Committee and to the Members and Members when I said that I hope they did not take the amendment seriously. That was not an amendment, but a proposal to amend the report. But I meant it. I meant it. I meant it. When we, once again, begin to do all the calvary that has been happening around the establishment of new congregations, we are all members of the parent’s working body, whether we are hiding or not today, as government representatives, we know exactly what we are deciding. And we have decided, the National Assembly has accepted this, that the congregations we are discussing again today do not meet the conditions nor do they meet the inquiry referendum. Today, we read that the Constitutional Court has found that it is not a serious condition for the establishment of a public health network in the area of a proposed new municipality or for the establishment of public health care, but not for the establishment of a healthcare infrastructure. We all knew that. This was not legally established anywhere, but was a practice from the past, which I ask myself on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, how many municipalities from the past, which are unfortunately not congregations today and are not precisely because they were rejected or did not meet the conditions - I speak from the past once again - because they did not have, I will use as much of our most common words, the health house. Today, we suddenly find that even if they do not have health care, they can establish it with a neighboring congregation and that it is perfectly fine. This is the first injustice that's happened. Secondly, I am very sorry that this is about everything - not about honesty, not about honesty, but about just and wordplay, what is and what is wrong, and if someone turns the word around, then suddenly everything is fine. Personally, as well as some members of the Slovenian National Party, the non-creditability we have experienced as Members is affected. Not just us, all of you. It has been said and shown that we are not worthy of trust, that we are changing - that is the essence, that we today are changing, rejecting, rejecting, revoking our conclusions, repeating, rejecting and changing our conclusions. Well, if the Constitutional Court has already said that we should judge ourselves or let the government judge, I will not argue now who, how and why, but we add three more congregations to this one, three more that were not included in the decision of the Constitutional Court, even though they fell out for the same reason and I wonder why the applicants for the three or three did not know that they could appeal to the Constitutional Court as others did. This is also unfair, colleagues and colleagues, to all of us. It's not fair. And also from the government, of all, I count colleagues and colleagues, we all care for the well-being of this country together. Today, by decree, where it is very difficult to read about all these thousands of figures on the first page on the basis of this, that article, by regulation, number and so on - we are saying that we are re-examined with proposals for the establishment of municipalities and we are citing ourselves to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Those five, I underlined them orange, it's okay, and we're moving on. In addition to this decree, where we refer to the Constitutional Court Regulation, there are three other congregations that do not belong to this regulation because it is not included, but we include them in this decree; we are calm and we are speaking because, because of the disorder and complete confusion! [[...]] And in this case, I don't know why I can't, let's say, expose myself, I don't want to make any other amendments or re-negotiations for a referendum for the congregation, I'm going to take the case, the Roman Warms, because it's close to me, and because they've decided in their referendum area, 70% said they're not among the new congregations, but they're not! I'd say O. K., if we have now given three others to the five in the Constitutional Court ruling, which are not at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, let us give again the Roman Spas in such a way as to make a whole area, we will make one referendum area, and still the outcome will be 52%, as it was. But I can't do that, but here the three congregations put together just like that, without the basics, without any basis, except for the logical conclusion that these three too - that I will not speak to them in mind, Gorje, Log, Dragomir and St. George - experienced the same fate that they did not have the opportunity to perform or get the green lights for the referendum because they did not have a healthcare home. And I'm going to say that the Roman Spas aren't the congregation's pride because they didn't know and they didn't have the green light to make one referendum exploration area. And I'm going to write in this decree and we're going to talk about it - no, I can't do it! I don't know, the government or the National Assembly, we don't care what we write here and make it up. It is not fair to other congregations! I also wonder why those congregations, many of which are still likely or local communities that would like to be congregations, why they were not very familiar with the procedure: how and what it should be like to invent it against ourselves, and that is not fair. And how can we support the decree by which the national assembly as the supreme legislative branch of power repeals its own decision? It means that we were indecisive, unconscious and ignorant, deceived. We've reached a decision. Today, we are withdrawing our decision in order to do something else. What's in the back, I don't know. I don't mind if the whole thing comes this far, and the Slovenian National Party doesn't want 50 new congregations to be formed if it all comes this far, but have the same starting point, no one can start the Olympics at 100 meters in a way that one of the starters has 10 meters in a row, the other has 10 meters in a row, and the third one has 20. The outcome is not fair. And this outcome won't be fair either! It will not be fair, because of those three congregations that were not dealt with by the courts, because they may not have known that they could turn to him. But if they did not turn around, they hoped that the National Assembly was firm in their decisions, and they were wrong again. Personally, under no circumstances will I adopt this decree, for in 14 days we will meet again and talk about a congregation, or not, because suddenly all conditions will be the same. And I call on this moment on the government and the National Assembly to draw up single criteria for the formation of new congregations. And it is not just a case that the new congregations are being talked about in the election year at local elections, but it is not just a case at all. To all those who have contributed to all the calvary that has been created, I want, of course, a lot of the voting votes that have been obtained at the expense of the formation or non-forming of the new communities. I really want to tell them, but these voices, you know, they're not forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. After the general debate, we will come to the debate on the amendment you received at the bench in the same time announced. First of all, Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor. He's not here. Marian Pojbich. Not at all. Joseph Bajc. Lucky Friend. Mr. Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to tell my colleague Anderlich, I'm here mentally and physically, so, my colleague Anderlich, please make this observation to someone else, not to me. One of the congregations that receives the correctional exam today is Lower Idrija, among them four others, whose treatment today is supposed to be, in the notes, to say, "make a correctional examination" by the Members of this National Assembly. In addition, as I am aware of on the Committee on Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion, that those three municipalities with the same criteria are to have their own healthcare home in the area of the potential municipality, we are to be re-examined and placed on the list of municipalities where the referendum is to be called and where the locals and the locals decide whether they have their own municipality or not. I personally assess that the decision of both the committee and the ministry or the government service for local self-government to give, in the notes, a "green light" to the other three municipalities, good or positive, possibly the opposite of what my colleague said or mentioned before me, whether they knew or did not know. Some have lost hope in determining or deciding whether to initiate a constitutional dispute or not. I personally assess that the provision of a law that says that a potential municipality or an area that is supposed to run for the establishment of a new municipality, that it has a compulsory health home, that it is not a living place or that other material legislation has already said or spoken before - we know that most health care homes or outpatients who provide services to foreigners and locals have already received concessions and most doctors or concessionaires who provide this health service have decided, because of the cheaper service and because of the fact that health homes which were built in another time for another area are functional and would have lost this functionality if they insisted on the provision of a law that says that the future community must also have a health home. If I mention only a specific example of Lower Idria. In the area of the future or the potential municipality of Lower Idrija, there are also rooms for the eventual establishment of a healthcare home, but the doctor, who provides most of the locals of these four local communities, who are supposed to form the future municipality of Lower Idrija, decided to provide a service for those of the locals as a doctor within the healthcare home located in Idrija. So I will support myself the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum for the establishment of all eight municipalities, including Lower Idrija.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the middle of February this year, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to re-examine proposals for five new municipalities, including the new municipality of Lower Idrija, and to assess whether they met certain conditions under the Constitution and the law for the establishment of a municipality. This must be done within a time limit which will allow any referendums to be held, the Constitutional Court has also written down. The Government and the Home Committee then added three new proposals and thus proposed to the National Assembly to call for referendums for eight additional municipalities. On this occasion, I would like to say that, before a proposal was made for an initiative group to establish a new Lower Idrija municipality, I proposed, on 15 July 2005, in the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an amendment to the law on local self-government, allowing the establishment of new municipalities, including the municipality of Idrija within its existing borders. The government supported the initiative in principle, but the amendment of the law was linked to the establishment of the provinces and the establishment of their powers. That is why we Members have decided on our own and have tabled a bill, which the government coalition has rejected without any specific arguments. By the adoption of the Law, the city’s municipalities could also become those who account for 15,000 inhabitants, except for those of the 12,000 inhabitants. Thus, the procedure for the establishment of the new municipalities of Domžale, Jesenice, Kamnik, Krško, Litija, Piran, Radovljica, Trbovlje and Idrija, and some others, was initiated. During this consideration of the new Law on Local Self-Government, the procedure for the establishment of new municipalities also began. The Government, the Home Committee and the National Assembly in December 2005 did not turn on the green light for the call for a referendum to establish the new municipality of Lower Idrija. In the meantime, as it is said, the Constitutional Court has intervened and again explained that, due to the absence of a healthcare home in the proposed area, it is not possible to reject the proposal to set up municipalities. As regards the municipality of Lower Idrija, I am of the opinion that people should be defined before the proposal at the referendum. Human will will then clearly show whether the municipality was a project of the provinces of four local communities or just an initiative group. I will vote for this referendum, but then, on the other hand, I expect Members and Members to decide, according to the outcome of this referendum, that if people oppose, then they should not set up such congregations, if they are in favour, then they should give the green light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say that that black scenario, as you have appointed some Members and Members to adopt the amendment and to supplement the law on local self-government, is not going to happen, because these changes that we have adopted here in the National Assembly will lead to the whole plasma of the establishment of new municipalities. Some of you were talking about 50, 100, you can read or look at the magnetograms. Today, we decide about 12 congregations and an additional 8 congregations. I am very sorry that, given the legislation adopted, where the lower limit of 2,000 people is, at least two, three are such cases that we have not decided on these congregations or that we will not give these people, who would also deserve their own congregation, the opportunity today to decide their own future. Surely, in view of the problem or condition of a health - care home in the law, the Constitutional Court has rightly held that these eight congregations, which do not have health homes, have a referendum to be held in these congregations. In particular, it makes sense for me to tell you a practical example from our congregation, where we had two doctors, each had about a thousand patients, and a good year ago a doctor went to the nearby congregation of Rogaško Slatino and with it almost all patients. That is how we know that we are making decisions about doctors ourselves, and this is where health legislation also provides us with this. That is why I will also support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the decision of the Constitutional Court towards our decision in the past at previous meetings of the National Assembly, when we decided on the referendum areas where they were, is that of those areas where the referendums were then carried out. We have already stressed that the situation in health care, health care, health care, since this law was written has changed significantly, so even then, in our opinion, the medical station cannot be necessary and a decisive condition for giving in a specific area to residents and residents the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they want to live in a new congregation or want to stay in a congregation where they are. As already a fellow Member of our parliamentary group has pointed out before me, we will support both these five or the whole list, five as well as those additional three municipalities that have not been subject to consideration or an area that has not been examined in the Constitutional Court, because we believe that the only constitutionally correct and fair thing is that the municipalities that meet equal conditions are, in fact, literally equal conditions that we should not treat them differently, one way or another. I therefore stress that I will support all these eight proposals by stressing, although it may not be entirely direct, or it is also necessary, of course, to rewind this law, that it is necessary to review it, and I think that now is the time, or as soon as we conclude this procedure, to re-examine the law in some articles, in particular as regards the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities. I also agree, of course, that those conditions that are written there are not the most important ones, that they are probably some others who ensure that the new environment is in place, that the new congregation will be brought to life, that it will do well, that they are probably some other conditions. Just as it is because of the complications that have arisen in the first package, if I can call it that it is necessary to define potential candidates, so that we can reach reasonable and responsible proposals so that those who live there will truly be those who live there, whether they are the initial committees, whether they are the saints of local communities, the council of the congregation or so. Among the eight there is also a proposal for a referendum area of the local community of Rijeka. I must point out that I was alone once, a few years ago, the mayor of the Mozirje municipality, where this River belongs. I am pleased to note that there was no initiative for secession at the time. This is said to have done well, especially by treating both parts of the present congregation in Mozir. Apparently in the next term, that wasn't the case. One of the reasons or one of the main reasons, of course, is that, years ago, a proposal given by an initiative in this national assembly separated part of the congregation and joined the other congregation, which practically meant that the present congregation of Mozire was divided into two parts. I made this clear back then, I think it was at the beginning of 1998, and it literally happened in practice. We have obviously two parts in practice, and that is why we also have this initiative here. Let me get this straight. Again, I would like to support all these eight proposals, with the desire that people in all these areas decide for themselves where they want to live: either in the new congregation or in the context of where they now live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This decree proves that the system on which we decide in our country which areas will become autonomous municipalities and which is not, in fact, a system, is something that is opposite to the system, something that is contrary to the order, something that is contrary to some regulated way of managing common matters. I hope to say that now that I have no doubt about it, it will be all together in this mandate of 20 new congregations, it is said that this year will end with a fruitful number of 213. For the next term, we can expect to be in the next term and before the 2010 elections, and before the 2014 elections, we will probably experience the desired number of municipalities in Slovenia, which is covered by the number of parishes, which is about 300. 300 to 320 will probably be the final number of congregations in our country. This was the number set out in the design when colleagues from the then party of the Christian Democrats and the People's Party made proposals for the establishment of municipalities in 1994. That's when it didn't work out. We have ended up with a much lower number, but now we are getting nicely not catastrophically, not tragically, as our colleague says, but stable, lastingly, step by step, so that the river of the ancient Romans "divide et impera" will be as realistic as possible. I want to know what will happen when we have a decision on the establishment of the provinces on our agenda. Will the landscape be enough to make sense of it? Are we going to start with 12 in the provinces, or are we going to start with an extreme of 14? Or maybe in 10 years in Slovenia there will be 54 provinces, as the so-called Cardelian or U.S.-like municipalities used to be, there will also be Cardelian municipalities. This is a few interesting things that I must say by my own sadness, because no newly formed congregation is capable of living on its own, except as we have heard in the law itself, the congregation of Rence-Vogris. At the same time, we say that this state budget will not cost another tolar. I'd like to see the calculation of the equations based on this. It has been shown that the sum of the compensations received by the newly formed municipalities is not equal to the amount obtained in the form of compensation by the former congregation from which these municipalities were formed. Even so, even so, when a congregation is not being compensated, it is said that it is self - sufficient, that newly formed congregations are often compensated. It is said that somehow it does not go together that the state budget would eventually come better through or that it would have the same expenditure on the settlement account as the creation of new municipalities. I must say that with us in the parliamentary group, when it comes to establishing new municipalities, in principle, it is quite uniform that the fragmentation of Slovenia into new and new municipalities is irrational, useless and ultimately, if we look at Slovenia as a whole, rather harmful than anything else. However, in some cases, we do not really know what to do. Not because they sit on the balcony with listeners and headphones, not because we want to please anyone, but because it is actually sometimes difficult, especially if you live in an environment where some people, especially some "kings in Bethany", future, want to have their own congregation, which they say they deserve. Using the term "earn" of your congregation is, in my opinion, absurd in itself. And that's what we heard today. No one deserves the congregation because the congregation is not mine, yours, itss, because some people are decent, obedient, because they know how to handle money and so on, but because they should apply certain principles, some criteria that must stand firm. However, it is not every four years that these criteria change and that we give new and new opportunities for the formation of these new congregations. I must say that I will not support the ruling and that it grieves me because, with the decision of the Constitutional Court by the National Assembly, it is necessary to give five areas the opportunity to decide on the establishment of a municipality, to add additional areas after some free will and judgment. If other people in Slovenia knew this possibility was given, would they add eighteen additional areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The famous Slovenian work of the Kozlovska judgment in Višni Gora is obviously still a current reading. Many things could be learned from this story, but today, when we establish new congregations, we repeat these stories over and over again and, rather than professionally and at the will of the people, we decide according to the will and the principle of politics. I will support these amendments, which give the possibility of a referendum decision to individual parts or to different local communities, because in any way, if we are talking about such an important matter, then the locals must also have the option of deciding and that their vote is considered accordingly. Politics is here for testing. The promises made in these stories by the setting up of new congregations of individual Members and Members behind them require a great deal of responsibility and will have consequences. I remember connecting a local municipal referendum when we decided not long ago in Tržič to hold a garbage disposal referendum. At that time, the words of Mr. Mayor and Minister Podobnik were such that they would respect the will of the inhabitants of the local community as well as of the population within the municipality. But once the referendum was concluded, the eminent gentlemen forgot about these pre-election promises, moves and things at the moment. And that's what this is all about. It is not that we are talking about who deserves the municipality, who does not, because all the people of Slovenia have their own municipality, but the other thing is whether we are satisfied or not with the municipality, and that all and all parts of the municipalities have the same option of referendum decision and that their vote everywhere counts the same. As with this famous referendum story, the local problem is evidently the voice of one who is 25 kilometers away from the dump is worth just as much as the voice of one who lives 400 meters from the dump and smokes under his nose. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. The broad debate about the new municipalities, which are supposed to be created at the will of the people and for the people, and in particular so that people can achieve more and better on one side of the needs on their basic organisational cell, and on the other hand those services and services that they expect from local and, of course, all the higher organisations also belong to them, unfortunately in many cases disappear and hide under the cover of this democracy. As a concrete example, I will not touch all the cases, I only mention the newly formed congregation of Apache, where the referendum has shown a clear will and where most people want a new congregation, but unfortunately not in the whole area. If we want to get close to this, this will of the people, then it would make sense not to sound so arrogantly, but on the committee itself in the field to suppress all attempts, to give people the opportunity to be organized, and to live in the congregation in which they want to live. Thus, there is no longer any formal possibility here in the debate and later in the decision before the National Assembly of the Lutwerci Congregation, to give the municipality the opportunity to stay in the municipality of Gornja Radgon. This desire and their decision were clearly and clearly expressed in the referendum itself. All I have here is information, although the candidate of the municipality, Mr Sok, is nodding. At the referendum, 300 of the 400 voters enrolled in the electoral directory came to vote. 84 voters voted against 215 to establish a new congregation. So we see that 71 percent or more of the voters will be dissatisfied with the new congregation organization. I find it difficult to accept the interpretation and the facts, and also this further procedure, that after the establishment of the new congregation, they can always decide at the new referendum to choose from this congregation and move to another congregation, because they are already in the congregation of Gornja Radgon and are now being forced into a new congregation because of the so-called referendum area, from which they will then have to go back to where they want to go after all the long-lasting and neither cheap procedures. Everyone who knows this thing better knows how difficult it is, and it's virtually impossible in such a short time. Sorry, that reminds me too much of that "bags up, suitcases down." As a result, I cannot agree and support such decisions. I appeal to all candidates of the new municipalities not to be so arrogant in achieving their goal. Let them take into account what people want, for it will not be least good for them as a proponent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I have to explain this one more time because Dr. Slavinac wasn't here before when I said that. The Lutver people did not vote in favour of being expelled from the local community of Apache; they voted against the congregation of Apache. Now you cannot simply turn this result into that they voted to exclude from the local community of Apache. You'll understand that. And explain to those who propose such amendments. If they proposed an amendment to raise this issue specifically and to vote on exclusion, it is said that the two referendum questions would be, then I, as a motioner, would argue to you here, put such an amendment, because this municipality of Apache is not in any danger to you, as far as the number of inhabitants is concerned. However, because they have not done so, they cannot now interpret this result as they have, and on this basis you have also tabled an amendment, but this will of your amendment is, of course, not verified in the field among the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you. You want procedural? No, you weren't appointed. There's no replica to the replica. But you weren't named after Mr. Slavinac. I apologize for skipping two Members of Parliament by mistake earlier. Mr Kramberger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Many of the things we hear here today in the debates have already been heard when we discussed proposals for a referendum area for those congregations where there have already been referendums. I would not repeat myself here too much, I would like to say that the Constitutional Court has decided as it is, because I think it is the same and that our local self-government committee has also added three proposals which have failed for legal and formal reasons in the Constitutional Court. I am pleased that today we will also vote on these eight referendum areas, and I think and I am sure that these new congregations will if people make a positive decision that successful congregations will be as successful as other smaller congregations established in previous periods. However, the time may come when we will begin to discuss the competences of small and large congregations. That is, of course, another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Local self-government is certainly very important, important for development, for living in an area organised in the congregation. This is shown everywhere, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere. The fact is that we must encourage action at this level and enable the municipalities to carry out their functions. Unfortunately, there have been many different approaches to local organisation in the past. So we have municipalities that have a few hundred people, and we have municipalities that have one hundred thousand and two hundred thousand people. In this area, we have tried to set a border in this mandate, and with the change of law, the number of people in the municipality has been limited to 5,000 and, under certain conditions, to 2,000. Whether this is the right measure or not or it could be more or less here, opinions are shared. Some who want their own congregation have been affected by this limit of 2,000, but the national assembly has had to make a decision and the decision is just that and is valid for everyone. And it was this criterion that we followed when we considered a number of suggestions for the new congregations. I think we did the right thing by taking the principle view that there will be no exceptions and that we will strictly respect all the legal criteria. According to our explanation at the time of our decision, one of the conditions for establishing a congregation in addition to the number of inhabitants was also a health home. With the belief that we are doing the right thing, we have also eliminated all those proposals that did not have a healthcare home and have not been included in the list of potential new congregations. The Constitutional Court, which assessed the appeal of the five municipalities which complained, decided as it is, and it is perfectly logical and normal that we then respected this decision of the Constitutional Court on the local self-government committee. I think it is also right that, despite the fact that the three congregations that meet all the other conditions, we should also place these congregations on this list, because it would be completely illogical and unfair to support the proposal to set up five congregations, and the three congregations, which also meet the same conditions, would simply stop. I therefore support this decree on the invitation to tender for a referendum and for the division, or for the modification of the areas for eight municipalities. I would say this again, given some opinion that we had taken decisions at the legal border and that there were no criteria, all of these proposals were examined in detail at the first stage of the procedure and were eliminated solely because they did not have a healthcare home. I therefore think that neither the government nor the local self-government committee has made a decision on the basis of criteria, but has only adapted its decision to the decision of the Constitutional Court. As far as the establishment of the congregations is concerned. We are not establishing municipalities today, but we are only giving citizens the opportunity to speak about it. And if the decision is positive, if the majority are in favour, then I hope that this decision will also be taken by this national assembly, as in the previous 12 municipalities, the purpose of this decision is to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Honourable Minister with fellow Members and Members and also present on the balcony! Today, the National Assembly has a retrial, not a congregation. I must say that I am not very happy with these correctional exams, but I am happy about the congregation that I have previously defended or spoken at the December session that it would be appropriate to give it and sign a referendum. However, I would like to say something to some Members who claim that they should be candidates or municipal councils or saints of local communities. I don't know, maybe you ascribed local communities or villages on your own behalf and just accidentally connected them. I have done this exclusively on the initiative or with the conclusions of the local community. And that's what I want to say to the public today. All those who have also had my statements and leaflets have also been informed in time, as well as the mayor behind this, from my congregation, and he could also act as Mr Švagan for Islake, I think, and today would be less trouble. It is true, though, that those who have done nothing for the new congregations today still have no problems and problems and at least a replica. As it is said, some have also asked, including from a large congregation, that the Member is extremely loud, but above all I fear that there was not enough in his trousers to put forward a proposal for a new congregation because he did not have a healthcare home, and he is said to have 5,000 inhabitants, but they were afraid to break this liberal fortress. As far as Schentrupert is concerned, I have nothing new to say. I was already at the December session defending it, it was once a municipality, it is surrounded by more than 2,000 inhabitants, but it does not have this unfortunate healthcare home, and it is clear that we will today support this proposal for the referendum to be signed. In Nova Slovenije we see in new municipalities an opportunity for faster development, to decide about ourselves. A larger number of saints will receive this account, such as this local community, which has only one municipal councillor, who has been running for them since 26, or, say, that congregation that is supposed to be established today, and that local community already has a few terms of reference for any kind of a saint. It seems to me that those who stand behind these demonstrators today are actually against them to develop so that they can decide for themselves. As we say, we see an opportunity for development to work for themselves, but it is certainly not cow trading, or "shit" as some Members express themselves in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Žnidaršič, you were appointed? I have not noticed, Mr Žnidaršič, that they would be misquoted to be misquoted. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, both points are somehow mixed and many have already discussed on the basis of what we are dealing with, but this is 8 additional proposals based on a Constitutional Court decision. These topics are very closely linked. In this regard, I have already expressed the hope, when presenting the opinion of the Group of Members, that this time these proposals, I hope that the members of the Committee, as well as the Members and Members, have all the material at our disposal. I will say again that there is a demonstration here that he was already in Parliament in October, because it was discussed earlier about the municipality of Apache and the village of Lutwerci, that there was a document in Parliament on 25 October that I, as a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, had never seen in which the municipal council of Gornja Radgona, which otherwise agrees with the municipality of Apache, and where this settlement was not a problem and it was not weighed down because the Apaches have 3,800 inhabitants and there would be no problem that this would not force you here in the third decision explicitly asking that this settlement should not be classified as the new municipality of Apache. This letter was in Parliament, and I did not have it with me, and I received it today on 1 March, after this many debates began yesterday. I hope that this time, on these eight proposals, there is no new post in Parliament, any call by which the settlement wants to be separately identified by the referendum will, although, lastly, we have left the meeting in our parliamentary group to discuss this point in December, because it was not possible to propose or vote against such a will in particular areas where these initiatives were legitimate. And this black mark will remain forever in this process, and I think many will find it very difficult to vote on this matter today. As far as the proposal we have before us is concerned, it has been said several times today, or at the time of this procedure, which is quite long, at the time of the establishment of the congregations, that these are the last sighs, that there is no expectation of any particular large or many proposals in the future, and also of these 20 possible new congregations, would not be any special issue. Of course, there are also 20 new proposals in the 193 municipalities, according to my assessment. I'm even more concerned about this moment. In the light of the Constitutional Court’s decision, which, in fact, notwithstanding the fact that the law states that a medical station with a special indent should be a condition, it considers that if primary health care is regulated in any other way, it is no longer a condition that excludes an area for a new municipality. Such a decision actually opens the door wide at all points, not only on this one, but also on others. Last but not least, what we have written there is basic education, librarian activity and so on, all these activities are actually accessible to all Slovenes in some way and are not connected to a particular environment, but more or less, and for basic education and librarianism and health care in some way is taken care of in all environments. This means that, since we have the law that we have, from now on, procedures are constantly open, we have warned, procedures are open so that any area with 2,000 inhabitants can reach the national assembly, with a slightly longer procedure and persistence to its congregation. So I deeply agree with my colleague, the Intercessor, who said it must be done very quickly, and I hope that there was some wisdom in his debate, that this law should be dealt with very quickly and that it should be dealt with again, because otherwise I say that the Constitutional Court has given us a big slap. There are no criteria, except for the 2,000 inhabitants, no longer and no longer exist. Nothing at all. For with certain exercise can any area and any criteria be met. This is the thing I'm worried about. I hope that the coalition is also concerned and that we will be able to write here some solid criteria and write as soon as possible into the new law that we will finally have a story that will not be challenged every time in the Constitutional Court. This Decision is also interesting in one point. In fact, the Constitutional Court has given us the knowledge that we are enough and that they no longer want to decide these matters. They also gave us a year to determine another form of legal protection and not to go or to the Constitutional Court. Obviously they have us and the instigators and all of them, and I think that in one year we will have to find and crack a very hard nut where to find adequate legal protection if it is no longer a constitutional court. If I keep going, I'd like to say that. Once again, the material before us today is on the verge of legality, legality, legitimacy. When we came to the committee, we had neither the government's opinion nor the material nor the proposal for conclusions nor any text, but we started this debate. And then the report also correctly states that we have actually considered the informal opinion of the government at the meeting - of course, this opinion was later verified, the Minister has also confirmed and we believe him, and I think that there is nothing wrong with it. But I mean, if we're just some MEPs, but some of the committee presidents are incompetent. It was absolutely impossible how we started this meeting. Of course, this meeting ended later, and I left it myself, because I thought it was already completely over and that there were conclusions, we were watching the legislative work, whether it would help or not, so I hope that it would never happen again. [[...]] And if you look at the government's opinion today, it's now officially here, in this government's opinion there's only five congregations, the other three there's nothing written about, because then the government didn't know that we'd be looking at three more. This is also an open question today. And what I think is also controversial in this opinion is that, while the government has accepted a very correct assessment in general - that health care can be implemented in other forms, or that citizens have many other opportunities to provide health care in a common way, including with a common healthcare home and so on. However, the Constitutional Court has written down, for each particular case, specifically to reexplain - this has not been done. But it's true that today it's made like this. And then all of this was actually done with the great ingenuity of the legislative and legal service that we, I think, could all be grateful, especially the ruling coalition that this service brought out of this "zos". And with all this legal lurking, then this matter, according to my assessment, has been prepared today in what is right, and it can be seen that the proposals are also individually explained. We did not do this at the board meeting, and we did not have a suitable basis, I say. So once again, this stain remains in this story, and we will still support these proposals today; that is our duty. Once again, I stress that there are no further cases of people coming before the National Assembly to express their will. Well, we were so kind, or our police, that these people who protested there, I think there were about a hundred of them, reported the media, even in depth. In short, in this society it is no longer desirable for anyone to say that someone was playing him, that someone was playing him, that someone was turning him around, driving him thirsty over the water, as in this case, I'm sure. Trebel's event. But people have now received a message: if you protest, you will also pay a little. And these people out there yesterday were reportedly also ingrained by the police because they did not report the event or the public meeting in time. But I don't think they had time for that either, given that they found out we were meeting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you. A representative of the government, Mr Rokavec, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Perhaps there are some legitimate explanations to this preliminary discussion. With regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning those five initiators, the government reacted extremely quickly. I can honestly say that. The Constitutional Court, by its decision of the previous Thursday, said that in four working days the Government had drawn up an opinion throughout the whole government procedure, in which it also made clear the reasons for its opinion on the decision of the National Assembly. If it is logistical, because the government adopted this decree around 12 a.m., and the Council of State for Local Self-Government met at 3 p.m., if the logistic opinion did not reach the National Assembly in those four hours, we have already had an opinion on the table within the Government's Service for Local Self-Government and have also forwarded it to the Committee. If this is such a problem, it can also be made out of an elephant fly. It's possible to make it out of this elephant fly. However, Mrs Orzmova, you can claim that the government's opinion in this case is correct. And secondly, what is unfair on your part is that the whole decision was made on the basis of the assistance of the legislative and legal service, but probably also large assistance from government representatives. Otherwise, perhaps even the Roman five in this decree would not be, and then they would probably be very embarrassed. I also estimate that the Roman five is probably in the wrong order. You should probably be under Roman one. In fact, one specific decision must first be repealed and only then the decree should be declared, not the other way around. But it's just by the way. Now there's that comment about the criteria. If the law on local self-government and that notable article 13a had not been amended, we would not have had 2,000 inhabitants. Since the exceptions were established under the existing law without the prescribed minimum number of inhabitants. And the Constitutional Court has made it clear, I agree, that only the so-called critical mass, or the number of inhabitants, is the credible criterion to which we can turn at this point. And probably a step forward has been taken here, certainly not a step back, although this is likely to be reported several times in this period after the amendment of the Law. Before the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, it was number 5,000, but it still had exceptions that did not have a defined minimum. The new law on local self-government has laid down a minimum of 2,000. Each person can create any kind of self, whether it's large enough critical mass or not. The legislator here always has the right to define this minimum critical mass. He will probably also have it in the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision this year, which follows or I believe that before that, but the Constitutional Court here has made it clear that the legislator acted in a certain manner. Of course, the critical mass is the assessment of this respected congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Rupar responded to the replica. Were you appointed by Zalokar's side? Is it quoted? As chairman of the committee, yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I must say that there were no comments at the meeting itself, nor did I later receive any protest, not in writing, nor orally, except today from colleague Zalokareva, probably because it seems to her that she seemed a little small, because of course she was attacking her previous speech and the participation of the priests, but of course she did not cash what she wanted from this title, and today she is sentenced to chairing the session perhaps her revenge. Let me say that she also did not declare that she was leaving the meeting because of poor conduct, but she said that the meeting or materials were incomplete, that we did not have an opinion from the government and that she could not participate in such a meeting. In a few moments, she left the session without comment. The result is probably exactly the same as when we voted on those congregations that we have confirmed today. The establishment of congregations is also a responsibility. This responsibility is, of course, summarized or summarized by individual investors, to whom they are reading everything possible today. This responsibility, of course, is not small, and both the departure of the LDS from the previous meeting and the departure from the last vote by the Local Self-Government Committee when these eight new initiatives are adopted, are cowardice and fear of responsibility. This is also evident from performances and attacks. Now we're somewhere for the Roman Spas in LDS, somewhere you're against Trebelna and Mokronoga, where you obviously have to put your guilty words in order to "cassify" somewhere, there we are for this and that, but of course not Zalokar's only. This is how many LDS operate, including Sayovic, which I will tell him later. Now it is only by lying to the press, after oral statements in the courts, that he is also lying in Parliament, that I am not talking about the congregation at all. What's more, later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u238	Mr. Rupar, you didn't just have a replica, but you did. Please do not extend this replica to other Members who have spoken or mentioned you in any way. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Yeah, you can't replicate the replica. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if my respectable fellow Member Rupar's comment deserves a serious comment at all, but still. I think it would be good if some valuable judgments on others were maintained among themselves, especially if they were handed down in the way that Mr Rupar has now said. I intend to talk about the darkness myself. I do not intend to renew the story of local self-government, the municipalities, of a territorial organisation that I have renewed several times in this national assembly. What do we have in this first round of referendums? We've got wary neighbors, we've got wary villages, we've got wary mayors, we've got wary local communities. We have, you could say, a considerable amount of discontent. Some are congregations, others are not, and so on. This is the result of local self-government and this political action to make municipalities as small as possible in Slovenia. Bad, not only because some climate in the country is broken, if I may say so, but also because we are going unrelentingly along the path of an irrational social territorial organization. That's what I said the last time, and I'm saying it again today. The decision of the Constitutional Court also contributes to this trend. I must say that the Constitutional Court is usually also decided on the basis of opinions sent by the Government and the National Assembly, probably the Constitutional Court has also applied, the government has replied. I don't know how to answer that. I have to admit, I didn't look at it. I'm not a member of this committee. But I conclude from the explanation what that answer was. I am afraid that the Constitutional Court's judgment is also because perhaps the government, I say, did not have a good idea of the answer why a healthcare home could and must be a criterion in addition to other criteria for determining municipalities, 2,000 inhabitants and so on. What did the Constitutional Court do? The Constitutional Court, where recognized lawyers are all confessions, has made some kind of professional error. From the point of view of spatial science, if you will. Professionally in terms of geography, sociology, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] economics and the like. Why? Because it said that the question of the new congregation was related to whether health care was provided in the new congregations. That's not even a topic. Today, all have health care in the old congregations, and they will also have it in the new congregations. But the medical home has nothing to do with it. The condition of the healthcare home has to do with what is called the centrality theory, centrality. Medical home, school, kindergarten, I do not know everything, 2,000 inhabitants, which is a little strange criteria and the like, are defined here as some criteria for the centrality of a place that meets the needs of a place and territory where its congregation is located. Since you could not say that the healthcare home is one of the criteria that speaks of the degree of centrality of the place, the Constitutional Court has, of course, ruled as it is. Let me say again: more than some institutions in one place, the more specialized, the more people, the more they meet the needs and the greater the degree of centrality. The degree of centrality is defined at a lower level as health care, school, kindergartens, etc. What is the meaning of the municipality b., for example, call the municipality b., what is the meaning of the municipality b., whose population satisfies, so to speak, all their living needs in the municipality a. None, except the irrational organization. Since the government obviously did not know how to report this to the Constitutional Court, apparently the Constitutional Court ruled on the basis of a criterion, I would say the same possibilities to provide health care and in fact, as stated by Coll. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, annulled all the criteria of centrality, school, including kindergarten, health station, etc., by leaving only the most ridiculous criterion, that is, the 2,000 inhabitants, which I said was meaningless in this sense, and that I fully support some municipalities, which are less than 2,000 people, who have some specific characteristics, a mountain congregation with special meaning, with particular tradition, history or specificities. Thus, of course, we have fallen on our own, and I am joining what my colleague Presečnik has said, has also repeated the Tsveta Zalokar Orazem, and we must go to the law on local self-government as soon as possible and redefine again in these new conditions, what is what we can establish or not a new congregation on the basis of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. At the same time, thanks to the President of the National Assembly for its leadership so far. I'll take Mr. Janc's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am quite pleased this local day in the National Assembly, where we are discussing not so much the problems that plague us in local communities, but the new congregations. I think that today is a good day in Parliament at the time that we are in, and that at the previous point of the 12 congregations, if I understand correctly, we have somehow all agreed to support, because the people in the electorate have decided as they have decided, and we already have in fact confirmed 12 new congregations that will go their separate ways. Why such decisions were in these circumstances to go their separate ways is likely to be more, but I think this is also a way, an appeal to local communities and leaders, why these congregations are divided from existing congregations. They probably have reasons for that. Some may be that the will of people in a smaller territory is easier to achieve, others are faster economic development, and others are quite common, but this is likely to have been neglected and want to do so. Fourth time. Many experiences of Slovenian space with small municipalities are proof of success, story of success. There are few where I come from, where after the independence of the independent congregation they have been extremely successful and good examples are also drawn on. And it is probably one of those main arguments for which certain local communities, certain individuals and certain initiatives go in this direction to want their own congregation. The wrong world would be to protect me from what is human will. Local self-government is at the heart of the region's development and, last but not least, of the whole country. And if this works well, for the benefit of all the people who live there, and that people feel good about it and that they are looking for their interests, then in this Slovenia it will certainly be, believe me, more beautiful and more friendly. Eight congregations, we are talking about this story that we have already confirmed. Unfortunately, this unfortunate health care home, which had such or other bad luck, was already warned that the Constitutional Court is likely to have certain concerns here, and that is what happened. Today's the juvie exam. This is not a great sin, but it is only right to correct it today to give all these eight candidates the opportunity to make the will expressed in future referendums a decision. Maybe all eight of us, maybe not, that's a matter of people's will to decide, and then we come back to Parliament and we decide about these congregations. Last but not least, there are 193 congregations today, plus 12 are already so many, plus, maximum, eight, so 213 congregations for Slovenia are not excessively sinful in the number of congregations. Last but not least, this is also the end of the will expressed by people and, last but not least, there will be no significant increase in this country's budgetary expenditure. Even if it will, it will be so that some things go faster because years ago they were neglected, neglected and they are behind the other centres of the existing Slovenian municipalities. To talk about the 56 provinces of 30 municipalities, I don't think that's right. We know very well that we are about to face the provinces in this House as soon as possible. I hope that this will be one story this year and that probably some numbers are already more or less those that I think are acceptable to the government and this Parliament. From the 30 municipalities, this is certainly a number that is exaggerated, which is unrealistic and I don't think it will ever happen in Slovenia. Even if there will be more than 213, there will be no harm. Why are we so afraid of this? I don't know why you're afraid of the new little congregations. If we have proof of the past ten years, these are successful stories. That they're good, that they did it, and so on. It is true that they do not have their own income, indeed they do not have much to do with the state budget, but believe me, these small congregations can be good masters, better masters, together they will step up and make a lot of this story that they have obviously failed in the existing municipalities. Believe me, if there had been such success there, I doubt that any of these congregations would have been divided into their own congregation. And I'm not just talking about my congregation because these rumors weren't even at the bar. But probably also because I'm trying to be mayor. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the whole territory of the municipalities, which we are covering to try to give everyone a certain part of the development potential, whether they are so or not. [[...]] But I would not now blame my fellow mayors who may not have been careful enough or perhaps have been a little misled or the municipal councillors have not followed the mayor and so on. But that's another story. I'd just say so. Slovenia is a small country, but it is extremely diverse, extremely specific, differences go from the congregation to the congregation, not to speak from small, medium, large, urban. These are crazy differences. It's hard to compare one congregation, I don't know, Isolo, but one congregation of Sevnica. Not to mention those small congregations, the big congregations. And what my colleagues have already confirmed before me, we must correct this story as soon as possible, unfortunately this legislation is not good. She's not good. She's bad. And in the ten years of experience of local self-government, we have all learned a lot together in Slovenia. Thus, the mayors, both parliamentarians and so the government, and let us try for the next term, once this sheet is reopened, to correct this story, so that there will be as few constitutional assessments as possible and that this legislation will be as clear and defined as possible, although of course there will always be some other matter to escape, so that it comes back to constitutional judgment. We let people decide. And if they want to have their congregation, let them have it and see progress in this, not only those municipalities that will be new, but also regions and Slovenia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, this topic is one of those things where the coalition can no longer plead with the former authorities. Several members of the ruling coalition are calling for an early amendment of the law on local self-government. However, the legislation in question, which is the basis for the establishment of new municipalities, has just been amended in this mandate. So you've adopted an unquality marriage. What conclusion can we draw from what happened and from today’s debate? The financing of municipalities is not arranged, it is worth having a small municipality, the only criteria for establishing the municipality is the referendum will and 2,000 people. There's no other way. So, the message for all local, local, local, local communities and parishes in Slovenia is: scratch 2,000 people whenever you ask for a municipality, convince people and if they do not suit you, you will go to the Constitutional Court, and the National Assembly has no reason not to suit you. And we can quickly calculate how many municipalities in Slovenia we can "scratch" together. We have been brought here by a policy, totally non-systemic, which has had the only desire for the greatest possible fragmentation of Slovenia, which is still continuing, although we know that the former municipal system was not so bad that a number of countries in the European Union, to which we have joined, have been systematically regulated also to promote the integration of municipalities - and we are still speeding in a way that is in fact obsolete. And we still refer to some rights and so on. Criterion's gone. The system's broken. Of course, I hope that we will all learn something from this together, that the ruling coalition will realize that this is not going to work, and ultimately that there will also be financial consequences - because it is also necessary to supply this municipality with financial compensation - that we will not be able to sustain it. However, I have brought us this headless and non-systemic policy of fragmentation of Slovenia, which the current ruling coalition, even when in the opposition, we know, has always supported and consistently encouraged. Of course, I hope that this lesson will be quite encouraging for you as well and that you will be aware and will soon join a system that will be closer to the European Union, which we are all advocating together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! Local self-government, legislation, the establishment of municipalities - a story that has a long tradition, is 12 years old. In 1994, the National Assembly, in which the LDS coalition and the United List had adopted a law on local self-government, which we had already told him was a law on political barns, that it was a law on political action, that it was a law "for ours will be so, for yours it will not". In short, this government coalition, which changed the law a while ago, is the only one that introduced the restrictive instrument in Article 13a. Until then, of course, there was no restriction until this law was amended. That's why the ruling coalition could establish municipalities with 200 and 300 inhabitants because a political party came into force for good sausage and wine and said, "You know what, you're so nice that we'll give you a congregation." Because someone could sleep somewhere, and he thought it was nice if it was closed with the municipal fences and so on. The fact is that this law was non-systematic and allowed for all the options that individual politicians wanted. The law now adopted is restrictive, although I personally do not agree with such a limitation in 2000, but it is, and this must be respected. That she was such and that this should be respected, the Constitutional Court also said. I am pleased that there was so much wisdom and wisdom in this government coalition that, along with the five that the Constitutional Court decided that it was necessary to scrutinise and determine whether they also met the other conditions, the National Assembly and the government coalition found that this was also met by the other three who had not complained. This was based on a table that we had before the first debate and the establishment or call for referendum areas because it was the only one not right in healthcare. Regrettably, this was not known, or that more citizens and citizens were not aware of it, even in those areas that want to establish independent congregations and decide where they live. I am sure that this will develop there, as originally planned in 1994. If the Slovenian Christian Democrats were then to be heard and the congregations were to be established within that framework, they would have ended this story long ago. That this is indeed one of the positive stories, and, colleagues and colleagues, proves that to date there has not been a single proposal in the National Assembly for an end, a merger and so on. It's not about Europe either, it's not about bringing together congregations, it's about something else, it's about upgrading it, it's about cooperation. Where there are capable and smart people, that's where it's happening, and there's the country girls and the natives who have some of it. The main thing is that this is very well arranged on the periphery. The municipalities do not depend on how large the number of people they have depends on what mayor they have, what municipal council they have, how the mayor and the municipal council were able to set up the administration, how they can work with societies, institutions and so on. That's what it depends on. Let's look at the development, the flourishing development, like the cities of Celje, how well they prosper. Now let's look on the other side, say the two biggest cities, Maribor and Ljubljana. Corruption in all areas, in land policy, in financial policy, in human resources policy. Yes, colleagues and colleagues! I really care when I listen to the flowers of our Flower, how a congregation began to fall behind in Montenegro. I expect that before the new term of office, initiatives will also come from this congregation to divide it into that healthy core and the rest, and, colleagues and colleagues, the life and work in the municipalities, as well as in all other institutions, civil society, etc. Depends on the people, on those who, at the time, have either a political function or a function of trust of a trustworthy person who can coordinate this, who can connect, who can participate. And some of you just can't understand it because you'd just tear it apart all the time because you'd survive the way it used to be. Just look at what happened, damage to social property, 100,000 people you sent to the roads, because today there are some fat, meaty spots, you know, at the expense of 100,000 other people. And of course it would be, even more so if we did not have the local self-government we have. And to talk about the need to power small congregations with some financial support, etc., is not true. That's not true. That's a clean lie. That's a lie, mate. In this National Assembly, a change in income from 30 to 35% was adopted under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy. Yeah, sure. What's important to a worker in who earned, I don't know, 70,000 tolars. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u246	Mr Pukšič, it is difficult to see the link between income and the decision on local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u247	Mr Vice-President, I am talking about the law on the financing of municipalities. And if you didn't know, I'd be happy to explain it to you again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u248	That's not a theme. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u249	that the main source of funding for municipalities is exactly 35% of the income. [[...]] Of course, there's a connection. Those who say that financial support is needed with some balancings, etc. are not true. The system is so set up that the largest municipality of Ljubljana [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u250	Mr. Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u251	age over 35 [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u252	I can remind you that we are at point 20a on the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is exactly what I am talking about, so I am pleased that this political coalition has come to know and also has included three additional municipalities in these referendum areas that were not on the Constitutional Court's decision. However, I would certainly like to remind you or remind you, Mr Vice-President, that it would be good if, in the debate of the Member of the Flower, she were reminded that the Apache were not in that decision she was talking about. And I'm talking about how this funding system is going to work and how the community system works.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u254	Mr. Puksich, this was a little too much. I must remind you that during the discussion of colleague Zalokar Orazem, I did not lead the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u255	Sir, the vice president, I'm sorry. But he's the one who forgot to warn. I'm sorry. I'm taking the criticism back at this point of course. It is also important for colleagues and colleagues to say that the previous coalition was founded by 193 municipalities because of a law that could have been called the Stale. This coalition, which has always supported the establishment of small congregations that supported healthy cores, establishes only 20 congregations. I don't know what you're waiting for, colleagues! Indeed, we will have to put this point on the agenda once again and give citizens and citizens the opportunity to have such environments in which they will create and answer themselves and make their lives in those environments in which they live, not that some great gentlemen from the cities dictate whether there will be a salt road or a school there and so on. Today, in 12 years it has been proven that this is the only way we have started to develop the whole country, not just the centres. Our coalition has a coherent, even development in the programme, and we are also doing so by setting up these municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u257	Yeah, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u258	Outside of my presidency [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u259	I have to get my word on this. [[...]] I think that I have been mentioned in one way or another in a funny way, and I am putting down "flowers", then Mr Pukšič also knows what Mr Pukšič is launching, perhaps some "pukce". I don't think I'm gonna be much of a nuisance. I would only say that, in the previous term, the coalition established only one new municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania. So about how many congregations were established. Otherwise, at a committee meeting, I said, if you look at the votes, how the congregations were formed. During the entire period since 1994, there have been completely false coalitions in the voting process, in which no single coalition has been explicitly involved, but coalitions of Members have been created according to their interests. I already said at the committee meeting that I had not been a member of this Parliament before, I was only involved in the establishment of the Šmartno municipality in Lithuania, not with the others. In short, if you review the vote, the blame is for the non-essential votes and for the various such and different exercises that have taken place, divided very evenly by this national assembly and by individual parliamentary groups, by saying that only one option has created all this crowd of municipalities, I do not think that is correct. Secondly, what I would say about material development, I think it is true and I have never disputed that municipalities in Slovenia are not only small and not only large, all municipalities have achieved great development in the past 12 years. The smaller congregations have also blossomed in some way, and this is evident at every step. I don't think there's any doubt about that. All of this was done, paid, financed by those funds that the State had then dedicated to it and those budgets. Here it seems to me that what I constantly warn and insist on is that we can still have congregations very, very large, there may be so many that a person might say, as was once said, "I am a purely local community, but I would like to be a congregation". Shortcut [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u260	It's three minutes for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u261	As soon as possible, all local communities will become congregations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I hope that there is no link between my holding of the meeting and the various "pavlihov statements" which are obviously not lacking in this National Assembly. We continue the debate and it is Mr Kangler's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! I've been very interested in hearing this debate for the last 20 minutes. I also need to replicate a few things with my colleague Pukšič. Replicate in that part because the Slovenian People's Party has been in the government since I was in the National Assembly. And as for the work of the Slovenian People's Party, in the government, at least in the field of local self-government, the image is clear enough and transparent enough and my colleague Pukšič would not have gotten it if he had not been the Slovenian People's Party in the government and so transparent and so normal that I could express myself so, not in the village of Trnovo, not in Vitomarci. And this colleague Pukšič can confirm that we have followed the will of the people and also his will. It is therefore necessary to distinguish such or different coalitions or individual parts of the coalition. True, though, if we did not agree to do so in the coalition, we would not have received those congregations. And the Slovenian People's Party with then Minister Grafenauer, and with some others then in another government, has worked to do so. And that is to be stressed in this place. And secondly, dear colleagues and colleagues, some of you have been in position for eight years, today you've all forgotten what you were saying. Also today, be clear and clear about who is the one who sets the criteria, which are those segments that allow the establishment of new congregations and do not allow. It is not that easy to come, but on average we will have 300 municipalities in Slovenia today. You need to coordinate with the Finance Minister, you need to coordinate with the Prime Minister, with the existing Minister, with the parliamentary groups, in the coalition, in accordance with the law, to introduce some other acts and so forth. Today, however, everyone here forgets why people flee to establish new congregations. Because those of you who have been in position for eight years have forgotten the word decentralisation. That's the problem. One year, and we're even more in the government, and we ask ourselves, decentralisation. Because it is only in this that people see that there are certain means available to them, that in some local community they can decide their own image, their own destiny, their public good and similar things could be mentioned. But it is up to us and all those, regardless of position or opposition, or the previous or previous government, who are now the new government and must pursue some political objectives. And here I see the first goal that has to be is decentralisation. The word decentralisation came out of the ears of all or most of the members of the government. And that hurts a lot to me today. In the area of decentralisation, we can see that some things do not move either in the field of human resources or in the financial field. We have capital, economy, public finances, governance and decision-making, all concentrated in one place. And then don't be surprised that people want to have their own local self-government. And today I have no choice but to support the decree we have on the table and follow the ruling of the Constitutional Court. I myself have proposed the establishment of two congregations, and I must confirm this today, Good Field and Polhov Gradec. Who are we going to blame? A good field because the referendum will was voted on, or the Polhove Gradz, where they do not want their own congregation? That's a big question. I don't want to hold a grudge against one another or the other. But to those who have asked me from the Good Field to take the initiative, we will do the most injustice to them because the referendum was supported there with a large majority. But because of the procedure, because no article has been amended, we cannot table an amendment. Of course, some people find it funny when we talk about local communities, but to be honest, let's listen for a while to the local cell on the ground. And that's the problem. Many times, I must say, I'm disappointed in some of the moves. Since I've been in politics for ten years, I know most of you pretty well, but I know almost every one of you, or at least after the magnetograms, what anyone was saying, whether he was in the government or in the opposition, about a year ago, two years ago, four, six or eight years ago. Today, though, the image of us is similar or different. That's the problem. We have the opportunity, we have the opportunity, and now let us give this opportunity to those people who want the congregations. And if the Constitutional Court so decides, we follow the will of this decision. That's the problem. And let us not change here, the opposition or the coalition, or who will propose changes to the existing law or not. We're talking about landscapes, decentralisation, regions and the like. The country doesn't do me any good if you don't give me any money, no management, no legislative area. I don't need a province to satisfy someone in Ljubljana or Brussels, to have a paper and have a straw landscape, and one head, without money, without power, without finances, without legislative procedure and so on. But show me those ministries or ministers that want to move certain tasks and functions from the ministries to regions or landscapes, which are those tasks. And the second question is, how many of them will be left without jobs in the capital because we do not need such bureaucracy in this place anymore. That's the problem, so it doesn't come to that. Therefore, there is no decentralisation because there is no political will. It has to be political will. And when the political will comes and the decentralisation takes place, the aspirations for the establishment of new congregations will be smaller than they are now. I myself have proposed the merger of two congregations and the establishment of one, the integration of one local community into the newly formed congregation. In view of the fact that representatives of two municipalities and one of the local communities in Kočevska have argued with each other, I withdrew my signature because I do not wish to act beyond the will of the people or representatives of the local community. However, I can honestly tell you that a good congregation like this would be to unite the two congregations and another local community in order to make one round whole and thus help those places to come to some of the projects, tasks and resources available from the European Union. One small municipality is difficult to afford documentation and a similar and financial plan and some projects where it has to provide, in accordance with certain regulations, for example, up to 50% of the co-financing of certain programmes. On the other hand, people need to be trusted and given local codecision or decision-making. And I'm gonna end it. However, I remind you that it would be good for some individuals to see, read, and follow some of the propaganda materials from the last elections in 2004. Above all, I think that we are also starting to talk in the coalition about the decentralisation that is urgently needed for this country. The citizen who lives in Prekmurje, Styria, Koroškem or White Krajina is a completely equal citizen than anyone who lives in Gorenjska, Dolenjska or Ljubljana, the capital. However, if you ask these people who are looking for an opportunity or opportunity in central Slovenia in any way, they do not feel that they are equal citizens, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allows them to do so and also ensures that we are exactly the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I need to find that this debate has almost become uninteresting or ridiculous or even a little stupid. One thing could be said by coalition colleagues, because now the last discussers are actually telling themselves and their government. I will appoint my colleague Pukšič; he can see that he has recently come to Parliament and that this government or his party has tightened the conditions that they are such that it is not possible to establish municipalities from below 2 000 inhabitants. It is just a matter of the way it is, and this should be discussed between you when you were lowering or concreteizing the criteria. The second is that I come from an area where we have the most congregations. I am among you who in his constituency has the highest number of municipalities and the most economic problems, the lowest national income, the highest indebtedness of the municipalities, etc. Again, I would tell some of my colleagues, government colleagues, that because it was the kind of authority that used to do this and that. Many of you also went to Prekmurje for ham, a liter of wine, you promised, and the problem is that nothing happened this year. Nothing new, nothing less, nothing at all. All the promises made in recent years do not come true. So they don't say I'm making it up: hospital, undercarriage, high school construction, upgrading other schools. There were programs. It's all stopped. There's no money. Also, the fellow Member who was with you had an awkward function that he had to say, no money, you have to wait a few years. It's a story that can be so different. It is likely that from all that we are telling here today, the problem of the former and present governments is that the jurisdiction of the congregations from small to urban has not been ranked. And if I had never been able to reach these small congregations in a consensus that was never possible, you have already listed this story a hundred times today that there were no consensus and that everyone has been drawn to their side, but we have all been with, government and opposition, and we have all worked together probably more than today it has not been possible to set the criteria for, say, small congregations at the level of good local or larger local communities, and so on. And that's how it is today. As a result, various problems have contributed to the development of infrastructure, village facilities, and partly water supply, which stops and so on. There are other economic problems. What is present with us. And arrangements in this direction are more difficult for many congregations than for a smaller number of congregations. Arrangements for joint development projects are much more difficult than those municipalities. The Constitutional Court has confused us at the point we are considering. You could also interpret why 2,000 if you don't need a healthcare home. And we could have made exceptions here, and we're back to where we were. And I don't envy the minister when he has to interpret very different opinions. When we know that he is basically the one who does not recognise the exception at all from under 5,000, he has to interpret once that all those who do not have 2,000 and all the conditions are not based on the law, but today he has to say that, despite everything, if they do not have all the conditions, that they do not have a health station to comply with the law. It's a nasty thing, but that's the way it is. We have 5 plus 3 today at this point in the agenda. There was an exception. You've all been jumping out of the agenda, and I'm gonna jump in for a second. On the local self-government committee, you had the amendment of colleague Slavinac, where with the same difficulty you could save the Lutwerce, who have an indication that they do not want to be in the Apache municipality and are leaning, not only on the municipality, the village of Radgono, and could be elegantly solved and the matter would be calm and acceptable. I defended the Apache congregation. Here I said that 3,800 or 3,500 inhabitants, one valley, the province has some conditions or a lot of conditions, anything you want. But once we're people's will, and then suddenly we're not to show what I know, our muscles or arrogance, if, not as you suggest, it won't be, even if it's against the will of the people. I don't think that's a good way. Draw some correlation between the municipalities as forts and political power, I don't think that's the way, there's no reason. When we look at the number of congregations and their formation and the number of us and the relationship between us sitting here, we see that this is not true. The flags on the forts are changing, the forts are left. The number of Members per party, so that I do not borrow now one or the other, varies in contrast to the number of municipalities, mayors and so on, which means that this is not true. And it's going to change. All other reasons could have been that political power relations were changing, the way municipalities were established, the mayors and so on. Where's the trend? In the congregations, in those who already function to force themselves into non-political. More and more mayors running on independent lists, if they did not tighten the threshold of 2% in the saints, the matter would go in the same direction and so much less likely to be political fortifications, which I think is local self-government, especially for small municipalities, entirely meaningful because we have led Slovenian politics in a direction that is not good. What am I gonna do here? I don't think I'm going to vote for either. The Constitutional Court has told us its own, and I have always respected it. Those three are a similar matter, otherwise it makes no sense to me, especially this long debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you, Chairman. I'm a member of, say, a group that designed a change of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u268	I beg your pardon, Mr. Rupar is the only one who speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u269	on the establishment of municipalities may be responsible for adopting, by their vote, influence, character, if you want, however, I was not convincing enough to adopt, in the coalition negotiation phase and later in the National Assembly, such a universal law that would in fact allow for the establishment of municipalities, but did not cause the various conflicts which, on the basis of the adopted law, led to changes in the law after Slovenia in the past period. [[...]] I take this responsibility because I feel that the law we have is a bad marriage. With this in mind, a number of fellow believers and fellow believers in good faith have tried with good intentions to do something as optimal as possible to satisfy the wishes of all those who wanted to change the boundaries of the congregations. It is our job, colleagues and colleagues, to agree on a new law as soon as possible and to draw up a new law that will simply nullify the various conflicts to the greatest extent possible, so that he has already refused them in some way that there will be no such nonsense as it is during this period. One of these nonsensees is also a warning, or a decision, of a Constitutional Court, where it is also in good faith, but in a fair sense we could not define whether now the health homes are those languages on the scale to give an opportunity to establish or sign a referendum or not. To the best of our ability, we did what the Constitutional Court later stated, a message to the National Assembly "consider once again what you did", but did not order us to call the referendums. That's what I don't think anyone's been paying any attention to today. However, the positive thing has happened in us that we have adopted one of the three options, from the worst to the fact that we do not confirm anything, until we confirm only five, most optimally that we are today deciding on eight new initiatives or calls for referendums, so that we are not arbitral, that we are not unjust and that it seems to me that the matter is only to be supported, so give these people the opportunity to decide at their referendums. We call upon all those who know in any way that there are already various conflicts for these congregations, these eight, to inquire of those who are competent in those congregations, and to make amendments in due time. This is still the time until the moment of decision not to get a number of clever colleagues and colleagues who proved themselves only when the battles were over, how wise they were and how they were poured with ashes, to do so now when the time is right. And also so that no one who does not understand the referendum law will perform so foolishly in this national assembly that he will claim that all the referendums are in fact the same and that part of a local community, however, if it is against, may pass the amendments and pass the will of this House saying that the referendum has failed nowhere. Well, it's not like the case we heard today is a mistake. It is the total ignorance of the law, although I would expect members of the National Assembly to know at least about the laws. It's about abuse and it's about a lie that someone spends on various local communities that manipulates itself, which has such sick and so desperate mad ambitions of becoming mayor, that they do everything they can to get to that position. However, this is certainly very pointless and very short-sighted and short-term. So I'm not surprised that, say, people who, after their last name, as we've heard before, call themselves the nebula, and in practice they're also called the "scissor", the "foot'crumb," by their home name, of course, from the famous river "the lie has short legs". Of course, I would like this national assembly, with all Members, to be as corrected as possible primarily as possible to the inhabitants and to demonstrate clearly and loudly its correctness in the statements between the peoples, in the courts, wherever it already appears. However, I once heard that politicians were allowed to do so. Well, and from this title, a lot of people hope to spend their lies in the spheres, as they did yesterday, when a part of the people of Trebel came before parliament, where someone was hurting them for another inhumane, I will even say a judgment worth saying that he got that applause for two minutes. I hope and wish that this National Assembly will see, in today's vote on these eight initiatives, that it is not only the people's wish, that there is also a founding court here, and that, finally, we who, let's face it, have missed the goodwill and purpose and that we have this path of extraordinary correction, which we will only do if we make a positive decision on today's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I'm asking for some attention to finish this debate. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you very much. With regard to the ruling, I would only like to express the satisfaction that the final Constitutional Court has decided something. Indeed, it is often the practice of the Constitutional Court to avoid decision-making, in particular as regards the local self-governments questioned. By this decision, it has shown that the law should serve people and not the people of law, and that the interpretation of the criteria must be taken from the current application of the law and practice of local self-government, which is different from the decision of the national assembly at the last decision, which is now, thank God, we are supplementing or adopting a new one for those eight cases which have been deprived of the right they have under the Constitution and under the rest of the legislation. With regard to the amendment, I will then further clarify my position in the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you. My silence only means watching who is not and who is not. [[...]] And there's quite a few of them, so I'd like to say to my colleague Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I will join myself in this debate, which I do not think is too long. It seems to me that local self-government, local legal arrangements, is a very important thing, so it is also appropriate to give it our time. Even because such things are particularly evident in the case of whom we are sitting here. As far as I am concerned, I am selected from the people and I want to work for them, so I still have the initiators and initiators for the areas that want to form their rounded local community. In fact, the closest contact with the government is actually local self-government. Therefore, it is so much more normal for them to be sensitive at this point as to how it is arranged and who also imposes solutions on them. I am going a lot among the people and I understand them, so I am appalled that the Chairman of the Local Self-Government Committee, their proposals, their efforts, their solutions, which, through the representative, the representatives in this case, through me, have tried to implement in Parliament. He marked them on the board with vulgarity, which, if not otherwise, he should have been ashamed. He may have tried to ease this matter a little today in his debate, but I am wondering about the sincerity of this debate. I am also amazed at some of the opinions, especially those of the colleagues who have themselves presented initiatives to this National Assembly. I wonder how they can doubt that these were not initiatives designed on the basis of people's will. My proposals have been fully established in accordance with and in accordance with the will of the initiative committees for the establishment of new municipalities. As has been said, some have been denied this possibility, this desire, and their long - standing will. That is why I would take a similar opportunity here, as did my colleague Prevc, and my colleague Rupar, when they asked the Minister to look again at the provisions of the law. I would say here myself, to look again and also to consider the possibility of setting a minimum lower limit of 2 000 inhabitants, which has also proved more than evident after these referendums, as an unrealistic solution, which, in practice, if we really want to follow the will, cannot be followed and therefore also such a result in the area of Polhove Grad, mentioned by colleague Kangler. It was a referendum area that was not at the will of the people. Health care, as has been said several times already today, has proved to be justified by those Members who justified the right to call referendums in areas where they do not have a healthcare home. In my case, this was an initiative committee or initiative for Rakek, and I will not repeat the arguments that I have already given in the original procedure. However, I would like to stress and reject those indications when some wonder that this decree and those areas will now only be adopted. I would like to point out that there are too many concerns that the health care of these people would be reduced there. In addition to the need to take into account the rules governing the conditions and manner in which health care is provided, it is particularly necessary to take into account the fact that each choice of a personal physician is no longer linked to a permanent residence or to the place of his or her residence. In addition, the initiators themselves responded immediately following the decision of the Constitutional Court and further complemented their role and, in their supplementary letter, stress with all seriousness that the proposed Rakek municipality, in cooperation with others, especially Cerknica, Loško Dolina, Blocke, will be able to ensure that the common needs of primary health care are met and that this is not possible, completely exceeded. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! I must convey the satisfaction of the initiative committee for the establishment of the new Rakek Congregation, because today they have been given a renewed opportunity. Just as it has been given to you who voted against this initiative in the first place. If the outcome of the referendum is positive, they will be able to form a community that will, according to their will, be confident that they will better pursue their interests, and of course they are also aware of the responsibilities they will have to assume. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although we have heard most of this debate today, I have heard it once before, but I have also thought that there is actually nothing wrong with it, that we should take this matter up again, because it is an important topic. However, I am particularly pleased to see that today, with regard to this issue, especially with regard to the appointment of referendum areas for the 8 municipalities that have actually fallen out of existence because there are no health homes in this location, that there is today, I will say, much political will that, finally, we will give these proposals a green light to decide whether they want to set up their congregations or not at the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, for the first time, we have voted on these congregations, as we will, of course, today, but we have seriously warned that these proposals, that these municipalities do not have health homes, that this cannot be and must not be a reason to lose the possibility of setting a referendum area for them. The opinions of the Constitutional Court, the decisions of the Constitutional Court I do not really understand as much as a slap in the face of this State Council or the Ministry, nor as much as some kind of correctional exam. I am sure that, according to our opinion today, we are confident, in the previous debate, that this correctional exam will also be a success. More importantly, it seems to me that this is actually a warning, a warning that something really needs to be done to change the law on local self-government in this area when it comes to the establishment of congregations. Above all, it is very important that the law with the conditions and criteria for the establishment of municipalities must achieve the essence of local self-government, namely to satisfy the common interests of people in a given logical local environment. Certainly it should not happen, and it should, of course, be prevented from stopping the congregations, you could say, in saying, 'forcefully' and it is also not good that local communities or settlements, in order to be somehow violently attached to certain congregations. This is probably not good for the welfare of those citizens, and not least for the development of that area. That is how I express my joy today. I am sure that the initiative committees and the candidates of these congregations, who will still receive the green light today, will also be able to decide their municipalities at the referendum, that is to say, together with them, I express my joy and hope that the green light will be given to these municipalities today with the greatest agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kontic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you very much. In fact, it was already said on behalf of the Group of Members when I explained why we would not oppose the call for referendums in this area. I actually understand the settlements that want to become congregations, and I understand that they want to become because they are not satisfied with the situation in their local community. This, of course, also means some kind of distrust of the present local community, from which they want to secede because they have actually estimated that when they leave, they will improve their living conditions in their new congregation. This is therefore a problem, but the law on the financing of municipalities, the law on local self-government, allows them to do so. And when people calculate how much they now receive from the congregation budget and how much they will receive in the future, of course, they make a very rational decision for the new congregations. The decree, which today contains 8 referenda and 8 future new local communities, named municipalities, is, of course, the right decision, following a partial decision of the Constitutional Court, and in part the fact that, in addition to these five future municipalities, which the Constitutional Court has defined as those to be re-judged by the National Assembly or to decide that the Committee has added those three who, in addition to the health care home or health station, have fulfilled all the conditions laid down by the Law on Local Self-Government and, above all, have counted more than 2,000 inhabitants. The only difference was that these three future new local communities did not complain to the Constitutional Court. And precisely because of this, the pride of arbitration that the National Assembly would actually do, if the Fifths, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, were to allow a referendum, and those three who did not complain were in the same situation, no, the matter would be disputed again. As I said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, of course I do not see the decentralisation of the state in this process of crushing the existing municipalities into new municipalities. I see the decentralisation of the country at a time when tasks will be delegated from the management power centre to the provinces, and perhaps to the existing local communities, the municipalities that will be able to carry out these tasks. This legislation is partly enabling today, but as I have said, this has not been done in the past, and I fear that this will not be done very quickly, unless we succeed - and shows that the possibility is that we will be successful in the introduction of the provinces, so regionalisation, then we will be able to talk about decentralisation, of course, depending on what these regions will do, what resources they will have, and what will be transferred to these provinces, not from local communities, which, of course, will also carry certain tasks beyond their capabilities, but, above all, what will be transferred from country to country level. In this process, I do not see any further fragmentation of municipalities into small municipalities. Important are the provinces, but the provinces where the content will be important. And when I think about what is said in Article 13 and where the conditions for the establishment of municipalities are written, and given that the Constitutional Court has not intervened for the first time in this area of local self-government, something may happen that will happen in the next round, and in the next round, when we discuss the establishment of new municipalities - this now allows us to do this at any time through the mandate and the municipalities to establish a reserve - they will live with the next local elections. And when I look at this article, I might finally find that, in fact, the conditions here are written, the conditions that can somehow be realized by local communities within a number of local communities; it is said, neighbouring congregations. We've got eight-year education, so perfect elementary school, now it's out of date, it's nine-year education, we have a nine-year-old. If they do not have it in the congregation that is being established, they will do so in the neighboring congregation. Primary health care, we have already said that it is not an institution, but it is important that people have the possibility of health care only in the neighboring congregation. Providing life’s necessities - well, trade is almost everywhere and there will be no major problems. Communication equipment, drinking water supply, wastewater treatment and waste water treatment, since not even all existing municipalities have it properly regulated. Even some present - day congregations do not yet have a water supply to each house and also to clean up wastewater. Electricity supply, well, that's what I hope everyone has, and this condition all the settlements meet. Postal services - if they don't have mail, they have a postman who goes to these future municipalities; banks - also, the library - also, if they don't have one, they will have a neighbouring congregation to deal with it together. The only condition that is likely to be met is the place for the administrative activities of local communities, which is unlikely to be of benefit in another local community. Finally, we will reduce the requirements for establishing a congregation to have spaces for local self-government. So, the law actually needs to be considered. And it will be necessary to write down in the law the criteria that will stand firm on the basis of which new congregations will be established and no judgment will be possible for anyone, just as he thinks it is right. The only criterion currently applicable to all of these exceptions, which are below 5,000 inhabitants, is that 2,000 inhabitants are registered. And when the minister points out that this is actually a harsh criterion compared to the previous law, I am even partial to him. Because if we did not already have this in our marriage, we would have more discussions today about how many congregations we establish. But with this debate I did not want to oppose these new eight congregations if that is the way people decide. It is therefore necessary to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, we have the law as we have it, so I will not object to the referendum being signed, so I will not object to this decision. However, I am not, unlike some, very happy today when we consider this and accept it. However, I still hope that this procedure is followed by the following steps and that local self-government is more than just the establishment of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I have already discussed it, but I will try to explain it once again for a short time, because my fellow Member, Juban, used the word arrogant, and he related this word to the happening of the Apache congregation. Once again, colleagues, if those who proposed not to support the Apaca municipality in Lutverc proposed that a special referendum should be proposed for them and that the outcome of the referendum should be determined, I would also do so as a candidate for this municipality. For this is in no way a danger to the formation of the congregation of Apache, but they have not done so. Now that the referendum is behind them, the results of the fact that they are against the municipality cannot be changed to the result that they are to be chosen from the local community of Apache. Such a question must only be voted on by the people in the referendum. And if that's what they want, I'll also commit to it in the new congregation of the Apache, and that if they're so nice at Gornja Radgona, they'll stay at Gornja Radgona. I would also like to say that Mrs Orzmova has shown here a letter which came to Parliament on 25.10. and she did not know about it, I am very surprised. She knew, for example, about everything that was going on in the Apaches, even the fact that they were cooking wine in the parish yard, and that the priest cheered up the new congregations, not even talking about it, even contradicted it as if the priest were a second-rate citizen and should not welcome the decision on the independent congregation, even it was against him, and it was also in the media and at her press conference and so on. It is strange that she did not know about this letter written by Mr Kampuš, who is not a member of a non-knowing party from which he was a proposer, and I am surprised that she did not then take the initiative and propose it. So many more times to answer that, and please don't talk about some arrogant thing about it because it wasn't actually there. As for today’s procedure, of course, I will once again say that the cost of the new congregations is not unnecessary and it is true that, as many have found, in small congregations, much more is made of one tolar than in large congregations. However, I would not like to repeat what kind of affairs we can read about, which are occurring in Ljubljana and in Maribor and in some large municipalities. In small congregations, you cannot manipulate millions of people down, for the cashier’s office is quickly empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Only that there would be no misunderstanding, Mr Sok did not discuss for the second time, but spoke for the first time, at least so it is evident from the list, when President Tsukjat chaired the meeting, he spoke as a replica of the implementation of Dr. Slavinc, now he was on the list. Mr. Juban has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Very simple, we are making an exception today and the Constitutional Court said 5, we are dealing with 8 proposals. And in the same way, on the local self-government committee, you had a colleague Slavinac's amendment with some additional signatures where you could - because you voted on the amendment and didn't vote on it and you could easily confirm it and solve the issue and you could solve the problems, and we, the Lutvercans, the Radgon congregation, the Apache congregation and everyone would solve the problems. And you didn't want to do that, which is why I used the term I used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Good. If I understand correctly, we can give the floor to Master Štebet, and then the Minister will have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The democracy of the National Assembly will increase with these additional eight referendums on the new municipalities. Thank God. With the help of the Constitutional Court, democracy, because we are constantly laying down rules, but we are not allowing some medium to decide at the referendum to test its initiative to establish a new congregation to do so. This limitation of human rights, I think, is a fundamental human right, is limited by various limitations. Of course, some restrictions are logical, but most are the source of fear against, as you say, division, decay and I don't know what. But we are talking about establishing new communities, about decentralisation. Mr Kangler has been talking about decentralisation all the time, and in fact this is what this is all about, and this is also one of the democracies that is supposed to be introduced in a country. I regret that at a time when municipal municipalities have become a self-governing local community, a very nice expression where local self-government is supposed to apply should be the local authorities that regulate matters in a community that has some attributes as a community, which we can say we can call it that. These are not just geographical and spatial criteria, when Mr Member points out inequity to constitutional judges, but lawyers have now made another trip. They did not take this essential aspect into account at all. But they must have, well, taken into account legal, formal aspects, looked at the law. And in the law, in fact, what it holds is artificially set up by some logic or reason, the logic behind it is not, 2,000 inhabitants. And here's the one where we can't really give up until this marriage changes. So that the various centralities and the reasons why the congregations should not be established are said to be of no use, the smaller congregation is not a meaningful matter, it is not. I think that the community can be a good community with 200 people, but it can be a bad community with 10,000 people or even 200,000 people. Therefore, these criteria cannot be set in this way. And in fact, it is not a problem in smallness - again a bad term, which is inadequate - in new congregations, it is not a major problem in new congregations in their numbers, size or smallness, but it is a problem of how these congregations work together, as has been said today. And how the state of this congregation in some way with the root and wand system motivates cooperation. I think that now the European Union and its rules requiring cooperation requiring a comprehensive resolution of some problems will, in fact, force them into that substantive right cooperation, by means of these rules, which are consistent and must be respected by us as a member of the European Union. I was very sorry when it failed in 1994, when it failed to establish real - life thefts or, if you want to do so today, landscapes, and there are some administrative units and some old congregations, but additional congregations have been established. And this also gives rise to the majority, probably, of the problems we face today. However, it is certainly not appropriate and in my view it is not democratic to speak in the way that some speak. I understand that they have interests, that they also have fears of creating in their midst a community that is successful as a community. Of course, the Community has cultural, historical, social and other interlinking strands when it can be declared as such and can be successful as such. We had many congregations before the war, and we had many more after the war, and we also had some parishioners, etc. In Slovenia there are many communities that could be declared as communities. However, it is undemocratic and contrary to fundamental human rights not to allow a community that decides to test the opinion of its inhabitants in the area. And in this direction it will also have to work in the future and improve the situation at this level. I will support the establishment of these five or eight congregations that meet these criteria, which are clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you very much. We conclude the general debate with the word of Minister Dr. Žagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will probably repeat what I have done several times and even in this National Assembly, because I feel that this debate is repeated every time we discuss the municipalities here in the National Assembly, including when we adopt legislation in this area. With regard to the establishment of new municipalities, it is likely to be possible to look for reasons in a large number or parameter. Nothing happens overnight and we cannot ignore and forget the things that have happened in the past period, when the congregations were being established and when they were actually being fully established or to a large extent, I will not say completely, unconstantly. Some communities have received municipalities, others comparable or possibly on better terms, then they have not received them, and I believe that this is also one of the reasons why there are still certain new initiatives, although it is also necessary to realistically assess that these initiatives are less than they have been in the past period. Another thing that occurs here is the financing of municipalities and that these things are dictated and such legislation dictates the establishment of new municipalities. It must be made very clear that this package, which is now proposed, does not burden the global additional state budget because there is practically a reallocation of funds. However, it is also likely that the assessment of the proposers that in some local environment these funds will be used and used substantially more rationally, and also the fact is, as regards the assessment of the performance of the municipalities, that this is often not dependent on size. We have very large municipalities that do not work effectively, and we have very small municipalities, where they work very effectively and have contributed significantly in some environments, especially in the municipal field, as regards development. As far as funding is concerned, of course we were able to correct funding within the given possibilities and frameworks. At the moment, however, it is in preparation a new law for the systematic financing of municipalities, and I hope that it will also bring these solutions to this end, so that the municipalities will be significantly more independent and be able to lead their own policies to a greater extent. As regards the amendment of legislation concerning today's subject matter. We have proposed those changes to the National Assembly, which at that time seemed most urgent and were not the last to be dealt with here and also adopted here. Once again, however, with these amendments - and this also follows practically from all the decisions of the Constitutional Court - the conditions for the establishment of the municipalities have been sharpened, since otherwise the debate could probably be completely different today. The only condition left is this condition - I am talking about what follows completely from all the decisions, not just from this last one - has remained this condition of 2,000 inhabitants. And within this, it will also be necessary to seek an appropriate criterion for further legislative changes and to reach some agreement and adoption in this National Assembly, as this National Assembly decides on this. Of course, in this case, the government has not put itself in the role of proposing the new municipalities. As for decentralisation, I have said many times before, I do not see real decentralisation without establishing landscapes in the right sense, of course by transferring powers, along with tasks, along with financial resources from the state level down. At the moment, there is also an open debate on the Constitutional Commission, which can significantly accelerate this process. And I also expect and appeal in this case to this positive attitude of all of you, Members and Members, of all parliamentary groups, because this is also related to this topic, at least in part, which we have discussed today. And I believe that this process will be easier to complete and that this next step in decentralisation will also be taken to establish the landscapes. Of course, it is also necessary to keep in mind once again on the other side of the congregation. The municipalities must also have this position in order to avoid this change, for example, further stimulate the establishment of new and new municipalities, whatever, because local centralisms can also pose an extremely high risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Procedural? [[No, no, ……]] Then I'd like to ask for some patience to tell you what we're going to discuss. So we have the LDS, SLS and SDS amendments to the first section of section 1 of the decree. To discuss this, I invite Dr. Gantar, and then Mr. Kokal. Dr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I have a little more time. I'll be quick. The LDS Club has tabled an amendment proposing that in the referendum area for the establishment of the new municipality of Poljana in the area of the local community of Maporje the referendum outcome be determined separately. This is due primarily to the fact that, in fact, in the local community of Yavorje, they have a negative attitude towards the establishment of a new congregation. The type of reason is that there is a rivalry between the two places, and if we do not want the new Trebelno to happen to us, then it makes sense to determine the referendum outcome both separately in the local community of Maporje and in the local community of Poljana. I certainly propose that this amendment, which was also tabled later by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, is summarised in a joint letter to support it, because I think that we can actually enable the people to really decide whether they want to have a new municipality of Poland in the proposed referendum area, as it has been presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u288	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you very much. To me, the question arises as to the practice established by the separate determination of the referendum results. Indeed, on what basis is the local community, an area on which a separate referendum outcome is identified - what would happen in municipalities where these local communities are not present? I would like to know if the LDS and SDS and the SLS would table an amendment for one settlement, for one street, for one household, for one citizen, in the final stage of the criteria. That is why I am interested in the answer to this question, where is the border and what are the grounds for a separate outcome. Of course, if we read the exact constitution, it speaks of one area in which the congregation is established and the referendum is signed, so is the law. Otherwise, one confusion follows from the proponents' explanation to propose two referenda. This is stated in the explanation prescribed, under the SDS and SLS amendment, exactly the same explanation as proposed by the parliamentary club. Here, too, it can be seen that there are different coalitions on the ground than there are in Parliament. In fact, it is very unusual for the LDS to write the SDS and SLS amendments. In fact, the separate finding of the outcome of the referendum is the reason why the inhabitants of the Roman Toplice were transferred around for their municipality. In fact, they probably understood that a separate determination of the referendum outcome in two different areas for one area means that if the result is positive in their area, they have a legal basis for setting up a municipality. I would also understand that this is a logical consequence of the separate determination of the referendum outcome. However, we have heard on the basis of the explanation of the legislative and legal service that this is not possible because the procedure was not right. However, the procedure was probably wrong because the referendum area was one. So, of course, this proposal means that the establishment of the municipality of Poljana is already being mined in advance, as it is likely that if I understand the Government's explanation, why it did not propose the establishment of the municipality of Rome Toplice, because the entire area for which the referendum was opened was a positive referendum. Then, it will also happen in this case that if a negative referendum were to take place in the area of the local community of Yavorje, I will say, a negative result, which means approximately a quarter of the entire area, this would be an argument that it is not proposed to set up a municipality. I ask: What is the political and legal basis? In this case, I do not think that citizens or citizens are the same before the law. Otherwise, the reference to the will of this particular local community seems very strange to me, given that I was myself present at the assembly of the countrymen called on in connection with this point. None of those who signed the amendment were there. Approximately 20 people out of 400 voters in this local community are, after a long and painful and very gallant discussion, especially the mayor and one who was formerly president of the local community and, of course, now has a significant share in one of the investments listed here, this is the ski resort of the Old Summit, and the president of the local community after this painful debate and the intimidation of people, what will be put to the vote if a new congregation is established. I would not like to be in the skin of these people at that time, because if this mayor comes and the president of the local community, who, of course, decides how he will be with municipal infrastructure, etc., it is difficult to objectively conclude here about the result. However, I must say that of the 30 people, 20 have actually been identified as opposed to establishing a municipality and 12 have abstained from voting. However, the leadership was unable to carry out secret ballots. So much for an explanation. On the argument of what would happen to investments if there was a new municipality in this area. As I have already mentioned, this is actually about investing in the ski resort Old Summit, where obviously it is about, I will say, the interests of some individuals who now run the congregation, the local community and, of course, the private part. It is very unusual for the municipality to be extremely invested here, while it is stated that it is now intended to re-establish a branch school in this local community, to start after 12 years of the mayor's county building a waterworks that could have been built a long time ago, etc. I believe that such pressure is incorrect and that it is actually now the pressure of political parties on the ground. I have not been called by any of the inhabitants of this area to oppose the establishment of the municipality, even the opposite, in the office of the Member, by people who have made a great deal of fuss over the work of the municipality and also over this project, which is listed here, the ski centre of the Old Top, that citizens themselves, the inhabitants themselves have nothing of it, but only some individuals. Here I would call on all the political parties who obviously encourage people on the ground and encourage negative feelings that you are careful because, as I mentioned earlier, the people themselves did not express doubts in the assembly of the countries, but the vote was, as I said, carried out under pressure. People talked mainly about the problems they have with the congregation, the functioning of the congregation, and the functioning of the local community. I would therefore like to point out that it seems very unfair for some political parties to engage in piling people up and scaring people on the subject. I don't think this is going to have a good outcome for people in particular, so I'm against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Prevc came forward first, and I remind you of the limited time you have, a few more seconds, and then Dr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u291	It is true, unfortunately I don't have much time, maybe we'll share the rest of the time, and then I'll explain, given that I'm, after all, a proponent, that is, on behalf of the party, along with the SDS, this amendment. I would just say that actually the proposaler should be happy and with all four of these amendments accepted, because it's about not repeating Trebel, what we've already mentioned today. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Let me just make it clear that the time in the debate of the amendment does not divide what remains of it. Dr. Gantar. But, please, you just don't have time anymore, the replica counts in time, so I'm sorry, I can't give you a replica. And Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u293	Very short. I still have a minute. Look simply, I say, otherwise I am not elected in these places, but I come from these parts and know the places, villages and people quite well under the Old Top and Blagos. All I am saying is what many have told me is that it is enough for emissaries to come from elsewhere and encourage and encourage people to establish new small congregations under Blagos, that they are slow to do so, and that they actually want their will to be expressed directly. A colleague says that what is the will, where is the reason for the separate clarification of the inhabitants of the local communities of Maporje. Where is the reason that there would not be, where is the will, where is the reason for the will to hide the will of the inhabitants of the local community of Yavorje, for example, the inhabitants of Poljan, if they will even choose the congregation, which is not clear, as it is not clear for Javorje. This is the result when said Comrade Prevc, and this allows if the new congregation is to be a new congregation, without bad conscience and without too much controversy. And that is why, of course, we are voting for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u294	And Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to add one thing to it, which is we've been listening around the old top cableway. Let me just explain that ownership of cable systems The Old Vrh is common property of the Municipality of Škofja Loka, the Municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane, then the ski company in Škofja Loka and also 10% of the various interested public, including locals. Thus, the new congregation would not have a significant influence or contribution to solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no more applicants. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, we will round up to 10 minutes in six hours. So at 6:10 p.m., there's a vote. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6:10 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u297	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue the adjourned session and start the voting. As a normal guide, please check to see if the voting devices are working, which means the orange light must burn on the right side of the card. And Mr. Jelinčič the Noble has procedural procedures. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would suggest that we vote today on the purified texts of laws and on the mandate-holder matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr Jelinčič, for your proposal, but I am afraid that I have my hands tied, because the decision on the agenda and the points is a matter of a college of the President of the National Assembly. It was a decision and we must respect it. We continue with the end of the 9th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a company law. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Article 253 first, to decide on the amendments of the parliamentary groups - I will just read the abbreviations SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Would anyone like to explain the voice, first on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? No, no, no. We're voting. What the hell is this? Mr. Puksich, technical problems. The presence of 69 Members and Members is 41 to 24. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment was adopted. We continue with the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 273. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Lakhovnik, your word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Presidents, representatives of the government! With our amendment, which we have tabled under Article 273 of the Company Act, we want to ensure that the restrictions provided for in the Company Act concerning membership in the Supervisory Councils are reduced. As the article now stands, this membership is limited to a maximum of three membership permits on the supervisory boards, which, of course, causes completely practical problems when it comes to companies such as Gorenje, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Petrol and Mercator. In particular, some well-diversified corporations, which have a large number of such subsidiaries, may face unnecessary bureaucratic restrictions. Therefore, the spirit of our amendment is that we stipulate that the quota of three permitted memberships does not include up to five memberships in subsidiaries. Indeed, the task of group managers is also to manage, of course, those companies that depend on or are owned by these companies. Finally, we also draw up consolidated balance sheets and it is logical, of course, that these managers also sit in the supervisory boards of subsidiaries. They are also the easiest to control, the easiest to control, and the owners are also responsible for their actions. I would like to point out that our amendment relates mainly or exclusively to these memberships in the subsidiaries of the companies. What is crucial from an international comparative point of view is that if we look at the situation in other countries, we see that in the case of Austria, Germany, Croatia is limited to 10 memberships in the supervisory councils. If we take France, this limit is up to 8 memberships, if you take Italy or Switzerland, you see that there are no such restrictions. However, if you take the case of the Netherlands, you see that membership is limited only in public companies. In short, in Slovenia, this proposal, which is currently proposed by the government, places this limit very restrictively, most in the European Union, for which there are no real substantive reasons. We believe that certain administrative restrictions are unnecessary, but I would like to point out, of course, that such owners have the opportunity to restrict managers' membership in supervisory councils either through individual contracts or through company statutes. Thus, with our amendment, we are merely trying to enforce the spirit of the law, which is to reduce deregulation and remove administrative obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, did you want to discuss or explain your voice? Did you raise your hand, too? No, no, no. I guess not. Anyone else? We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] Which means the amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 474. Would anyone like to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, first? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 699 of the Social Democrats' Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of Article 702a of the proposed Social Democrats Group. Mr. Kumer, perhaps on behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. I'll take this opportunity on behalf of the Member of Parliament, I'll take all three amendments, and I'll call back later. Since there has been a lot of discussion on European comparisons, I will point out the main conclusion of Sigurt Vitos' latest study from the Berlin Centre for Social Studies commissioned by the European Union Institute. The main conclusion is: 'The strongest economy can be found where employees enjoy extensive rights regarding the participation of their representations in the bodies of companies', which strongly contradicts the large part of today's debate, which was held this morning. That I won't, and we can give this study away. The results are very clear and perhaps surprising for many, including government representatives. With the exception of economic growth, countries with large rights of employee participation have shown themselves better than countries without these rights. Such results are based not only on objective economic indicators, empirical data, but also on subjective opinions of directors. Directors shall fully assess the economic conditions in countries with great rights of participation as better than those in countries with weak or no rights of participation. And to the end. Employees in these companies shall participate in strategic decision-making through representative offices at company level. This participation helps to clear the extreme demands of investors after increasing the short-term repayments for their stakes and serves medium- and long-term interests - the sustainability of the company. In short, once again, co-decision is a positive institution for Europe that does not negatively affect the performance of businesses, as it increases the benefits of workers. To the extent that codecision has proved successful in many different national contexts, it should spread across Europe. We, in Slovenia, have this basis from now on, and we do not see the reasons in our parliamentary group, why we so scrupulously adhere to the rules or the coalition rules, to say, diseases after the printing of workers or employees in co-management and co-decision, which, with these changes and additions, have been brought to a smaller part of the rights that they now have in the two-thirds system, are said only to have a unitary participation. In short, once again, I would like to suggest that the ruling coalition look through the fingers and try to support these three amendments to Article 702.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u303	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, this time proposing SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the same Article, i.e. 702.a. Would anyone like to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to the same article; this time, we are proposing a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Mr. Kumer, do you want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. I will now, in essence, continue with the document, which is a Slovenian document from the last 14 days, namely the Partnership for Development. And I'm going to quote two paragraphs that are linked to these three proposed amendments. Under the title Objectives, it reads: "The main objective of development is to increase human well-being and quality of life. The development of society must improve the prospects of every human being for a long, healthy and active life. People must be given access to knowledge and health as basic sources that enable them to realize their personal potential, to actively engage in social, political and economic life and to assume responsibility for their own destiny." This is in particular the latter end, which is likely also linked to co-decision, co-management of employees or workers in companies. And when this document speaks of values, it is written: "Societal changes must be designed and implemented in a democratic way. Democracy does not just mean elections and democratic arrangements of formal institutions, it also means open public dialogue on important issues, consultation of civil society stakeholders, dialogue between social partners, local self-government and regional partnership, and, "I stress this in particular, "direct decision-making of citizens." And we're at the same point again, but it's related to that study that I quoted earlier. It is also true that you are not implementing your own document, which is written here and from which I have quoted two paragraphs today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the fourth amendment of the drafter of the Social Democrats' Group, once again to the same article. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] On behalf of the delegation? Please, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u306	Or can it, because most of you are not today I thought at the beginning of this morning to raise the question whether the debate was even legitimate, because there was no colleague of Grims in the hall all day, and not yesterday because he demanded it the previous day when there was no LDS. [[...]] In this amendment, however, I would warn you because no one in this National Assembly can tell you how many companies there are in Slovenia, how big there are, how small there are, how small there are micro-stock companies and how they manage these companies. And so now I'm going to give you this data to see what you decide to see the proportions. At the end of December 2005, there were 1135 shareholders, of which 183 are small, ranging from 11 to 50 employees, and 144 micro, up to ten employees. And about 10 to 45 share companies have more than 500 employees, which are considered double, by law, management. So our proposal in this amendment is that we don't let these 183 small organisations that have up to 50 can have 49 of them, because they don't have 51. We suggest that only 144 micros fall out, with up to ten employees, to anchor the lower anchor at micros rather than small businesses. Because in these 183 small companies, according to our data, 42 had supervisory councils and administrations. So they've had a two-tier management system so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you very much. At the same time, I ask, because of all of us, as well as the audience on the Tribunals, which I welcome, that you calm down a little public debate and allow the one who is on the turn to give his opinion. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I give the text to the representative of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We propose that the third reading of the law take place at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes, as we have heard, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Anybody? An explanation? We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 79 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] It means that the proposal has been adopted. Excuse me. I apologize, the proposal has not been adopted. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. Of course, it was not accepted because of a qualified majority. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 72 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] It means that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to point 12. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the law on amendments and additions to the law on classified information will take place on Friday 3 March 206 in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas, following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment cannot be tabled in the third reading of the amendment, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I'm asking if anyone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In your own name? No, no, no. Excuse me, Master Saiovic, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u310	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will abstain from this marriage because today is an ashtray Wednesday. The blame for this confusion for local self-government and the referendum, especially with the Municipality of Mokronog - Trebelno, has been much heard today, and some have also poured their ashes, which, of course, is still affecting the day, and I was encouraged to discuss and explain my voice by an article in today's Work where the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government told Trebelna that they had missed the train. It is possible, but when they have asked for a ticket and have also requested and informed the committee and the President on 14 December, there is evidence and a copy where they ask for this referendum opinion to be determined separately for both Mokronog and Trebelna. When there was a time, unfortunately there was no response. It is written here, informed and also in the knowledge of the Member of the Parliament. I think we need to act soberly and responsibly on these matters and on the will of the local population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u312	So that was an abuse of voice. I will support this matter in any way, of course I must now serve and demarcate in this abuse. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Yeah, sorry, God, sorry about the LDS dirty games you're playing, but the wedge's coming together. [[...]] I have to say, my colleague was not rude, but he was a disgraceful liar. A letter sent to the President of any committee shall not, under any circumstances, reproduce, present or otherwise take over. It would be a simple letter from the President, I don't know if one citizen, but you've probably gotten the matter in other parties, probably a colleague too. And then I could have made an amendment myself, if I had been fair to these people, of course, and not poured my ashes. But I advise him to shake this ashes honestly right now because he's more than brainwashed and in this stain, that I won't say he's in any other mud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. But I would still ask that in this House, in this solemn space, we avoid words like that and beyond so that I do not repeat them. Please. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will be in line with my views, which I have consistently advocated, otherwise I respect the will expressed in the referendum. I have no objection to and congratulations to all these countries and country women who will receive new congregations, and I wish them much success. However, for the reasons that I have already mentioned many times today, I will not vote for this decree on the establishment of municipalities, I will not abstain and I will oppose because I think we are doing bad because we think that this is a bad step towards the development of local self-government in Slovenia, although I think those who have received it have the right to do so. But not only will I be unconstructive, because you also like to have constructive comments and constructive opposition, I would suggest that in the future, when we establish municipalities, we should make the presidency of the Local Self-Government Committee a secret function. So that no one will know who is between us, who is the Chairman of the Local Self-Government Committee, only in this way will he be able to avoid all the letters, the initiatives he receives, and he will be able to carry out his duties without delay. I therefore suggest that this function is classified and that the name is also protected in accordance with the rules of the Owl and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u315	Anyone else? Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u316	Thank you, Vice President. In my personal name, I would like to say that after I have avoided the debate on this subject, because it is clear to me what time it is in this Chamber when we talk about this, I would like to say how I am going to vote. And there won't be any surprises. I remain faithful to my belief that the fragmentation of municipalities also means the fragmentation of their development potentials, which are not measured only by the ability to get asphalt on the central village road. It is an increase in public administration, it is an increase in public spending, so it is an investment in non-productiveness, it is a symptom, not just a symptom, but also a proof of the collapse of social cohesion and solidarity, which we must all be concerned about and which is the responsibility of the mayors, the mayors, the municipal councils of those municipalities whose fragmentations are taking place. It is an opportunity for some chosen ones and is a great illusion about a better future for all others in the affected area. Therefore, this time, as has been the case so far, when it comes to either the procedures for the establishment of the congregations or the establishment of those congregations, I will also vote against it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Yelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and on the establishment of their areas, and that is because I agree with the majority will of the people who, at the referendum, have expressed their desire for their local self-government, the desire of the community in the belief that it will be easier for the newly formed municipalities to provide citizens with needs, better infrastructure, health care, a solution to the problem in the short term, including education, employment and so on. In all these local communities, the majority will of the electorate has shown that they have an interest in this, and we must not hinder them, but I want to support them with the desire of a prospective and effective local community and rapid and successful development. It is true that most of the proposed municipalities meet the minimum conditions, which is sufficient for the conditions required for the establishment of new municipalities. If I want to respect the will of the electorate, I can't deny them the right to stand alone. I also took into account the positive opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the opinion of the electoral commission, individuals and groups, as well as the Government's support for the creation of the new 12 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. I think the proposal is positive, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I will gladly vote for the law or for the establishment of 12 congregations, especially for this reason, because today we will make amends to many. Many of these future congregations fought for this in the past and for certain political reasons, and not all of them were voted on at the time. I am very pleased that today, at least for some in this national assembly, we will correct this injustice. That is why I will also vote for the formation of these new congregations or for the congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Mag. Genius, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I have said before that I will abstain in this case because there has been this unloving complication about the establishment of the Mokronog Congregation. I firmly believe that things will be resolved differently in the future. At the same time, I would like to see that, despite the fact that this moment of separation between the two local communities is quite severe, things are going to be resolved and that they will find a more patient and more creative way of cooperating in the future, especially in order not to have long-term conflicts and contradictions. I think this is possible and it will be done with good pleasure. However, I cannot support this moment, because the last attempt to have Trebelna have the same number of saints in the new congregation as the local community of Mokronog has failed, even though such an agreement has been and thus has not been achieved. That is why I intend to abstain; since I have, as a rule, always put myself on the side of the weak, I will also do so this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u323	Thank you. I find that there are no more applicants, so we are voting. Thank you. There were 76 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I do not know how such a round of applause is being commented on, so I will proceed with the 20th item of the agenda - with the consideration of the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and the setting up of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. I would ask that, despite the celebrations that govern the tribunal, visitors take their seats and follow the meetings. We are moving on to a decision on an amendment tabled, to the first chapter, to point 1. It was tabled by three parliamentary groups, LDS, SLS and SDS. I ask the representatives of the applicants if they would like to explain their vote. Mr. Prevc, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. See, we have invested, together with the SDS, the amendment, in this direction, in order to determine the referendum outcome specifically for the settlement in the area of the local community of Javorje. We didn't actually invent this amendment. We have written this amendment at the request and at the initiative of representatives of the local community of Yavorje, who have, in fact, been opposed from the outset to joining the newly formed municipality of Poljana. We in the Slovenian People's Party will certainly support this decree, which allows, among other things, the municipality of Poljane to decide at the referendum on a separate congregation. However, I think it is right that, in fact, the proposer who proposes this congregation should support this amendment somewhere. As I have already said before in the debate, where exactly the proposaler has somehow made it clear that he will not support this amendment. Look, I'm sure if it's a desire to pour some pure wine here, why don't we give the Maple people a chance to make a decision, that's to say that their will at the referendum has not finally been specifically identified. It's nothing wrong, it's actually just a way to avoid actually similar stories that we've already talked about today. One such story is Trebelno. If what the proposer said is true to the fact that the people of this settlement agree with the newly formed congregation, but that someone promotes intolerance and opposition to this new congregation, then I do not think he will object to the adoption of this amendment at this time. I think that would actually be weird. This is said to be the case if the inhabitants of the local community of Javorje decide at the referendum not to go to the municipality with the Poles, then this municipality will not be there, as it is clear that the municipality of Poljane will no longer meet the basic condition, that is 2,000 inhabitants. And maybe that's what the proposalr's afraid of. Let us pour pure wine, let us make it possible for the inhabitants of this village, that of course they may be separated from one another. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u325	Mr. Prevc, the technique has won as usual. Anybody else want some? Mr. Bones. No, there's no replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u326	I'd explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u327	Yeah. If there's a replica, I'm going to have to turn this replica into a voice explanation, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u328	Well, you can. Well, it could be an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u329	Please, that's nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u330	I'd like to repeat again very briefly what I already have. The initiative for this amendment, which you are referring to, has been copied by the tenderers who have previously tabled the amendment, you have written on the basis of what the local community has tabled, we have seen that it is the same contact, for the same text. I've already said that I was present at the assembly. When this was discussed, none of you who tabled this amendment were there. And the situation itself did not convince me that it was right to support such an amendment. Above all, it bothers me that I have not received an answer to the question of what are the criteria for determining the outcome of the referendum separately. I still find that where it is separately identified and where it is not separately identified for the entire referendum area, citizens or citizens are not equal before the law. I do not think that anyone has the right on the basis of a separate outcome, if they are different, to conclude that there is no need to establish a congregation, but that this has happened in the case of the Roman Toplice. That is why, of course, I will oppose this amendment, and I am also thinking about a constitutional complaint if such a decision is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The LDS Club also tabled the same amendment, identical to that of the SDS Group and the Slovenian People's Party. It is certainly a fact that this amendment stems from the fact that in this referendum area, which has been established, there are clearly different views in the two local communities of the future new municipality and that it is correct that in these two local communities the result is actually determined separately if we want to have a congregation that belongs to it with the heart, body and taxes of all the locals living in the area. Therefore, it is only logical and correct, and it is regrettable that we have not done this more than once, so that such will will be determined separately, because otherwise we will come up with the problems we have already encountered in this House today. It is only good that the various parliamentary groups have tabled a similar amendment and that this amendment is drawn from the initiative of the local community of Yavorje, because you yourself say that some locals in Javor tell you that they would like to have a congregation, so there is nothing wrong with us representing as amendments initiatives, in this case the local community. At the same time, it is also evident that this division for or against future congregations is not a political division to the right, to the left, and so forth, but is based on a different assessment of what the congregation should or should not bring. And this prevents this classical division, which is in this House, which is only to be welcomed, and I hope that this amendment, as it is accepted, will be respected by the will to be expressed and expressed as it will be expressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u333	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Savoice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment, which has been submitted both by the position and by the opposition, is not bad and I will gladly support it. When it comes to bringing together two local communities and deciding on a new congregation for some kind of wedding, then we say that such a successful amendment can be a good prenup. However, for a good law, cooperation and communication are more important than the exercise of the right of a stronger one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u335	Thank you very much. I don't see any more deadlines, which means we're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 8. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now deciding the whole decision. In accordance with the customs, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the decree would be systematically inconsistent. I ask, does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u336	Thank you very much. If I am an advocate of a larger than a small congregation before, because I say that for overall development the critical mass is rather positive than bad, this time I will be very happy to support the decree. When we rejected these 8 proposals in advance, I argued that on the issue of primary health care at the local level is the primary law, the Health Act, in particular Article 9, which previously cited municipalities as merging on the issue of a common healthcare home. Those who know the municipality of Cerknico will know that the internal health home is located in Cerknica, that in the vicinity of Rakeka, which will be the most remote municipality, the population is 7 minutes away from it by car and then the purpose of such a procedure is to make no sense. I also say we should be aware of something. It's a better reasonable judgment - weighing than limiting. Limitation to hard, 2,000 people without exception, is a shame. It would be better, I am sure that this national assembly as one supports the congregation of Shenthošt because they would have been liberated, just as we liberated Blocke seven years ago. And if we can do anything for them, we've done it well and developed. The same is true of this poor Shenthosht as a blind pocket, which does not go to the congregation, even less to Horullian because they are not married, and we have been torturing them for eight years. Therefore, I say that a reasonable assessment and weighting of initiatives must be allowed into this law, not a firm restriction that is not life-threatening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-01-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u337	Thank you very much. We're voting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I note that 74 Members and Members were present, 62 votes against 6. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] This means that the decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. At the same time, I wish you a pleasant evening and, of course, a great deal of happiness in having some great seed fall for your shoes on the ashtray Wednesday. Thank you.
