ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Battelli Roberto, Horvat Ferri, Possonec Maria, Preseknik Jakob and Ziherl Milenko from 16:00 on. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Judicial Council to the 36th item. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda, may I have your attention, please? On 21 November 2005, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on the Holocaust memory in which a third of the Jewish population and a number of other minorities were killed. Therefore, the Holocaust will always be considered a warning of the dangers of hatred, fascism, Nazism and prejudice. On 27 January, the General Assembly declared the International Holocaust Memorial Day. I ask Members and Members to remember the victims of this tragedy for a minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you. [[...]] We are moving on to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 20.1.2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did not accept the motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. With regard to the enlargements of the agenda, the LDS Group of Members tabled a proposal to extend the agenda of the meeting. In this regard, I note that the proposal for enlargement is contrary to Article 64, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal does not meet the conditions for enlargement laid down in the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. The proposal for an extension is also not accompanied by the relevant material and the National Assembly will therefore not decide on that proposal for an extension of the agenda. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Mr President, I ask you to withdraw what you just said. Firstly, this assessment that the proposal does not meet the conditions set out in Article 64, paragraphs 6 and 7, is not correct. The second paragraph of Article 58 states that the decision and extension of the agenda are necessary when the decision of the State Assembly is bound by the time limit laid down by the Constitution, the law and so on. Mr President, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided on 12 January to send four volunteers to Iraq. We're supposed to go to Iraq on March 12th. We're having our first regular session today, and we're having another regular session. What you are saying here does not hold true, and at least we require two: let it come, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, to present this to the legislature, so that the decision on whether Slovenia fundamentally changes its foreign policy does not belong to a meeting of the National Assembly. We believe that the arguments are sufficient and are set out in all the articles referred to in Article 67 and are in accordance with Article 58(3). If you really do not think that this is an important issue for Slovenia, then this should come in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Law. Everything else, Mr President, is, of course, a failure by the ruling coalition of the Slovenian public, which does not want to be decided in the National Assembly, in the only place where we can change the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether or not four volunteers should go to Iraq. Your hands are ticking. The third paragraph of Article 58 states so well. So please allow us to explain the reasons why it is important to make this decision today. You have received written material and we have the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to discuss this, to present this request and to decide on this in the following section. Anything else, Mr. President, is neither consistent with nor consistent with the problem posed by such a decision by the Government. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] However, I have already said a procedural proposal, Mr. Ambassador, that if you do have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	in this doubt, the fifth paragraph of Article 66 - the legal and legislative service should come to explain where our proposal is contrary to the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of preventing a very important act for which deadlines have been due since 12 January. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Mr. Squeakle, thank you so much for your explanation. That was also the debate, and I said at the outset that there was no debate. I would therefore ask you to understand that this proposal has in fact been dealt with in such a way that the conclusions I have read previously were based only on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and not on the interpretation of the content. There's no debate. [[Back-up advertising.]] I explained the Rules of Procedure to you. That's how we explained the Rules of Procedure. I said what the Rules of Procedure envisaged and once again said that there was no debate on that. Mr. Pavlich, do you have a procedural question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Not a question, but an initiative. The incentive to vote on our proposal, however. Why? Mr Vice-President, I find it difficult to believe that, as my colleague and as President, you are misinterpreting this rule of procedure, so I assume that this has grown on the grassroots of the President of the National Assembly. In one part, Cvikl already said why this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. In the second part, let me say that our proposal has been tabled in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 6. Why? Because the reasons for the extension of the agenda arose after the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. after 20 January. Why? Due to a meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission on 24 January, the government failed to provide a reasoned explanation of its reasons for deciding that our soldiers were involved in training security services in Iraq. Therefore, again, I think that our citizens and citizens and all together, for safety reasons, deserve the least that our proposal is voted on here today, but not that we should just put it under the threshold again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Mr. Pavlich, I will allow myself to ask you if you can explain to me if, in this case, the constitution, the law or the rules of procedure are binding on any time? To deal with this matter, I don't go into content.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I mean, Mr. Vice President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Please, if you can quote me on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Sure. I quote paragraph 58, second indent of the second paragraph: "...that the agenda may be extended when the decision of the National Assembly is bound by a deadline laid down by the Constitution, law or by this Rules of Procedure." and if we read the Defence Act, but the deadline is two months, and this period is also based on an international treaty, which is above our law under Article 8 of the Constitution, it is clear that it is a time limit. In two months, this decision will no longer be revoked. And let me just warn you, Mr Vice-President, that, after the last survey, 58.8% of all citizens and citizens, or respondents, believe that the debate should be before the national assembly, but it was not. 58.8% of respondents. Will we go beyond that decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlich. I would like to ask you to base this deadline, which you have just stated, in writing and to interrupt the 15-minute session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. In doing so, I inform you that it has been 16 minutes not 15 minutes and that I have not yet received or hope to receive a written proposal. Due to technical problems with the etiquette, I extend my vacation by 5 minutes. We continue at 2.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! I have received a letter from the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, which I will read to you. "The LDS Member Club submitted to the President of the National Assembly, on 27.1.2006, a proposal to extend the agenda, which is fully in line with the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 6, paragraph 6, in conjunction with the second indent of Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Justification. First time. The reasons for the extension of the agenda were given after the reference to the 13th ordinary meeting of the State Assembly of 20.1. 2006 since, as already mentioned, the Government, even after the consideration of the security situation in the Republic of Slovenia associated with this decision at the meeting, did not provide any relevant explanations for this area of the competent working body of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the intelligence and security services. Second. The material was accompanied by a proposal. [[There's a mistake in the dictatorship you've made.]] Third time. In the LDS, we are convinced that the condition set out in the second indent of paragraph 2 of Article 58 is also fulfilled, since the decision is based on the time-limit laid down by the law, in the same sense as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia based its decision. The Government's decision on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO mission, training of security forces in Iraq, is based on the Constitution. [[Article 3a]] The Republic of Slovenia, the North Atlantic Treaty and the Defence Act. Given that our Constitution lays down the primacy of international law in Article 8 and that the decision of the Government is linked to the decision of the North Atlantic Pact of 8 April 2005, we believe that the National Assembly must address this issue before the two-month deadline set by the Government's decision." [[End of quote of the document.]] Regrettably, this explanation by the LDS Group has not shown the time-limits laid down by the Constitution, law or rules of procedure, to which it would be bound by a decision on what the Liberal Democracy Club requires. That is why I have also read this to you in full, because I cannot find out from the Rules of Procedure and from this text where the deadline should be set for the national assembly to deal with this subject by extending the agenda. There is no debate on this, I am sorry, and there are no more procedural questions. I have made it possible for you to ask procedural questions, even though I was almost firmly convinced that there is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure and that we cannot conclude on this. That is why we will move to a vote on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card; in this case, the vote may take place. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed agenda has been adopted. We will continue the meeting at 3 p.m. when we move on to 1. agenda item on questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. Between us, I welcome the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Minister, the only one among them. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 29 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. The individual ministers will then answer the questions raised at the 12th meeting of the assembly, to which they have not responded due to their absence. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister will answer the question within five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, and Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Dragutin Mate. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question to which he has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr Saša Pece will ask the first question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Honorable present, Prime Minister! As you probably know, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, with some other signatories under Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has proposed to the constitutionalist, i.e. the National Assembly, to amend the Constitution in that part which would allow for a more efficient, quality and faster judiciary or the judiciary. As you probably know, a good part of the Members and Members of Parliament have committed themselves to the need for additional explanations mainly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr Janša: Have you changed your mind since 2001, when the National Assembly on a similar case under the Judicial Service Act on the case has already spoken and once decided - then, in 2001? During the previous term of office of the National Assembly, the National Assembly attached to the proposal of the Slovenian National Party on the limitation of a permanent judicial mandate, as was said to be the month of May. Among them, you and a good part of your Members have confirmed the ideas of the National Party. As you probably know, the previous government has never implemented a decision of the National Assembly, but has tried to bring the matter to a more effective court through the party's door, so in 2003, 2004 and 2005, we have changed several areas of legislation, allocated new financial resources to the judiciary and changed the conditions of the functioning of the judiciary, all on a proposal from the judiciary and all under the promise of the judiciary that, insofar as the national assembly as the legislature and the legislature adopts those measures, the judiciary will be more effective. Unfortunately, we see that the judiciary has not reached a more effective stage, so at least within the framework of the signatories of the initiative to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure, we assess that the dictatorship, as proposed, is the amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution: "The judges are first appointed for an eight-year term and after the eight-year term the judge may be appointed under a permanent judicial mandate." The law sets the age limit and other conditions for election and I am interested or would like to receive an answer, your reply or the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the said proposal of the Slovenian National Party. As you know, unfortunately in the current situation, there is a fact that some parliamentary groups have publicly stated that their position depends on the profession and the ministry, regrettably or not, but unfortunately there is another fact that a good part of the other Members is tied to your will and I would now like to know for this reason, as long as the said procedure continues and if the government intends to approach a better and more effective judiciary. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you so much for asking. We are meeting him for the second time, for the first time a similar initiative has been put forward in a more acute form, in terms of the permanent abolition of the permanent term of office. The government has taken a negative position on that first initiative. We do not consider the abolition of a permanent judicial mandate to be in question. This initiative was then slightly renewed, recast, reinstated in terms of the imposition of an eight-year probationary mandate. Now I would not go into whether this proposed trial period is appropriate or not. In previous references to the National Assembly - I think once - we have come up with a slightly different proposal with a five-year probationary mandate, but this could be a matter for further discussion. Before the government takes a position on this renewed initiative, we will examine all such and different consequences that could result from such an arrangement. I personally think it would be worth supporting. Perhaps not in this particular exercise with eight years of probationary mandate, perhaps a little shorter, but I think that this change would be welcome and have positive effects. The truth is that there are now two mechanisms in law that allow a permanent judicial mandate to be terminated. This is the case where the assessment of the judicial service indicates that a certain person performing a judicial function does not correspond to the judicial service or that he is subject to disciplinary sanctions for the termination of a judicial function. In a few cases, these measures have been expressed since this regulation was in force, it is said that, strictly in theory, in practice, a permanent mandate is not something that could be terminated in these two cases if the conditions of the law are met. It is true, however, that it is up to the internal body to decide that this is internal control, which normally has a limited scope of objectivity and also of efficiency, but to a certain extent exists. In view of the foregoing, the government will examine the possible consequences of such an arrangement and send an opinion to the National Assembly or Constitutional Commission. Then I would point out that this measure, which is often argued in public or justified by the greatest problem we currently have in the field of justice, is a large number of judicial backlogs, is intended to contribute to rapid solutions in this area. This measure, if there had been a change to the Constitution and, consequently, the introduction of an experimental judicial mandate, would not for the first time apply to those already appointed under a secret judicial mandate, this would have been a measure which would have been considered as new appointments and which is already very limited or retroactive. On the other hand, it would take longer, in the extreme context of this proposal, eight years before it would have had complete effects. The government will also be aware of this when it adopts and sends an appropriate opinion to the National Assembly. We have dealt with the problems of judicial backlogs with the programme prepared by the Ministry of Justice, and in a relatively short time we will see what statistics will show in the success of remedying judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Mr. Pece, you want to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, and thank you for your answer. Mr Janša, you probably know that the constitutional procedure is of a highly elastic nature and therefore it is possible to change its content from the content proposed in the Slovenian National Party, to the extent that it pursues about the same objective. The other thing I would like to point out is, your words, which say that this constitutional change would not help to regulate the situation in the judiciary. Let me once again point out that over the past three or four years, we have adopted no number of laws that have improved the functioning of the judiciary or which are supposed to, but no results. We have granted them new financial resources, but this measure has not helped either. In short, the legislative branch of authorities and the executive branch of authorities have in the past tried to follow instructions coming from the judicial branch of government, but there is no effect. And we are fighting against such ineffective measures within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. You further note that there are already two of the measures or instruments in existing legislation that allow for the termination of a permanent judicial mandate. However, I know that all 90 sitting here, and probably the entire previous structure, know that these two measures have not, once again, been applied, and therefore do not appear to me personally to be a political cultural one. And also when you see that the initiative of the Slovenian National Party is a second initiative. Exactly. For the first time, we have tried to reach a limited judicial mandate of eight years. Let me tell you that on the day of the vote, you, too, personally as a Member, voted or gave your vote, your position and your content to that decision. Later, when we saw that we did not obtain the necessary quorum signatures for the initiative, we were forced to ease the matter in the context of the National Party's Group of Members, but in any way, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I personally assess that it would make sense to attach matters and thus allow the Group of Members of the United Nations and the Liberal Democracy, which are no more than once [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Your time is running out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	you've reached your point of view that the process is about to begin. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thanks again for saying that. First, let me say that the government is not inclined to abolish a permanent judicial mandate and that it will not support such a proposal, even if it does happen again. This position is perfectly clear. With regard to the proposal to introduce an experimental judicial mandate, the government has not yet decided on this, but I think that my opinion, at least for the time being, will be favoured. It is not true that a negative assessment of the judicial service so far would have no concrete consequences. If I recall the data of the Supreme Court, five negative assessments of the judicial service have been issued so far, and the result of these negative assessments is the termination of the judicial mandate. I also did not say that this would be a measure if a trial mandate had been introduced, which would not have produced any results, I think it would have given them in order to have positive consequences, but would not have had any effect in the short term on the abolition of judicial backlogs, because we all know that this measure could have a gradual positive impact only over time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. He will ask the Prime Minister a question, Mr Aleš Gulič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Dear President, Mr President of the Prime Minister, the Ministerial Assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The last few days, especially last week, it seemed that the National Assembly was dealing only with the question of the Mutual. Of course, that was not the case, and the story did not end with the last extraordinary session, but it did. That is why I have allowed myself to ask a question concerning the Mutual and, above all, solidarity between the sick and the healthy. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have always pointed out the problems that have been promised in the area of supplementary insurance. Some of them have been detected in the previous mandate and the White Paper has given an answer, reforms should go in the direction by which the solidarity of supplementary insurance could be strengthened, by introducing premiums that would also depend on what they deserve; it is said, on the income of the insured. However, your government, as far as it has worked in this area, has acted contrary to this and has in some ways accelerated the introduction of the privatization of health care in the whole area, as well as in the area of insurance. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as well as mine, is that the current events are not only a result of greed but also of indifference of the administration. With this, the original mission, so to speak, solidarity, reciprocity, began to be lost and everything was actually becoming opaque, wetlands, as we said in one of the moments when we discussed the Mutual. The question is, of course, still in place - the question of what will happen to each other in the future. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister: How do you imagine the continued existence of Mutual, Solidarity, Capital Profits in the Health Insurance System and how do you intend to restore confidence in the functioning of the government and the competent institutions to citizens and citizens, as you have put the rights of more than 900 000 insured persons and insured persons in this title and the entire health insurance system in Slovenia at stake? Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you for asking. First of all, exactly how we plan to act. This is evident from the law you have on your hands; I hope it will soon be adopted in the third reading. In this case, this high assembly will be the one who will determine by special law what will happen to each other in the future. It's in your hands. At the previous meeting, I said at your fellow Member's question that we want to keep this insurance company in the direction it was set up - it is said to be a mutual insurance company. Who acted in time and who did not act in time. You know, honourable Member, if we were to go into history and figure out who set up this insurance company, what legal basis it gave her, which people were sitting in the administration and the supervisory councils, when these structures were formed, who was financed from these channels, and so on, I think the time we have at our disposal would be too short for a complete answer. When we talk about the victims, let me say that what the administration intended to do was not done, it is said, to transform the Mutual into a share society, was not done. So from this point of view, there was no injury. I think there has been a direct injury because, in recent months, there has been a lot of money spent by insurers to advertise certain activities that the Agency has considered inadequate, then a lot of money probably also for different legal opinions and various expertise that sought to justify the legal correctness of administrative procedures. A lot of money is probably also for media support, which was strong and still strong in some media. Also, I'll say, these connections are more or less very transparent if we've been following individual names for several years. Thus, there has been a certain injury here and I hope that the competent institutions will find out these things once again. The truth of the matter must be said that this would not be the first case. There have been a number of such cases in the last year, when the common money of shareholders was also used to a large extent by public funds to create a public scene favoured by individuals from the administration, so that they would not be replaced by someone else, to show better results in the public than they actually were, and so on. And it would be very good to have the same vats when it comes to spending money to defend the transition tycoons. I also point out that the functioning of insurance companies, including health insurance companies, is laid down in the legislation. The government here has the powers it has. Where there was no power, the government could not act. There is an independent agency that has adopted certain procedures, whether in due time or not, it is not a matter of the executive authority to assess this, but it certainly does not hold that there were no procedures and that there were no measures. They were. And if we compare these procedures with some others so far, I think they were pretty quick. If we remember how the situation was partially similar in the case of the Triglav insurance company, then we can see that it was a story with a significantly longer beard. I must say that although there have been quite a few problems in solving this problem, I am pleased that, at least in this national assembly, it has proved, in the end, that money cannot buy everything, that the necessary political consensus can be reached in the end in order to change the relevant legislation when it turns out that there is a legal void that allows various speculations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Yeah, sure. Mr President, I am pleased with your answer because I expected it to be this way. I know you're always optimistic about the past and there you find reasons to say something about the present. But all the things, the main things, especially the damage you've been talking about, have been happening at a time when you're in power when you're Prime Minister. Surely you have in your hands tools to prevent this if not you, of course, Minister Bručan or Minister Bajuk. So I'm wondering if you're going to have a more difficult conversation with them. However, given that the responsibility was in their hands, of course this also applies to the Director of the Agency, Mr Goriška. Things were very late, and in the end, so much firefighting was being done in the National Assembly. I think they'd certainly deserve to be called to some responsibility, and maybe someone else. Since you mentioned that the back story could be very long and complicated and that there is no time now, I would also ask for a written answer or an explanation, so that things will be perfectly clear to me. But I'm still wondering, how do you see each other? It's either like sticking to your "me, you, me" principle or like the "you stick to me, I stick to you" principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	So I can repeat that in the government we see the Mutual in the future as it was meant to be when it was established, as a mutual insurance company. How to deal with this in practice is a matter of special law, which, as has already been said, you will have to accept it and the government will propose it in due time. It is not a simple question, and given that it is a strong institution that has had a monopoly for some time, we will deal with it differently, as has been the case so far, and I think that this is the right path. The government cannot call for the responsibility of an independent agency; I also do not believe that this agency has acted. She did. Compared to some other procedures or similar practices, it is likely that it was significantly faster or faster enough, but it will turn out. The fact is, however, that the decision as predicted and probably not the right one has not been made. It is said that strategically speaking, action was timely. The fact that money was spent in the middle of various things, including to justify certain procedures that were not justified. You know, this hasn't just happened in the last year. This government has not established the current administration of the Mutual Council; it has not set up the present congregation and not the current supervisory council. If you look at the history and political pedigree of members of the Supervisory Board of the Mutual Assembly, there you will find people who have run on the lists of present opposition parties who were formerly in positions, there you will find people with a strong financial backdrop from one of the factions of the Liberal Democracy; there you will find known names from the Slovenian transition that have on their accounts today and in the clearing-deposit books billions of assets. But you won't find any ties to the current government there. After this faction had dealt with the previous president of the administration, Dr. Arhar, she had just set up the administration she wanted, and this administration is now doing what it does.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Prime Minister the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, in your opening statement, when you spoke as a candidate for Prime Minister to Members and Members of the National Assembly, you said, among other things: "I also promise that we will respect the opposition as an integral part of the constitutional order, that we will strive to adopt all good proposals, regardless of who their author will be." At this meeting of the National Assembly, which began today, three important proposals for laws tabled by Members and Members of the Social Democrats are. At a meeting of the mother's labour body, all three proposed laws were recently assessed as inappropriate by the Social Democrats. More than that, we are disturbed by the government's position on these proposals. In the case of the law on the participation of employees in company profits and on the ownership of employees, the government representative said: "The government opposes the so-called bill and proposes to the National Assembly not to accept it as an appropriate basis for the next stages of the legislative procedure because it will prepare its law." The Law on Amendments to the War on Disabled Persons Act was the government's position: "The government in principle supports solutions in this proposal, but considers it weak and needs to be complemented." The government is therefore preparing its own law, which is in government procedure. As for the third draft of the law, amendments and additions to the asbestos law, the government has announced that it does not support it because it does not bring anything, although we know exactly that it does not. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you: How do you really picture the role of constructive opposition, who is preparing amendments and amendments to laws against which the government does not make substantive objections, and in doing so again and again we get an answer that the government does not support the proposal because it is preparing its proposal? He asks you, Mr President: Is this government's conduct in line with your promises to run for Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you for that question. Where we, or where the government has taken an initiative, responded only to the proposal of the law that we reject this initiative, because we will prepare our own, and we have not explained it, I admit that we have not done the right thing; we have only copied the same formulation as we used to have for twelve years and which we have sometimes criticised. This is a standard formulation that has always occurred when the opposition has ever filed a law. We can look at dozens, we could even say hundreds of cases, and where we have repeated these formulations, I agree that it is not right. If one thing is rejected, then it must be argued. We regret that there are three such cases or two of them at this meeting. However, this is not enough to argue that the opposition's proposals are disregarded or that, in principle or in the basic approach, we do not respect the proposals made by the opposition or the opposition is disregarded. At the very beginning of this mandate, this coalition has fulfilled two important promises in this direction. Firstly, in all companies where the government has a majority share or both state funds, the opposition has also been offered seats on the supervisory boards. All three opposition parties adopted this proposal and representatives of the opposition are also sitting in all the main supervisory councils. After a few months, when most appointments were stopped, two opposition parties refused further cooperation, and one of these candidates from Liberal Democracy then stepped out, I think, from the Electro supervisory board, but everyone else is still there and this part is being realized. As long as it does not come true, it is not on the fault of this coalition, but on the basis of the position you yourself have adopted. We have also promised that the National Security Council will include representatives of the opposition and we have done so, we have included the President of the largest opposition party, unfortunately there is no longer a President now, so that we will have to make a change or wait for a while to see who will finally remain, but we remain in that position. When the budgets for this year and for the following year were voted on, 13 amendments were adopted or supported by the opposition. If we look back when the Slovenian Democratic Party was in opposition, then in all 8 or 12 years, there were not as many opposition amendments accepted to the budgets as at this year's and the next year's budget. Here I have a list by the ministries of ten proposals made by the opposition to various laws supported by the government coalition. It's no problem to list them. However, there are also examples, for the first time in principle, to say that nowhere is going on, that all the opposition's proposals should be taken into account. There's no country! Since in three cases there would be no division into position and opposition at all, we would all have the same programme because we don't have it, we are probably also taking on some of the different things. The coalition cannot just support everything the opposition proposes, but we are trying to choose or support within it what is generally good for everyone. Another time. Especially when it comes to marriage proposals, the main problem is the opposition, and our problem was sometimes that the lack of information, sometimes due to lack of time, makes it difficult to calculate certain consequences of the law, especially the financial consequences. And this is the main problem with opposition laws, when it comes to financial effects on the budget, things are measured over the thumb and it is very difficult in this part to attach proposals to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you. Completing the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the answer you gave. Now, if we were to do an accurate analysis, of course we could comment on each of us, but I think that many more of the opposition's proposals have been rejected than taken into account. But maybe that was the case in the past, maybe ministers or professional co-workers of ministers are copying the texts that the previous ministers sent to Parliament in the previous term, but I would like to point out in this regard that I expected some progress in this mandate, some leap from the past to the present, if not to the future. Let me tell you that many times an amendment has been tabled, where the opposition MP is signed, this amendment has been rejected and the amendment proposed by the coalition has been adopted with exactly the same content. Speaking of legislative proposals, let me say that this first proposal for a law on profit participation, which was tabled on 1 May last year, has been identified by the Government in a written session and rejected by it. As her own, however, she somehow adopted a law passed by another opposition party and processed it well in her image; so she could have done so with other laws if she had been willing to do so. As for the supervisory boards, yes, you did, but I remember this last one, the RTV supervisory board, where we, as the other opposition party, proposed the candidate, were slightly rejected. But the question is, above all, I do not want to make matters worse: I want your position on the functioning of the opposition or your cooperation with the opposition in the coming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	With regard to this latter, I would say that the Social Democrats in the current authorities, the newly elected authorities of RTV, have significantly more representatives than the second largest opposition party, than the Slovenian Democratic Party at any time than the largest opposition party. I think there's a lot of progress here. As for this addition, which we have heard, I am pleased to say that the Member of Parliament has said that many times, when the government coalition simply adopted the same text, or the amendment tabled by an opposition Member, with the same content, with only another signature. Now, if it is for content, then you can be very pleased that all of this has been accepted, because it is finally about those solutions that you yourself have proposed. In the end, who is signed under a matter is completely irrelevant, but it is important that it be realized. I personally don't understand that someone is copying the same solution, and I don't know if that ever happened completely. It can be. I don't think that's a big news either. With regard to the basic issue, as you have announced, I promise that I will do everything I can to ensure that the next time any proposal by the opposition is rejected, this will be justified. So it will not only be written that we reject the proposal, because we will make a better one. Such an explanation has sometimes put pressure on me in previous mandates, but it will indicate what is good, what is wrong and why it is necessary to make a better proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr President of the Government will be asked a question by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and colleagues who are here! Mr. Prime Minister! Slovenia is one of the EU's most developed new members, with 81% of the EU average already being developed, according to the latest data. At the same time, it is one of the three candidates who intends to take over the euro in 2007 and is the only one among those countries that already fulfils these conditions for taking over the euro. I wonder: How do you assess the economic progress of Slovenia? Are there any obstacles that could prevent Slovenia from actually taking over the euro in 2007? Thank you so much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for asking. In fact, Slovenia has achieved 81% of the average European development according to Eurostat's latest data. Of course, this is a percentage in the enlarged EU. In this new family we are in the middle, now slowly in the upper half, and in fact from the candidates for entry into the EU's narrow core, it is said that Slovenia is the only one that meets all the criteria that it can already meet. We meet four of the five Maastricht criteria. Last but not least, the true stability of the exchange rate over a two-year period in the Euro waiting room cannot be met, since this deadline is not due until the end of June of this year. But there will be no problem with this, given that the stability of our course has so far been significantly greater than that criterion. When it comes to other criteria, the budget deficit, where we must not exceed 3% of GDP, is at this point up to 1.7%, so we are very good here, even if we compare ourselves with countries that are already members of the euro area. Debt is limited according to these criteria to 60% of gross domestic product. We are below 30, which means that we are also very good under this criterion, even compared to some of the founding members of the euro area. The price stability or inflation criteria were 2.5% in the euro area last December. This too has been accomplished, and this has been in some ways the hardest of all. Slovenia has met this criterion despite the fact that this objective was largely threatened by an increase in growth or by rapid rises in global oil growth. The impact of energy prices in Slovenia has a greater impact on inflation than in larger economies, and this has been the greatest risk and also in the light of the question you have asked, in these months, this is probably the only foreseeable potential risk that will remain until the criteria are met, but in our opinion it will not be such as to jeopardise the achievement of this objective. When it comes to the fourth criterion, interest rates, I think there is a 5.4% criterion here, Slovenia is on 3.8% and we are on a very safe side in this regard. Despite these encouraging macroeconomic data, despite this data, the latest data that we are at 81% of the European average should be added that there are other criteria, other criteria, that there are also comparisons of the competitiveness of individual companies, economies. In this regard, Slovenia is in the enlarged European Union in that group of countries that need reforms or in that third of European countries that are in relatively good shape and can therefore implement reforms without making the social situation worse for anyone if they are implemented in a timely manner. From this very point of view, the government has prepared or adopted a development strategy, Slovenia has prepared and adopted a framework for economic and social reforms, and from this point of view we will also propose all the necessary legislation this year on the basis of which Slovenia can implement this modernisation in a timely manner so that positive, economic movements can continue in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. At the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, the MEPs are Ms Mag. Majda Potrat and Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar and Mr Miro Petek, asked the Minister of Economy of Mags questions. Mr Andrej Visiak, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Dimitri Rupl and Minister of Justice of Dr. Lovr Šturm. Since the ministers were not present at the meeting, the Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel and the Minister for Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm, are excused to be absent today, so they will be sent to the question of mag. Majde Potrat and Moice Kucler Dolinar responded to the next meeting. Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak will answer Mira Petk's question regarding the granting of grants to companies moving abroad. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much, honourable Member for your question. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! Of course, the Ministry of Economy's action in the past was intended primarily to encourage businesses to internationalise their specific advantages in international markets. This was a key objective and several calls were also made under this measure. I'm talking only about the past term. We did not continue these calls within the mandate of this Government mainly because of certain dilemmas or the open issues raised by the allocation of funds. The invitation to tender concerning the question referred to by the Member States was therefore intended for companies from different activities, not just from the textile industry, as the example of Prevent was cited here. To make it easier for companies to maintain themselves, certain production phases with low added value were forced to transfer to countries with lower labour costs. Thus, companies have maintained themselves and in the parent company in Slovenia have implemented a transformation aimed at introducing new products and services of higher added value. This is a key message of why such calls have appeared in the past and what was the overriding purpose. Therefore, it was not intended to finance the opening of products in foreign countries by means of taxpayers' money and non-refundable financial means, which would then also directly compete with domestic companies, but rather the primary purpose of the call for an increase in the sales of products and services by Slovenian companies on the foreign market, the opening of new markets, the transfer of knowledge and the reduction of costs. It is true, however, that these funds have missed this purpose many times and, in fact, it has occurred on one side of the consumption of tax money, on the other hand, the relocation of production to other markets, at the same time no new market opportunities have opened up in other markets, nor has production with higher added value or services at the intellectual level in Slovenia been maintained. Thus, the Prevention Group received a good 54 million grants under this heading. In 2001, at a public invitation to promote the market and manufacturing redirection of textile and clothing companies, it received 16 million 700 thousand dollars, and at a public invitation to promote the modernisation of the labour force and the restructuring of the companies, it received 2 million 458 thousand, and at a public invitation to promote internationalisation, it received a million 280 thousand. That was in 2001. In 2002, the group received 19 million tolars for the initial investment of Slovenian companies in the public tender in 2003 and another 10 million 239 thousand tolars in the public tender for the promotion of the initial investment of Slovenian companies. In a public invitation to tender in the same year, 2003, and for the promotion of market, technological and human resources renovations of the textile industry for a further 2 million 320 thousand tolars. In 2004, the same group received 2 million 550 thousand tolars in the public tender for the introduction and upgrading of continuous improvement systems. In 2004, they also applied for funding of exit investments, but did not receive funding. Prior to 2001, no calls were made for the promotion of exit investments, as well as in 2005 and 2006. Thus, during the period 1995 to 2005, the company has never received funds under the law on rescue and restructuring companies in difficulty, nor has it ever applied for that money. The government has a programme to promote internationalisation based entirely on other measures such as these.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. Would you like to complete the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I expected such an answer in some way because they had already sent me a similar answer from the Prevention Group without asking them to do so. Of course, these various subsidies have been much more in recent years; perhaps some are hidden. If we look at the Court of Auditors' report on the revision of the 2002 Mežice mine closure programme, we see that Prevent received 120 million tolls for 30 knaps, it is said, 4 million per person, but only 17. It is said that they have received 52 million grants for unemployed KNapps, as the Court of Auditors said in its audit. I wonder: Will the new government continue the practice of the former government, that is to subsidise companies that are in majority foreign ownership, and that is to open jobs abroad, which is to close jobs at home, which is what is now going on, or will the new government break up with this practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	That's right. I've already given you a piece of the answer. With regard to over-employment, of course, the answer concerns the Member's question, which was mainly about financing the opening of production in foreign countries with grants rather than the re-employment of workers from the cross-border mine, and therefore these figures are not mentioned. It is likely that the Prevention Group received money from a number of other sources, both from other ministries and probably for other purposes. Once again, as far as exit investments are concerned, I have said the funds received. The main purpose of these investments was not to promote the relocation of production, but to maintain the competitive situation of these companies in the domestic market and to move only to the part of production that is not competitive at home. Hand to heart, I think the basic purpose is to say, but I think that there are too many risks to such grants, so the current government in the adopted internationalisation programme, which it has already adopted, no longer envisages such measures, but especially other measures, the establishment of representative offices of the Slovenian economy, which will be the basic aid for the penetration of, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises into foreign markets where small and medium-sized enterprises do not have infrastructure, not any access to basic information. If I repeat, this government has not implemented any such call for proposals in this period and does not intend to do so in the future, as there is no such item in the adopted budget for 2006 and 2007 nor is it included in the adopted programme of internationalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. The Minister of the Interior, who is absent today, will ask Dr Pavel Gantar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister, who is absent, and I also announce that I want him to answer me orally at the next meeting. I ask the Minister that recently there have been strong warnings about the unsustainable situation in the asylum home in Vič. Both in a petition signed by asylum seekers and in the media, we can see that there is inhumane treatment and violence by police and employees in an asylum home, and poor health care and even denial of medical care. There are also illegal threats by the asylum management of the home, which requires asylum seekers to cease their stay outside the asylum home, which indicates that the provisions of the new asylum law, which is still in the legislative process, are clearly being implemented. It is more or less clear to all of us that the period of respect for human rights in Slovenia is somehow narrowed down that from day to day, from session to session, we adopt laws that violate the space and the field of freedom. This is done by adopting a restrictive law on the protection of displaced persons, by adopting an asylum law and so on. We can only guess where this ends. That is why I ask the Minister: What specifically did he do at the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that the management of the asylum home, the police and the employees of the asylum home would no longer appear? Will he also require supervision of the staff and the direction of the asylum home regarding alleged abuses? Does it also require control due to alleged overriding of police powers? As I say, I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you. To the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Mag. Mr Matjaž Han will ask the smallest question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House of Commons! You have been predicting for some time that you will introduce a so-called system of easier workers' forgiveness, while also predicting some way of reducing social rights. People, or employees, are in fear of losing their job every day. This is also confirmed by the fact that companies in Slovenia have announced the dismissal of workers for moving production to countries where labour costs are lower. It is also worrying that these are mainly successful Slovenian companies, such as Prevent, Lek, Kolinska, Drugs, Beta and the textile industry in general. But these companies are mainly in less developed regions in Bela Krajina, Prekmurje, Posavje, Zasavju and also in Radeče municipality, where I come from. I've asked you several times, Your Honor, how this will affect your desire for increased fertility, and you haven't given me an answer yet. I myself estimate that fear of losing my job on the sea has a positive impact on the decision to have a child. Today, however, I would focus on another aspect of the problem. Lately you have started to talk about the safe flexibility of the labour market, this is a step forward, but the problem arises if we look at your statements in more detail. Safe flexibility according to the Danish example mentioned by your colleague, Minister Damjan, foresees, under the condition of easier forgiveness, also high compensations that ensure social security for those who lose their jobs, but, of course, enough jobs must also be available so that fired workers can quickly find a new job, but this is already a new story. Your views on social assistance, however, I have a feeling they're not going this way. At the hearing before the Maternal Committee, you stated that too much compensation is disstimulating people to work. Dear Minister, as you increase flexibility, I'm aware of it, but I don't want to speculate. I hope it's not just statistics that will satisfy people, but that real life is something else. Therefore, Minister, I ask for a concrete answer: What will be the measures that will increase the flexibility of the labour market?With what measures will you ensure that increased flexibility for employees is truly socially safe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, you must deny your claim that the government has never claimed that we will increase forgiveness and that we will reduce social rights. All documents clearly state that we will increase social justice and provide social assistance to those who really need it. With regard to some of the suspensions of production in the labour-intensive sectors, however, it can be said that this is the result of mismanagement of economic policy in recent years. And this government has said that it will not throw billions at completely missed investments or wrong decisions because we overestimate the taxpayer's money. However, as regards flexibility or reliability of employment, the following is the case. If you have closely monitored what has been going on in the last Council of Ministers for Work, you can clearly see that Europe is heading towards the so-called safe flexibility of work, safe flexibility. This was also highlighted by trade unions and accepted this approach in Slovenia as well as by the social partners at European level. Unless you're opposed to it, which would be kind of interesting. Security flexibility is not something that is incompatible, it is also clearly stated in this paper, which was presented to ministers last time in Beljak. This is compatible, and this brings more jobs. In particular, the future Europe will face job security rather than job reliability. And that's what we want. So it's an increase in employment. The Lisbon Strategy aims at 70% of employment and one option is labour market flexibility. If you ask me, what do we mean by that, I'd say the following. We have repeatedly stressed flexibility to the location, including spatial. This means that we may have to go somewhere else, so it is a good argument for us to establish good information channels and, on the other hand, work at home. Professional mobility. If we have been trained for something at the beginning of our lives, it is not a guarantee that we will do it all our lives. Lifelong learning is a key prerequisite and therefore this may also mean a change of profession. Employment, including different jobs in the workplace and more flexible working hours. Unfortunately, this sometimes comes at the expense of poor family and professional coordination, but in many cases it goes hand in hand. Eliminating barriers to non-collecting for indefinite periods of time. I repeat, in the reforms adopted at the government meeting, it clearly states, "...the removal of all obstacles that prevent the conclusion of an indefinite period of time." Employment of disabled people. The quota system introduced on 1 January is aimed at providing more jobs for people with disabilities, including subsidies granted to companies that are not obliged to work under the quota system, i.e. for small employers up to 20 employees. What was wrong was written in the newspapers at the expense of small employers. No, no, no. Small employers are not obliged to employ by quota, but they are encouraged to hire a disabled person. This means that all possible legislative, administrative and other obstacles that make it difficult for businesses to obtain additional employment or create higher added value should be removed. We have concrete measures for the employment of young people in particular, employment in the perspective sectors and employment of older people. For the employment of the elderly, you also have on the website a proposal for a law on employment and unemployment insurance. Novela, a change where we introduce additional incentives to recruit those over 50 and 55 years in order to have approximately the same entry opportunities for employment. We are aware that it is important to engage as many people as possible, both disabled and older. With regard to the elderly, one key point in the previous system was that, in a small proportion, those after 45 years of age were included in employment. We are putting very great emphasis on the activation of the unemployed. With regard to these high compensations, we have said that we do not agree with them. These range to up to 900 000 and in proportion, we disagree with them in our assessment in terms of fairness. Some benefits will also be increased or [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry I exceeded you in 15 seconds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	The technique has interrupted you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	In fact, I'm going to do the Minister a favor, considering he hasn't explained to me some of the things I wanted to hear. These are things that are only on paper and reality in everyday life is something else. So I really ask you to answer me: What specific measures will you take? This seems very important to me, and that is why I have come once again to give the Minister another chance these two minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	[[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Obviously for everyone through. [[...]] Otherwise, I can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	One moment, please. Is it not working? Press [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Now it's working. Thank you very much. The tech's working now. We have also changed the order by which some other regions can be included in active employment policy programmes. Also called White Landscape, where more forgiveness took place. But I can tell you that unemployment in December has decreased, that the number of employees in Slovenia has increased, which means that there are positive trends and restructuring follows us anyway. We also want to activate the Roma to a greater extent, as 95 and 98% of Roma are involved in the activity. This is important because they are the main recipients of social assistance. For the employment of those who find it difficult to find work, in particular mothers who go on maternity leave to be able to return so that employers do not refuse them, we have laid down in the amendment to the Employment Act that employers are exempt from contributions. However, the programmes of active employment policy, which we have already presented at the press conference, are of course more difficult to employ. There are a number of measures that benefit employees. We are aware, however, that key economic reforms are opening up the new investment cycle and that jobs will also emerge on this basis. We are aware that action on an active employment policy in a narrower sense cannot achieve all the results. I also agree with you and therefore not only social reforms and reforms in the labour market, but also economic reforms. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Otherwise, we can also prepare a written answer for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Honorable representatives of the government. My question is for the Minister of Transport, Mag. Christmas. Given that Slovenia has decided to take a more serious approach to more coherent regional development. To this end, however, the third development axis, which goes somewhere from Koroška through central Slovenia to the White Country, and one of the key things in this development axis is certainly a road link. It is justified to think about this highway connection, the fast road, it doesn't matter now that this road connection between the Styrian and the lower highway runs through Kozianska, a passage like Dramalje, past Šentjur, then somewhere near the Mountain, then connects to the lower highway. Such a solution would fully open up the development potential of this so far infrastructurally highly severed and also of the developmentally lagging regions of Slovenia. I share the opinion of those who say that the only route of this road through Kozianska would be in full function so that links to the road on both sides could be possible and this part of Slovenia would be fully linked to the Slovenian motorway cross and, of course, to Europe. Such a link would be welcome, in particular, I stress, especially for the tourist economy, which is already a generator of development in this part of Slovenia, while modest economic initiatives. I am convinced that if any part of Slovenia benefits the highway, then this is certainly this part of Slovenia, this is Kozjansko. Therefore, my question is: Has any professional study of the route mentioned between the Styrian and the Lower Highway been carried out, and if Kozian as one of the variants has been taken into account? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Mr. Minister Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. Activities for the preparation of the route, fast road or highway, on the so-called third development axis, have only just started and, of course, it is not possible to talk about the course of the route. I am convinced, however, that all the competent services, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, which runs the process of placing routes of state roads in the space, will examine the various possible routes of road connections and will eventually decide on the most optimal, given the different criteria that are taken into account when putting routes into space. But if I answer the question very specifically. The study of the motorway through Kozianska has not yet been carried out. Not because we wouldn't want to, but because no serious study has been done on the route between Celje and New Town. The Roads Directorate has so far produced only a study of rehabilitation of the existing state road Zidani bridge - Celje, which has little in common with the third development axis in the new sense. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Transport 20.1.2006 and 26.1.2006 have already given the competent Ministry of Environment and Space the initiative to draw up a state-level plan for the construction of a fast road between Celje, Novo Mesto and Belo Krajina. In view of the fact that the initiative for the preparation of the State Location Plan for the construction of a fast road between Dravograd, Velenje and the A1 Maribor - Ljubljana motorway has already been introduced on 12.10.2004, the process of placing the rapid road route into the area is now intensively carried out on the whole link of the third development axis from Koroška, Savinj - Shaleške region, Posavja, Zasavja, Dolenjska and Bele landscapes in the approximate length of 135 kilometers. The programme of the state location plan for the fast road between Dravograd, Velenje and the A1 Maribor-Ljubljana motorway is also being prepared. The first spatial conference is expected to be convened for this section in mid-February. For the section of the fast road between Celje, Novi Mesto and Belo Krajina, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport will proceed immediately to the preparation of the programme, the preparation of the national location plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary! In addition to several initiatives for this route through Kozianska, I would mention that on Thursday 26.1.2006 a new initiative was launched at the Summit in Šentjur, namely the mayors and Members from this area, so that this road link between Styria and the Lower Highway could somehow be placed in Kozjansko. So, somewhere, the Dramlje branch past St. Louis, as I mentioned. This meeting also sent a special initiative, I do not think you have yet received it because it is still being signed. It will also be joined by other Members and mayors, who were unable to attend the meetings because of their obligations, but expressed their willingness to join the initiative. I would also mention that this initiative is supported by Members and mayors, regardless of their clientele. This is said not to be a party initiative, but a broader interest. All those who have been there and who support this, we expect a professional approach when tracing and also taking into account national interest. We are convinced that this route through Kozian is sufficient for all these criteria, both professional and national. I wonder: When could the individual stages of this third development axis be realized, this is an approximation, I do not require dates? Of course, this should take account of the fact that we are also considering hiring a credit for the construction of motorways at this meeting. Is this also possible to be taken into account here and taking into account the cohesion funds that we can expect from the EU? I'm not asking for a date tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, because we know it's not working, because this third axis was practically not going to happen until after the new government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. On the additional issue, I would very briefly try to describe the whole process of adopting such complex programmes as putting routes into space and adopting a site plan. As soon as possible, there will also be a public debate on initiatives coming from more than one end. This initiative will also be considered equally in the selection study. I am confident that the ILO, which runs these procedures, will conduct these procedures properly and in particular in a balanced manner, taking into account all aspects of putting routes into space, in accordance with the criteria required. Very briefly. We would like to see a full location plan between Celje and the link to the White Krajina and then a link to the Republic of Croatia sometime by 2009. Then all the procedures that follow, buy land, design and then build itself. The fact is also that we have included this third development axis from our Transport Ministry in a priority infrastructure investment programme financed by European funds. That's how we did everything we needed to do so far. But it seems important to me that we have already begun the legal procedures and that they have run out. They will follow in the shortest possible time, of course with verifications, conceptual designs, variants that are on the whole move and also your initiative, which has been mentioned, through a vertical through Kozian, will certainly be treated equally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Zver, will ask Mr Mitja Slavinec a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! There is a school in Murska Sobota, which is certainly unique in Slovenia after it is located on two sides of the main street through the city. This is a secondary economic school, which is no longer spatially in line with the required educational standards and conditions. In view of the high interest of young people from Pomurje for education and programmes carried out at this school, school management and the local community have been suffering from severe spatial distress for a long time. This became so much bigger when, years ago, under the auspices of this school, a higher education programme was also launched, as there are no suitable spatial conditions and classrooms for this. They're in the Triglav Hospital class again across the main road. As a result, the municipality had already begun talks with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about the construction of a new economic school. In August 2004, according to the City Council of Murska Sobota, land was also transferred to the country, which is scheduled for the new location of the school. In September of the same year, a contract was signed with the then government on the start of the construction of the school under the financial lease system with the gradual purchase of leasing. This is what the new government later cited as the reason for halting construction and is now really supposed to start and be refinanced, as originally envisaged, by the leasing system. As soon as the previous construction of the new economic school building is important not only because of the spatial hardship and inadequate conditions in the old school, but also because of the personal safety of students and students who have to cross the main transport line several times a day through the city of Murska Sobota, which exposes them to immediate risks. The higher school will also move to new premises, and this project is so much more important for students and students from across the region. In view of all this, I am interested in: When can we expect the construction of a new economic school in Murska Sobota and when will construction be completed? What school year will students and students start working in a new building? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	Mr. Secretary Dr. Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Mr President, honourable Member, Dr Mitja Slavinec! Thank you for asking. The question of the secondary economic school in Murska Sobota is actually a pressing one. Last time I looked into the situation last year when I visited this school, and in fact the Ministry of Education and Sport will continue its efforts, in 2004, to obtain a new secondary economic school in Murska Sobota. Indeed, conditions are unsustainable for quality learning. But it is another factor, and it is the safety of students who are actually living on the edge of security. The procedure for the execution of a contract for the selection of the contractor for the financial lease with a gradual buy-in is in progress. I think it'll be over in a month or two. It should be completed by March at least. Then the work will begin, and I am sure that in 2007, 2008, the school year 2007/2008, we will be able to open the facility and that students will be able to move to a new school, of course also higher school students. This school is of great importance. This is true, you are right, also for the development of higher education in Pomurje, Prekmurje, but above all, I would like to see that later, when good working conditions are given, there are additional programmes at the school in the centre, not just social and medium-economic, but additional ones, as well as in higher education. Right now we are in the middle of an intensive change in programmes based on new starting points, both secondary and higher education. I am confident that Prekmurje or the teachers and management of these schools will take advantage of this opportunity and that the school will actually mean a new law, a wind in the sails of Prekmurje's development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your encouraging response that in 2007/2008 learning should begin. I wonder: Do you already have the dynamics of construction, and when can you expect the construction to begin? I am interested in this because, too often, it has become complicated with the beginnings and then, of course, the completion of the construction, and not least, the start of the activity that is to be carried out in certain buildings, precisely because of some complaints and other complications in the award of the works and the construction itself. In Pomura, the problem is very pressing because of these reasons, a long - standing obstetrician does not yet perform the function. That's why I want to know: Is this period also reinforced by time dynamics? When, in particular, can we expect the beginning of a building with possible complaints? As we say, it's because of the bad experience we have in Pomour. I particularly raise this question because people are most interested in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you, for that additional question. Of course, I can't guarantee ahead. I cannot predict the unforeseen situation, but the professional services assure me that in 2007, at the beginning of the school year, there will be a new school, that this summer will be able to start building, that we will get a school of 5,600 square metres, that the investment is worth 3.4 billion Slovenian tolars, which we will provide now that these procedures are completed by March. I think we have all the key mechanisms to start the school building or to be ready in the spring, and I don't think there's any reason for anything to get mixed up again. We are expecting a new school in the next school year 2006/2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will raise a question of the matter with the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant, and with the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuku. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Bajuk for his very comprehensive written answer to my oral question at the previous meeting on the use of money for air transport, daily subsistence and hotel services abroad. From a response covering the last three years, it is more obvious that both previous and current government savings in this area were still foreign. And it was this conclusion and discussions in recent weeks on the savings and rational use of budgetary money that encouraged me to raise this question today. In fact, Minister Virant, at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, when talking about the Law on Public Sector Salaries, you said, inter alia, [[Quote]] : "We are serious about saving in the public sector. That is why we are also reducing salaries for officials to show a responsible attitude towards the budget and taxpayer's money. Therefore, the functions we perform work for the public benefit and not for our own personal benefit. Once again, it is necessary to look at the whole, not just the individual trees in this forest." [[End of quote.]] The functions of the supervisory authorities called by the government and the state are such an example of individual trees that no one goes up to, and neither do you, Minister Virant. The appointed and placed in these supervisory bodies shall receive as many meetings as possible and in some companies and institutions even annual monetary prizes. Some also sit in three, four, and more supervisory bodies. I therefore believe that this could also be the case for austerity measures, and I ask: How many ministers, secretaries of state and senior government officials are appointed by the current government to the supervisory and management bodies of companies, institutions, funds and other legal entities whose owner or co-founder is the State? What are the meetings, prizes and any other monetary compensations resulting from appointments to those bodies? And third: What are the monetary revenues of members of the supervisory authorities of Slovenian subsidiaries and insurance companies abroad whose co-owner is a country?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. My colleague, Minister Bajuk, and I will share the answer to this question, which is very well-founded and very convenient. First of all, it must be said that the membership of civil servants, in some cases also of officials, in the supervisory authorities and public sector management bodies is not illogical, but is logical and common, since the government in these institutions exercises the institutional rights and supervision of these legal persons. The applicable law on the prevention of corruption in the second paragraph of Article 20 also provides for officials that a professional official may be a member of a board of public authorities, a public agency or a member of a supervisory board of a public undertaking, a public fund or an economic company in which a State or a local community holds a business share, shares or other rights on the basis of which it is involved in the management or capital. The statistics you asked for are like that. On the part of the current government, the following officials and senior government officials - five ministers, nine secretaries of state, eight secretaries-generals, one head of government service, six heads of government in the Ministry and 17 directors-general of the Directorates-General - were appointed to the supervisory bodies and administrations of public law. This is about the number of those who have been appointed to these bodies. The second segment, which is really important, is the arrangement of payments or meetings for participation in these bodies. You are absolutely right that this is an integral part, if you want, of saving or forming part of paying officials and public servants from public funds. The current payment arrangements are flawed. There is currently no single regime, with the exception of one decision and one government regulation to be discussed by Minister Bajuk. However, the Ministry of Finance has in preparation or has already drawn up a draft regulation to deal with these issues. In this internal division of labour within the government, it was somehow agreed that this regulation should be prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Dr Bajuk will tell more about it, but will be based on a single regulation for all persons of public law and will take into particular account the fact that membership in the supervisory authority or in the body of performance can be an integral part of the service obligation and that public servants should be paid only when it comes to additional and specific burdens, and that this must also be limited so that one cannot be a member in five or, I don't know, ten councils and receive meetings for that. I'm sure you're also interested in top officials, that is, ministers. As I said, five ministers sit in such bodies, namely ministers: Drobnik, Podobnik, Žagar, Bajuk and Vizjak. Minister Drobnič and Minister Bajuk shall not receive any meetings or compensation for this. Minister Podobnik as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund receives a meeting of 56,000 tolls per meeting, net and for the ecological fund of 34.000 800, net, for the meeting. And Dr. Zhagar for the Regional Development Fund and the Preservation of Population Meetings amounting to 22,000 dollars net. Like I said, mag. Smallpox and Dr. Bajuk do not receive these meetings or any compensation for this, and other ministers are not members of any supervisory boards or management bodies in public law. When adopting this Regulation, we will seriously consider the justification for the receipt of meetings for membership in such management bodies or supervisory authorities, where they are held by ministers [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Of course, it is necessary to say that these arrangements are not available at this time, so none of them can be seen to take something that does not belong to him. [[..]] And these meetings are regulated by the internal acts of these companies, public funds, public agencies and so on. Finally, I would say once again that I find the question very convenient and that we are very serious about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Dr. Bayuk, you have no more time left. Mr. Kumer, do you have a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you. I have an additional question to give Minister Bajuk a chance to say something. I'm partially satisfied with the answer, and I was expecting it because my lists show that, too. However, I am more interested in state secretaries and other high-level officials, who are not only on the boards of the funds, the supervisory boards and so on and so forth, but also in economic operators, such as banks, insurance companies and so on. In addition to meetings at the end of the year, there are also high monetary rewards. In these supervisory boards and boards there are also government officials. That's why I'm going to ask again the question that Minister Bajuk will answer for me. Will this regulation also regulate this area, for example, to give two illustrative examples, Andrijana Starina Kosem will no longer sit in the supervisory board of KAD, Holding of Slovenian Railways, Petrola, New Ljubljana Bank, or your former State Secretary, who is now our colleague in the National Assembly, Mr Špiletic, in the KAD Assembly, the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana, New Credit Bank Maribor, the Agricultural Land Fund, the Management and Counselling Society and so on? In addition to this regulation, which will regulate these meetings, I am interested in: Does the government or you in particular at the Ministry have a concrete proposal to take any decision to ensure that these high-ranking government officials do not sit on these boards, but that the government, through its staff, can also appoint "insiders" from the outside, who are equally professional and able to perform this function on behalf and on behalf of the State?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your question. It is true that this is a very complicated matter because it is regulated by two. The Regulation on Meetings and Other Costs of Public Funds, which applies only to public funds. On the other hand, the 2001 government decision, which is then supplemented in 2002, lays down the criteria for the establishment of meetings of members of the supervisory boards in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and in public undertakings of which the Republic of Slovenia is the founder. In the Ministry of Finance, we have been given this task, and in fact this regulation, at least as far as it is concerned, I would say, these public funds and public agencies, we will unify this. As for your particular question, and also the case you have given, the former official, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, I will say that in at least most of the positions you have mentioned, we have already appointed others, because they are primarily representatives of the Ministry of Finance. As you know, these are certain institutions where the consequences of the public financial system are very high. Therefore, we are concerned that the people who directly answer to the Ministry are present there and are acting on our behalf. This provision is already in the so-called inter-resort coordination, which is coming to an end, so I expect the government to deal with this in the next two weeks. We also intend to regulate everything concerning public funds and public agencies, including those not included in this system. This is not easy because we do not have a legal basis for this because some agencies and certain public funds have some special status under the law they have established. We're studying all of this right now. We are also studying how the Government's decision, which was adopted in 2002, is being implemented in relation to companies that are predominantly state-owned. Before Monday, it would be impossible to collect this information. Some companies refer to business secrecy, which I still have to check. But I strongly promise you that I will also convey to you what I have at my disposal. I think you have every right as a national council to know about these things. If it's business secrecy, you'll get it on a confidential basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Beast. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Sport is certainly an important social activity and an expression of its dynamics in the general culture, which has a very wide impact on the various events in our society. Sport has certainly reached a level of development that requires an ingenious system of regulation of professional, organisational and management tasks, both at the level of local communities and at the level of the state. This is what we wrote in the introduction of the national sport programme in the Republic of Slovenia, and we also wrote that the State of Slovenia will promote the development of sport with financial and professional support, particularly in areas that have a significant impact on the development of sport, such as education, training and training of professional staff, the construction of sports facilities, professional and research activities. It will follow the provisions of the adopted sports legislation and other international instruments in this area. We have written down certain regulations in the national programme and in the law on sport. I just want to remind you that we are in frame VI. Chapters 3 and 3 have been recorded as forming public institutions and that the Institute for Sport of Slovenia performs the tasks defined in Article 24 of the Law on Sport at the level of the State. The Law on Sport sets out in Article 24 very clearly the tasks and competences of the institution, which are set out in several indents. Although we have the legal basis both for the establishment of a sports institution in the national programme and the law on sport, on 19 January this year the government adopted a decision on the termination of the public institution for sport of Slovenia, despite the conditions set out in Article 54 of the Act on institutions, in the third indent, which may arise in such a situation. He says: "If the founder adopts an act of termination of the institution, because they have ceased the needs or conditions for carrying out the activity for which the institution was established." Of course, the rationale put forward by the applicant for the Government's decision states that by transferring the activities currently carried out by the Sport Institute to the Ministry of Education and Sport, all activities will continue to be of the same substantive scope and thus to the same financial extent as they have been. That is why, Mr. Minister Beast, I would ask you: What led your ministry and then the government to take a decision on the termination of the public institution of the Republic of Slovenia for sport?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, Mr Germich. Indeed, the government has recently adopted a decision to abolish the Institute of Sport and its accession to the administrative department of the Ministry of Education and Sport. This measure was implemented by agreement with the co-founder, the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, for the following reasons. The first is definitely trying to rationalise the work a little bit more. It must be said that the institution was a rather dislocated unit with a high degree of autonomy. It performs certain tasks, which will then be carried out by the Ministry as an administrative authority, but does not perform all the tasks which it should perform under the establishment law. Let's say it's a matter of conducting a survey. For this reason, too, it is an issue of information technology. We have a strong information service in the Ministry. This institution had its own, but has not been qualified to perform or has not yet carried out all the surveys. We have a view of professional athletes, private sports workers and a view of sports facilities. Five more are missing, and I hope that the information pooling of all these capacities will make it easier for us to carry out this task in the administrative department. We are counting on the Ministry to better coordinate certain activities, and we will avoid some duplication. As for the professional support, both for us and for the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, we will make sure that this will not be left behind. We are obliged - indeed, you have rightly found - to have a public institution in the field of sport by law, but I am thinking in this direction to establish a public institution in the field of sport, together with a college for sport, where there is already an institute for sport and which is already preparing or has in the past done many professional tasks both for the ministry and for the general public sport sphere. In short. The main reason is rationalisation, better coordination of work, economics and - I am sure - also the efficiency of work or at least of that work managed by the public sports institution so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I am very disappointed with him, because in one point you have not justified me on whether you respect the legislation adopted in this national assembly, namely the national programme and the law on sport, which clearly defines the role of the sports institution. That's the first one. Another time. When I read the proposal for justification for the decision you have taken, of course, it does not speak anywhere about what you have been talking about today. For nowhere is there really any analysis of the reasons why such rationalisation is necessary, and nowhere is there any analysis of what will be the organisation and more successful work in the field of sport when you learn what is possible today in your or maybe any other head. Of course, there is no answer today as to what will happen to employees or, if you are carrying it with content - so we are not changing the content, nor the financial, it is only about supporting what is possible, I would say, the wider the sports sphere, which has contributed to the organisation in many years to organise itself as it is. Of course, when I monitor all this income, I can assess it, because you did not answer me with any argument of necessity. Not in terms of the position of Minister Virant up to 11 employees, as the government has a programme to reduce employees in the state administration. This means that you, if you will, will transfer these 11 employees to your ministry or this ministry is now in a situation where it can either accept these programmes into its implementation. Then I wonder how all these sports activities will be carried out for young people who are not only involved in the curriculum of your area, but are taking place mainly in the afternoon, at weekends, etc. Of course, this leads me to believe that sport has become just one of the following areas of politicization, and Mr. Minister, I would like you to deny me in this additional response. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Employees come to the Ministry of Sport. It is true that the government has set itself the objective of reducing the number of employees in the administrative work, thus somehow reducing costs, but it will do or affect the reduction of these costs in the public sector too, it is not just an administrative part. Last but not least, we are ministers responsible for individual social subsystems, including the public sectors that have grown in recent years as mushrooms in the rain. All this burden on the taxpayer's money, all this irritates the country, and it is right to try to reduce the reduced costs in the public sector as well, and this will continue a little later. In sports, I would like to stress once again the following. What we have done is done not only to reduce costs, but to make the work of the people working on these tasks more effective and effective. Control over these activities will be much better, coordination of tasks will be much better, because we will allow people from sport to better cooperate with the primary education directorate. And I can assure you that the tasks performed so far by the Sports Institute will not disappear, especially in the field of sport for young people. Now, practically, people will be employed in one house and will be able to coordinate work as much as possible when some in Tivoli have worked much harder with our education office and primary education directorate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuk. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! At the end of last year, the National Assembly also adopted two supplementary budgets for 2006 and 2007, submitted by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Let me remind you, there were a total of 3 million Slovenian tolars of budgetary resources under the heading Experimental and Development Programmes of Social Protection and Co-financing of the non-governmental sector in the budget consumer of the Ministry of Labour. The explanation, which is a mandatory component of each amendment and which is, last but not least, an integral part of the government budget proposal - the explanation shows the purpose of certain funds on each item - made it clear that these funds go towards the functioning of the association against sexual abuse. I believe that you are all well aware that 3 million Slovenian Tolars means simply covering the basic costs of the association. So these funds would actually mean helping the country with a specific social protection programme in the area of sexual abuse, which, according to data in Slovenia, is becoming more and more difficult. In the vast majority, the MPs supported both amendments. At the same time, the words of decency and morality were heard by government Members. The amendments were adopted, funds have been confirmed, as I have already said, at 3 million Slovenian Tolars for 2006 and 2007 for a concrete comprehensive programme of assistance to victims of sexual violence. At the beginning of 2006, there were no funds in the association's account. On 6 January, I already asked you a written question; I received an answer on Thursday, last week, late afternoon. You're only saying [[I'll quote]] : "When they receive funds from the association, it is up to the Ministry of Labour to carry out the allocation procedure in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia." [[End of quote.]] Let me remind you again, Minister, the amendment has been adopted. This has provided funds in the budgets specifically for the Association against Sexual Abuse. Such behaviour when you refer to a public invitation to tender is, in fact, a 'unicum' in our country, our space, and I really hope that it will not become a practice of this government. Excuse me, Minister, I just want to guarantee or answer the question: Why the new rules? And once again I ask the question: Will the association, which in spite of all that has just signed up for the invitation, also receive the mentioned funds of 3 million tolars, which is not the last thing that this national assembly has provided?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you so much for asking. It is true that you asked this question on 9 January. According to my information, I signed the 18th, but I don't know when you got our answer. The fact is, things have been going on just like you just said. In view of the adoption of the amendment in this national assembly, you have personally proposed it on behalf of your parliamentary group. And this is that on budget item 4027 - Experimental social protection development programmes and co-financing of the NGO programme at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs - increased by 3 million in 2006 as well as an additional 3 million in 2007. The fact is that, in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget, and this is in the procedures for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget - it is also necessary to follow the adopted rules on procedures for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This has already been accepted. And now it's just a matter of enforcement. How this will be done is not within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. I think that we have fulfilled our duty in that we have actually included the amendments voted, and there is a clear explanation as to what funds have been allocated, and the fact is that this must be allocated in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget. How this ministry will do this, whether it will work, what this call will be like, is unknown to me, but otherwise I will tell you that I think I will not reveal any secret if I tell you that there is no finance minister to watch his budget be amended. I'm really happy about this. I think that the objective or purpose of these funds is very important, and I hope that this will also be done in accordance with the wishes of this national assembly and in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Here you go, Mrs. Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. I have to challenge you for at least one piece. I have received answer 26.1 Although it is true that the date is 18.1. But once again, it is obvious that your services are so superficial or I will say inactive that we have only received an answer to 26.1. [[..]] And if you'll excuse me, I said that it's actually a matter of, I don't know, "smells by some weight." It speaks simply of the fact that, even at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is native to this area, they did not know how to deal with the matter. They also asked the Ministry for assistance to your ministry on January 9th and received an answer at the end of last week. The answer, however, is force similar to my answer. They only refer to the rulebook. I would ask you once again, also because you mentioned the law on the implementation of the budget - I hope that it is professionally well prepared and that this amendment, which has been adopted, can also be implemented under the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So once again, I would like to make it clear and loud that the association, which has applied for public tender despite uninterrupted proceedings, will receive the funds approved by this national assembly. This is a resource of 3 million Slovenian tolars, and the association certainly needs them only to cover the underlying funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Mr. Joseph Horvath. Excuse me, excuse me. Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Very briefly, because I would also like my colleague, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, to complete my reply. I don't know which jobs, or at the Ministry of Finance or in this National Assembly, could be blamed for the fact that the post office has been going around for six days. I'm looking at this date, it says 18.1 Maybe it's a mistake, but I don't think the core of the question is in it, and we won't waste any time on it. [[..]] Let me tell you once again that the Ministry of Finance does not have the responsibility to ensure the implementation of the budget in each ministry and in each budgetary user individually, so it is very possible that the response received from our services is as it was that the actual place where they have to answer this question is the Ministry of Labour. So I'd be very happy to ask my colleague to complete the answer, if you'll allow me. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you so much for asking. However, the answer is given within the legal time limit and has also come to the national assembly. So we can't discuss this in any way. In doing so, however, it is possible to make a somewhat unusual conclusion — that is, this amendment. It discusses activities under this budget item. However, the budget item shall be implemented on the basis of the invitation to tender. In this case, however, an amendment was adopted to increase funds for these purposes. And then the payment will be made on the basis of the rule of law. It will be somewhat difficult to establish a contract of what will be the subject of the contract, since the National Assembly has not specified exactly how this is done, what substantive tasks are, what costs are permissible, whether it is the functioning of a society or whether it is the implementation of the programme. Therefore, in other cases, it would be more consistent, probably with the professional services, the amendment and how it should be accepted. In accordance with the legal basis adopted by the National Assembly, that is, the legislative sphere of authority, we will execute the payment or implementation of the programme, as suggested by the adoption. It's no different.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Procedural suggestion, apparently.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask this National Assembly to support me in my wish or request that, despite all that, a broader debate be held at one of the future meetings or at the next meeting on the response of the Minister - one and the other. In fact, I believe and I have been asked many questions when I tried to get an answer, how can Members or those who have been confirmed by the amendment in the National Assembly or have been attached to certain funds under the budget actually benefit from these funds. There is still one major dilemma, which has also arisen to our legal and legislative service, whether the explanation, which is a mandatory part of the amendment to the budget, is therefore binding on the government. I am afraid that it can also happen in the future, but not only in the specific case that an amendment that has provided certain funds for a project in the National Assembly, but at least the construction of a primary school in a place, can be misused in the implementation of this budget and will be redeployed to another primary school. So much confusion remains, and neither has the Minister of Labour explained that point. However, if the government had already known that the contract was inadequate or that the contract was not in place, it should have been noted when the amendment to the budget was adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We continue to ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space and to ask Mr Jožef Horvat a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Madam Minister and Ministers! At its 54th regular meeting on 22 December last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation on the concession for the use of water for the production of electricity on the part of the Mura river water body from Sweet Vrh to Veržje. Under this Regulation, the concessionaire must ensure that the entire potential of the Mura is exploited by the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain, which is divided into two sections. The section of the Mura border with the state of Austria, where there are 6 hydroelectric plants - Sweet Vrh, Cmure, Konjište, Apache, Radgona, Radenci - and the section of the interior Mura where two hydroelectric plants are envisaged, namely Hrastje and Veržej. Intensive debates on the construction of the Mura power plant began in 1984 when the electricity industry published ideas for the construction of the Mura hydroelectric power plant chain. At that time, a very popular philosopher, ethnologist, publicist, journalist and ecologist Prof. Štefan Smej, who was able to mobilize the pomura, Slovenian and Central European public, played a key role in Prekmurje. Professor Smei put the attitude towards nature at the forefront of his work, and through this relationship he built a relationship with people or society. Today we are 20 years after these events, we count the beginning of the third millennium, we are facing marked climate change, we are seeing large amounts of water draining through the Mure stream in the dry years, we are experiencing a fall in groundwater, wetlands and sleeves drying. Last August, dismal people with superhuman efforts prevent the catastrophic spill of Mad Mura. There are areas on the Wall that are in Natura 2000, which means they are even more vulnerable. This fact cannot be understood that nothing can be done here, and that people in these places are deprived of any development. There are stricter criteria and requirements that must be consistently respected by everyone, whether energy or naturekeeper, if they want to stay and operate in this area. And from this comes my question, dear Minister for Environment and Space, Mr. Janez Podobnik: Is it even possible for your Ministry to accept power plants on Mura as energy objects, but also as lifeguards of dismal nature? Do you think the environmental inspectors will have enough power and a sensitive spirit to allow such energy interventions in the nether Mura that will establish and maintain a balance between nature and man? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much, honourable Member Horvat. First of all, I would like to express a respectful memory of Professor Laugh, who was very much meant to him by the river Mura. On your last question whether it is possible to strike a balance between man and nature with such a great project - the answer is yes. Indeed, times may have changed in a few decades, for the better. I would like to briefly justify the grounds for the government's decision on the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Space to grant a concession for the use of water in hydroelectric power plants at the part of Mura's water body from Sweet Top to Verje. The first basis is the resolution on the national energy programme and there in the energy chapter and space it is stated that the sites of existing hydropower plants will be maintained for electricity generation and potential locations on the upper part of the Mura River are envisaged as new locations. That's what we did. The second basis is also set out in the decree on the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which is a fundamental state document on the direction of development in space. Now there are some substantive arguments. Mura has very good hydrological conditions, for Drava the most pleasant in Slovenia. In one of today's Slovenian journals, someone wrote that the hydrological conditions were not assessed. They were. The wall has very good hydrological conditions. As the Member has already mentioned, there are a number of hydroelectric plants operating on the Muri River. And the Mura River is very energy-efficiently used only in the region of the Republic of Austria. The last Spielfeld power plant is built just before the river section, where the Mura River becomes the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria. As you said, in neighbouring Austria only downstream from Gradac to the border with Slovenia, they are operated by six, topographical, geographical, and ideological conditions are relatively similar to ours. These are the hydroelectric power plants of the flow type. So they reverse the water with the same flow as it flows. So far, a number of research, studies and project and technical documentation have been developed. One of the visible consequences of the construction of the power plant chain in the Republic of Austria is that the downstream riverbed has deepened significantly. This interrupted the steady flow of sales and the formation of fins on water sections. The river thus takes the material from the riverbed downstream in its current. The result is a deepening of the river bottom. Energy outposts. For the Mura River, as you mentioned, a basic energy use project was developed in 1963. In 1980, the system began to discuss this again. In our regulation we wrote: "The concessionary must ensure that the chain of hydropower plants on Mura operates passively and in line with the operation of the power plant chains on the Austrian side in the daily flow-accumulation regime." The Regulation provides that the concessionaire must examine and take into account all aspects of the benefits justifying the construction of the Muri hydroelectric power plant chain and also have an impact on the development of agriculture and forestry. Here I refer to irrigation systems, water pumps and a favourable impact on forestry, then an improvement in the environment. It is underground water, it is new biotopes, it is natural parks and water quality, it is about social development, it is about improving living conditions, including the sustainable income of the local community, not least the economic effects, it is about the development of new activities in this region of Slovenia. And finally, economic development, fisheries and fisheries, tourism, recreation, industry, economic impacts. In our view, the planning of the dams should be aimed at providing sufficient water: either as groundwater or as surface water. It is therefore necessary to ensure that environmental protection measures are implemented at the time of the construction of the Mura hydroelectric power plant chain, in which hydroelectric plants will be built as multi-purpose facilities. Their operation must, however, be subject to the protection of a sensitive environment near Mura, taking full account of the restrictive conditions arising from the Natura 2000 nature conservation programme in the area. In order to preserve biodiversity, it is therefore necessary to provide and maintain or even promote activities with a view to reducing the negative impacts on the nature of the Muri River and, at the same time, sufficiently researched for the planning and implementation of measurement measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, are you satisfied? Thank you. Let's keep asking questions. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Zaiovic, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to the ministers and ministers and to all colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns the geographical protection of Slovenian honey. We Slovenians have been an important and famous beekeeping nation in the former Austro-Hungarian country and we have also contributed to this common country by eminent experts, from Mr Janša on. Also, in the last two years, the Slovenian Beekeeping Union, representing more than 90% of Slovenian beekeepers, would like to protect this geographical origin by the name of Slovenia between, in particular, because most Slovenian beekeepers firmly believe that we have good, quality honey and that, with appropriate protection and branding for the whole country in Europe and Slovenia, we would better market it and thus increase the visibility of our country in Europe, although modest and small, but in this area important country. Almost a year and a half ago, the beekeeping union of Slovenia addressed the role of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and there this apparently demanding process does not progress as it should. My question is that, for the benefit of Slovenia, Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian beekeepers and, above all, European and Slovenian consumers, this area is well regulated primarily because it has been observed recently that, instead of having one region named Slovenian honey, which covers the whole country, it has been observed that, in recent times, overruns on the right have been carried out in order to protect "cochovski med" with some partiality and so on. Slovenia, as a region as a country, is so small in the European criterion that, according to the profession and experts, more appropriate protection with geographical origin and common name Slovenian honey. A number of questions are raised in this regard. I've pawned six of them to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Above all, I think and stress that the Ministry should decide on this role as soon as possible, because time is chasing us. After one of the variants of European legislation, we can run out of time in a two-year period as early as 1 May 2006. Above all, I am interested in the essential and substantive reasons why the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food opposes the beekeeping relationship of Slovenia, and in particular the legal and professional views on which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr. Ambassador Mag. Saivitz. The question relates to the acquisition of the designation of geographical origin Slovenski med. Discussions have been under way between the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia and the Ministry of Agriculture since 2003. Eight meetings were held, at least twice by the President of the Beekeeping Union, Mr Peterle. The last such meeting was held on 23 December 2005. The reason that the matter has not been settled is in the rules of the European Union, for three reasons. First of all, on behalf of you. The name of the country may be used only exceptionally and thus Luxembourg has an exception, Slovenia has different climate conditions and different geographical characteristics, which is reflected in the nature of the honey and the type of honey. Under the name Slovenski med would then mention different types of honey - forest honey, floral honey - which can also be questionable from the consumer's point of view. The Ministry is working towards a better solution to this problem for the benefit of all stakeholders. In 2004, my predecessors asked the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia to assume substantive responsibility for the consequences of the failure to protect Slovenian honey in the event of a negative solution at European Union level. Since there was no such statement, the Ministry failed to carry out the procedure. With regard to the question of the connection of the "Kočevskogneske med" and the "Karški med" with the Slovenian honey. I have to explain that the Kočevskognost honey and karst between them are linked to the narrower geographical area of the Republic of Slovenia and thus in accordance with the basic principles of European legislation, at the same time the name Slovenia does not appear on behalf of Slovenia. The Ministry has decided to hold another meeting with DG AGRI Director-General in Brussels, at which Mr Lojze Peterle, President of the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia, would also participate. The purpose of this meeting is to present the issue of protection of Slovenian honey at the level of the European Union. This is another attempt to find a solution that will be in favour of Slovenian beekeeping while at the same time complying with the Slovenian and European legal order. With regard to the issue of what we have done in the last year for beekeeping, I must say that last year we had a budget of 148 million because we implemented a programme of measures in the field of beekeeping. 98 million were spent, 50% was spent by the European Union and 50% by the national budget. For 2006, we have a total of slightly less than 400 million, namely for bee nuts as state aid of 225 million tolars and 152.7 million tolars for beekeeping measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Master Saiovic, would you like to complete your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Of course, I agree with the goodwill and the efforts they show in the ministry, but the word has not yet become meat, and in Slovenia, of course, the name "Slovenian" in the protection of the geographical origin of honey must not be ashamed and we must fight for this issue as long as such an option exists in Brussels to the least extent possible. If this has succeeded Luxembourg, why would the Slovenians be any worse in this area, then it is only necessary to be determined to address this problem. And that's exactly what bothers me. This fear of the ministry, which is simply not strong enough in the light of Europe and because it is a matter of national interest, is then such an excuse that, if we fail, certain costs will be incurred to burden the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia. This explanation does not seem quite right to me, because beekeeping brings a significantly greater benefit to all Slovenian agriculture and to the countryside than beekeepers themselves. And if that happens, we'll try and settle the budget. I am also disturbed by the fact that the Ministry does not act as a partner in this role of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, but acts as someone who sets some standards, some restrictions and seeks reasons to meet this great Europe, instead of putting himself on the other side, how to support and enforce the interest of the Slovenian farmer, Slovenian beekeeper and Slovenian consumer, to force something from this mother of Europe that is not ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	I agree with the mags. Saivica, but it must be said that we are dependent on the European acquis. I asked Mr Peterlet myself to try and lobby in this area so that we could succeed. I said that one such exception, which was long before Slovenia entered the European Union, was negotiated. We did not guarantee this in the pre-accession period, so now it is so much harder. We will try again with a joint effort with the Beekeeping Association, and we hope that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. It is our turn to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I have already asked you a specific question on the subject that I am once again asking. The government should set up a higher education agency by the end of last year, following the law on higher education. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and you, as the top of this Ministry, are responsible for the management of procedures and the preparation of relevant materials. The Agency is still missing, although it should have existed for almost four weeks. You had more than a year, but in the end you decided not to enforce the law. As Minister, when you were appointed, you swore to act legally and therefore there could be no excuse for violating the law, which is one of the fundamental laws under which your ministry operates. From now on, we are used to proposing and through the National Assembly bringing together so-called laws by horrifying methods that want to establish a beautiful new order, which is at least legal, because when we are not in law, it is right to at least change it, so that we can do differently than the law has prescribed until now. Individual ministers have already shown that they believe that they have more rights than ordinary citizens are prescribed by law. However, in order for any minister to raise such an open voice to the existing legislation, the new dimension of understanding power by the current coalition is the new dimension. I hope this is a lonely case, not a start to a new practice. It is also unacceptable for the Minister to decide not to respect the law, because it should be wasteful. By the way, sending an army to Iraq is wasteful, and no law of government makes it so. The projected 40 million savings from the higher education agency will not nearly cover all the costs of the mission, which is said to cost 160 million tolars. Obviously, the risk training of foreign soldiers to this government is more important than the quality of domestic higher education. Dear Minister, once again I ask for a clear answer: What legal basis gives you the authority not to enforce the law? When will you start executing it, and in what way?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has always stressed that the quality of higher education is one of the priorities and that Slovenia needs an independent agency or independent body that will look beyond this quality and give appropriate emphasis and appropriate advice on how to improve this quality. This is precisely why, in accordance with the law, our ministry sent a proposal for the establishment of a public higher education agency to the government last autumn, as provided for in this amendment to the 2004 Higher Education Act. However, as I have explained many times, this novel has not been adopted, and especially because we view this deadline as a deadline, we are immediately looking for a new solution. The new solution went in the direction of a change of law, which then proved to be not so large that it did not follow a fast procedure. And because this, as you yourself said, is one of our systemic laws, we were looking for another solution, which was offered on its own, because the law explicitly states that until the creation of a world for the evaluation of higher education, a national commission for the quality of higher education performs its tasks. And the National Commission for the Quality of Higher Education in Slovenia is currently the only body with long experience in this area, almost ten years ago, and it has already prepared criteria for monitoring, identifying and ensuring the quality of higher education institutions in 2004 as it is in line with the guidelines and standards we need in the European space. We have this body, this body can work. With the representatives of this body, we have talked, and the only thing that is, is that this body is now still performing these duties. In the meantime, we have also received permission from the government for three new employees, it is said, to agree to the employment of three new people who will support this body. The fact is that while they are doing so - and there is no obstacle to not - we have the means to do so - and we are looking for a new solution, which is in the amendment of the law on higher education, science and technology, and with this law we will resolve it. So much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	In your answer to my first question, you said that this Council for the Evaluation of Higher Education, which is supposed to be replaced by the Commission that is still in operation, is actually replacing the Agency, which I think is absurd 'per se' because the agency is the one that should be setting up the evaluation council. So it's kind of a bypass. I'm curious because you've been talking about how high the costs for the operation of an agency, which would be an independent body, an independent institution, independent of the Ministry, and independent of all three or later, when you set up a fourth university, of four universities. How do you imagine that you will have so much savings that three employees will now, if we understand correctly, be employed by the Ministry of Higher Education and all those teams who will have to carry out the external evaluation of higher schools, how these people will work. Will there be volunteers? Will they work for free? Already three of the salaries of such top experts represent close to 30 million tolars, according to my modest estimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Maybe it's a misunderstanding. I didn't exactly explain it. These three people at the Ministry are technical administrative support and are not experts. For these, as it would have been in the Agency, because the agency would have, say, 10 to 15 people for all actual evaluations, they are always managed by design, and so it is provided in the budget money for evaluation itself, so for those experts, let's say current members who make up the national commission for the quality of higher education. In fact, this money has been secured. The problem was not as much a resource as it may have been overemphasized, but the problem was employment in the state administration. There was a problem here, and the agency is also part of the state administration. And that's why it's happening. We're not talking about costs. The costs for these people are, say, factor 3, lower than actually all the costs for evaluation and so on. But the fact is, we want to establish this agency. We've provided resources for work, for actual evaluation. Now it is only for us to save this transitional time during the establishment of a body that will correspond to the fact that it is independent and that this commission can become. That's what we've also suggested, the rectors have agreed to become, so it turns out, because there's definitely an agency required by law. But Europe does not require that. Europe requires any body. It is up to us to put the matter on both tracks, to make economic sense and to ensure quality. And that's why I'm asking for a little more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It is also up to Dr. Gaber to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! Allow me to continue with my question in part here, where we have stopped and ask you a very simple question: Are you planning to establish an evaluation and quality assurance agency in Slovenia in the future or not? They're expecting her. This is again, otherwise, as you have explained to us here before, both the rector and the rector of the Slovenian University have claimed. The student organization is expecting her, and the law obliges you to do so. I want a simple and clear answer. Are we going to get to the agency? This agency, if you read the law, is expected to perform three important functions that would allow Slovenia not to lead its education with its lights out through the tunnel, using somewhere between 80 and 90 billion tolars in this area. This agency is supposed to prepare professional bases for the work of the higher education council, prepare professional bases for the development of higher education in Slovenia and support the operation of the entire evaluation system in Slovenia. You, Sir, have signed quite a few commitments in Bergen that are going this way. And they're aware of that in the international public. They are also aware that Slovenia does not do what it has promised. That's the first question I've asked you. The second question, which in some way relates to the concept of the development of higher education in Slovenia, goes in the direction of the title law. We here in Parliament on the Committee have already done a hearing that would fill at least that gap if the law were adopted, which is very obvious. We already have students and students studying on Bologna programs. But we don't have the addresses they'll get when they finish their studies. I ask you: When are you going to move forward with this law as a coalition? I expect it to be soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. With regard to the law on titles and titles, professional and scientific titles, the answer is, of course, clear. We have sent this law through the government to Parliament. The proposal was sent through the Government on 29 September. It was published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly on 21 October. The law was discussed at a meeting of the Higher Education Committee on 1.12. And then there were various amendments. These were not accepted. Then, on 6.12., a proposal for a law on professional and scientific titles was completed and on 14.12., on a proposal from some groups, it was withdrawn from the procedure. The Ministry has done its duty, it is said, now it is on the legislative branch to take the process forward. The fact is that we at the Ministry support this law, we know that it is necessary and necessary and we support it. I also spoke to the president of the National Assembly, who promised to discuss this. So much for that. As far as your questions about the agency are concerned. I have said that the agency, as a form, is not necessarily required as far as Europe is concerned. We want to have a body that matches the role played by the agency in Europe. This is the quality control and evaluation of the higher education study. This form is, as I said earlier, in what is represented by the current law, we want to make a transitional form because this year we are changing the whole system law for higher education research and we want to transform this form because we think that such a big deal is too big for Slovenia. We know a few countries don't have that either. I think it is more important for the quality of higher education than for the performance itself, the evaluation itself and the culture of these people, or the awareness of the university, that they are doing quality programs, than for example an agency that is working on them. For our schools to be of good quality, of course, they have to take care of colleges, not some police over them. So much for that. However, of course, I am fully aware that such an organ is necessary, essential, because in spite of all that they must receive an input signal or a feedback loop, what happens when they make certain proposals. We think it's urgent. We in our ministry, of course, are trying to get this into those frameworks that have been given as soon as possible, and we hope that this will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Dear fellow Minister! Let me specifically ask you again: Why are we actually moving around the title law? It's the coalition that stopped him. You probably don't explain to me here that you, as the minister responsible for this area, have no say in the coalition and that you are strong for marriage and would accept it immediately, but your government is against it. I don't believe you're explaining this to me. If that is not the case, then I expect that a situation that is very delicate for those who study and do not know what degree they will eventually get in hand will be resolved as quickly as possible. In doing so, I would like to ask that, if possible, the Parliament also learn how to negotiate the qualifications framework in this country, which is also supposed to be harmonised in Europe. You need this to prepare a law in the other part that is harder, where you will try to compare existing addresses with new addresses. I ask you: Do you already have this group that does this, or is it partnered? Or are we going to read again in the papers that no one was involved in preparing this, that one day we're going to get what we got on the table? But as for the agencies, I have a feeling that you're explaining to me that actually Virant's statistics are about how many employees you have in the state administration, the only reason why you don't, because you don't have money for it, we both know that you need such an agency for all three reasons that I've talked about before. You'll also spend money, only Virant's statistics will be nicer. I don't know, maybe it would suggest that this government would wonder a little less about what it looks like every morning, but more about what it's done for the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Minister, Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. As far as the law is concerned. The government has supported this law, and the government has supported it, as it was, and has given it to the National Assembly. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, he hasn't come forward yet. I must say that as a representative of the executive branch, I would not be involved here in this matter, because, as far as I know, these two branches are separate and I would not comment on any decision taken by the national assembly, because I do not think it is appropriate for ministers to do so. However, as far as your second guess is concerned, it is quite close to the actual situation as it is, but we are doing our best to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. It is the turn of Mr Zagorac to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! At the third regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 21 March 2005, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the competent ministry, then rejected our proposal by reasoning that by the end of March 2005, they would have prepared an integrated system law in this area. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: Why do we not yet have this comprehensive law, why is it not yet in the parliamentary procedure, even though we know that it will be around a year after you promised it will be? I posed a similar question on 18 May 2005, to which you replied that you were preparing a comprehensive law, a comprehensive law governing veterinary matters. In fact, in October we adopted a law on veterinary compliance criteria, which far from regulates what we proposed in the Slovenian National Party, and far from includes what you promised us when you rejected this law; this is to take into account the facts enshrined in the law we have drawn up in the Slovenian National Party. The purpose of the law, our law, which was introduced at the time, was mainly to liberalise veterinary services through a new definition of the scope of the public veterinary service and, inter alia, to implement the principle of the pet veterinarian, without restrictions on the exercise of veterinary activities, except for restrictions which would be provided for in the law and which were not defined as a public veterinary service. That is why I must say, in so far as you will answer me, that the government has drawn up an integrated law by drafting a law on veterinary compliance in October, and I must say that, with such a response, not me and probably my fellow Members in this National Assembly will not be satisfied because we know what it brings or what it regulates in October, and we know what the law we have drawn up in the Slovenian National Party has regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you for that question. Although you have warned me not to tell about the law we have adopted, I will repeat that at the 9th regular session of the National Assembly, at its 9th regular session, the Law on Veterinary Criteria of Compliance was adopted with which the entire veterinary field is regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus in Slovenia we now have two laws regulating the veterinary field. The first is the one we've already mentioned. It brings to the Slovenian legal order veterinary rules of the European Community. The law - just for a moment to repeat, but only for a short time - determines the organisation of the veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia. Part of the provisions of the Veterinary Act relating to health certificates and concessions, as required by your law at the time, is repealed by the law on veterinary compliance criteria. With regard to the liberalisation of the concessions requested, I must clarify that the owner may call any veterinarian in the country for the treatment of animals, and the services paid by the State shall be provided on the basis of the concessions awarded and signed, valid for a 10-year period. Your request was also made after voluntary membership in the Veterinary Chamber, if I recall correctly. I have to explain here that membership in the Chamber is not necessary. However, the Chamber requires that all those field veterinarians wishing to obtain a licence be paid for a chamber contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for telling me what we probably all know here. So, the purpose of one marriage is the purpose of another marriage you've now given me as an answer. As an additional question then try to explain to me the following: when considering the law on veterinary compliance criteria at the meeting of the committee, your then secretary, I think, at the Ministry of Agriculture, said: "This law is totally without prejudice to the organisation of the veterinary service and the veterinary chamber in the Republic of Slovenia. And that veterinary law that we have known since May 2001 remains in force." Indeed, this 2001 law is the law that we in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group wanted to change and want to make it more liberal. Your answer to my question in May also on the law on veterinary compliance criteria: "The proposed law deletes in the transitional and final provisions the content of the veterinary law relating to the powers of VURS. The rest of the Veterinary Act shall remain in force." I ask you: Why has the government, as promised to this Parliament and to the entire Slovenian public at one of the meetings of the National Assembly, not yet prepared an integrated veterinary law as promised?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	I guess I was unclear. I must say, the Veterinary Act provides for the organisation of the veterinary service. Everything else has been repealed in the transitional provisions of the basic law. And in this way, the law, as adopted by the National Assembly in October, is a fully regulated veterinary field.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Secondly, I would ask you, Madam Minister, to wait for me to give you my word. If not, it's the magnetogram. Thank you very much. It is Mr Kangler who will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister of Health! In November, I asked you a written question regarding the purchase of operating tables at the Clinical Center. With your answer prepared by your faithful advisers, I was not satisfied, so in January I asked you again, in writing. According to some of the letters I receive by mail, no more e-mails, so I decided to ask you an oral question about the purchase of equipment at the Clinical Center. I am interested in: How many contracts for the purchase of equipment and other materials, and for what amount does the Clinical Center Ljubljana conclude a business without a public contract in 2005? At the same time, I ask you: Why was a contract signed by the Ljubljana Clinic Centre for the purchase of dialysis material in 2005 without a public contract, Leonište amounting to 179 million 926 thousand 388 SIT 77 pairs. Although in Slovenia, as far as I am aware, there are four such tenderers who are able to apply for a public invitation to tender which are able to deliver to the Clinical Centre at any time at any given day, regardless of weather or other circumstances, and only one person has been invited to negotiate. It is said that lobbyists and third-rate bureaucrats, as I call them, still run business, both at the Ministry and at the Clinical Center. And regardless of whether the government is changing, whether the director is changing, or whether we get a new hospital or any other facility, these lobbies are moving on and moving on. Therefore, I ask you: On what basis and on what basis were these transactions performed in 2005 at the Clinical Centre, Ljubljana? Ter: Why did the Director sign that contract?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Brucan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much for that question. Dear Mr. Vice President, nice to meet you. First, you asked two questions. The first question is regarding the purchase of equipment and other materials for 2005. I must say that all purchases of equipment at the Ljubljana Clinical Centre in the past year were made in accordance with the Public Procurement Act following the agreed timetable. The Ministry of Health has carried out procurement procedures for the Clinical Centre of 50 million tolars, which have already been fully completed. However, following the procurement procedures for equipment, the clinical centre has conducted several invitations to tender of 1.29 billion tolars, which have already been completed in most cases, including the signing of the contract. Smaller-scale procurement of equipment has been subject to low-value procurement procedures for goods. The clinical centre is the largest health institution in Slovenia, which requires more articles in the field of consumer materials, medical devices, instruments and so on to carry out its activities. For all of these needs, it is incumbent upon the Public Procurement Act to carry out the procedures required by both content, scope and value. When preparing tendering conditions, the so-called technical specifications present very difficult and difficult work. The value of such purchases that were made at the Clinical Center after the contracts concluded last year amounted to 3.33 billion tolars. Due to the high volume and value of these purchases, the Clinical Centre was the main initiator in 2003 for the so-called general public procurement of materials, which then continued in 2004 and 2005, when we finished with 12 items. In the phase of conclusion of this order, there is also dialysis consumption material, dental material and medicines for the Ljubljana Clinical Center. Some of the items in this joint procurement project resulted in significant time-series for the review of individual tenderers and therefore the daily needs of these articles were provided under other procurement procedures, under low-value public contracts and so on. As regards the complexity of patients with regard to the condition of the number of hospitalised patients, unforeseen emergencies, worsening of the disease and so on, when it is necessary to ensure more items or articles that are not in stock and present a situation where it is necessary to supply them as soon as possible, it is worth mentioning that 16,629 different articles were purchased last year, where it was not possible for all to prepare them on good professional criteria of justified standards. As regards the second part of the issue, I must say that the Clinical Centre in April 2004 has delegated the mandate to carry out a public procurement order also for dialysis material at the Ministry of Health as an authorised contracting authority. Since the Ljubljana Clinical Center provides the most demanding and most difficult patients in this area, it was not possible to reconcile these professional criteria with the criteria of the hospital at secondary level, so the Ministry of Health’s mandate was revoked. This is how the clinical center announced its invitation to tender. The procedure for the procurement of dialysis material for the Leonište Dialysis Centre has been carried out in accordance with Article 20, paragraph 4, of the Public Procurement Act, as it was not possible to carry out public procurement under other procedures under the circumstances. On this basis, a contract was concluded and the invitation to tender for the care of dialysis patients at home was not completed. There's a repeat of him. The call for the purchase of material for the Zaloška road dialysis centre will be published in accordance with the deadline for this year's first quarter. I have only a few words to say about the fact that nothing was done in connection with public procurement in the second half of last year at the Clinical Centre. I think that things in the Clinical Center, including procurement, are normalising as many calls as possible and that the Clinical Center has done everything possible with new leadership to get through these problems as soon as possible. However, most of these problems are due to some of the procedures already initiated in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Dear Minister, with all due respect to you, you blindly believe those who have prepared this answer for you. Some people don't believe my e-mail anymore, but they believe regular mail and they send me contracts like that. And here's a contract that the Clinical Center concluded in 2005 without a public contract for 179 million tolars of procurement, buying dialysis material. That's why I'm asking you further. Prior to that, the Ministry of Health issued a central invitation to tender for the procurement of dialysis material throughout Slovenia for all other hospitals in Slovenia and not for the Clinical Center. Does this not seem reasonable to you, however, that the Ministry of Health is issuing a public contract for all Slovenian hospitals and that one of your advisors has to make a contract without a contract in the Official Journal for 179 million tolars? I don't think that's a good idea. The hospital in Maribor in Murski Sobota is not a second-class hospital to the Clinical Center. Under the conditions for the supply of equipment and the purchase of dialysis material, which has been handled centrally by the Ministry through a call for tender, the Clinical Centre should also be involved. I'm asking, why wasn't the Clinical Center involved?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	I have mainly answered this question in the first part. In fact, it is especially, according to some criteria, which are of a very high professional level, for the most difficult patients in this area and therefore the Clinical Center provides these most difficult patients. And that's why the Ministry of Health revoked that mandate I was talking about. I must say that with regard to these central public calls, I would like again to point out that we are currently preparing a state-of-the-art review at the level of central calls for proposals for the whole country. Some of the procedures that have been carried out in the past with regard to central tenders have been considered mainly in terms of saving, reducing prices and so on. In this regard, I would like to say that there is currently an overview of the situation and at the same time a survey of all those involved in these central calls, both by the tenderers and by the contracting authorities and also by those who have also ordered the equipment and medicines. I think that in about a month and a half, we will actually be able to fully review this situation and then also decide on further procedures that will lead to the eventual continuation of the current mode of work or to any changes in this area. Now, of course, a direct question about why the Clinical Center ordered this dialysis material in such a way, I could answer myself with an answer, which I also received from the professional services. This is on the basis of the special high-specific material needed by these most demanding patients who are being treated for dialysis in the Clinical Center, especially in Leonist. For the second part of the answer, however, I responded by saying that some of the procedures were still under way and the call for the purchase of material for the dialysis centre in Zaloška will be published in accordance with the deadline for this year's first quarter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport. Please, if Minister Bručan can turn off the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister! Since the beginning of your mandate, on various occasions you promise to conclude a contract almost immediately, a lease agreement between the Republic of Slovenia as the owner of the majority infrastructure at the Maribor airport and airport operators, an economic company Aerodrome Maribor. Together with the Prime Minister, on their visit to Maribor or Styria in May 2005, they announced that this contract would be concluded in autumn 2005. The conclusion of the contract has not yet been concluded and we would therefore expect the Ministry of Transport to present to the public the reasons which have for more than four years prevented the conclusion of a contract between the two actors at the Maribor airport. Dear Minister! I am not asking this question for any lobbying reasons or biased, but because of the simple fact that the regime of relations between the State and the Maribor Airport is the first condition for the further revival of the Maribor airport. Air carriers showing an interest in establishing new links to the Maribor airport as an important condition lay down a proper regime of relations between the State and Maribor Airport. The importance of further reviving the Maribor airport, which will bring many new business opportunities, is also aware of the economy of North-East Slovenia, especially the tourism sector. For example, due to high expectations, an economic interest association has already been set up to take care of an integrated offer for all incoming tourists. I firmly believe that the state must do its utmost to settle the relationship with Maribor Airport immediately and to speed up the modernisation of the infrastructure airport. Moreover, the government should support initiatives such as the Growth Association with the instruments it has at its disposal. I therefore ask you, Minister, the following questions: How big are the differences between the government and Maribor Airport regarding the content of the contract on the Maribor airport? Please present the amounts, rents required by the Government and the amount of rent that it is willing to pay to Maribor Airport. I also ask you to present the other essential elements of the contract in which both sides differ. Another time. Why does the government not agree to a rent that would increase or depend on traffic growth and in line with the development of the airport and insist on a flat-rate amount - if it insists? Third time. Are negotiations between the government and Maribor Airport taking place at this time? What form of contract are these negotiations in? And the fourth time. What does the government intend to do to regulate the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Maribor Airport as soon as possible? Can you possibly tell when the contract will finally be harmonised? Thank you for the answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President, thank you for the question. First, I would answer - several sets of questions are or a few questions, but in the first part I would answer that I am currently with Maribor Airport, d.o.o. we are only departing at the point of rent. The amount of the proposed rent amounts to 83 million 316 thousand 118.22 tolars per year and consists of a proportional share of the estimated depreciation for 2004 and a proportionate share for renting part of the building land, 1/35 market value per year. It is expected to be paid by 1 July of the previous year. Maribor Airport, d.o.o. Wants to pay the rent in proportion to the income, which for the first three years would not pay anything, the next five years the rent is expected to increase to 3% of the passenger's fee, as of 2014, the rent is expected to increase to 4% of the passenger's fee. This means that Maribor Airport, d.o.o. Until 2008, I would have paid nothing to the State and in 2009 to 2013, I would have paid between 7 million and 14 million sitt per year, and after 2014, I would have paid 38 million sitts per year for 400,000 passengers brought in. In doing so, I must point out that with this Treaty the Republic of Slovenia takes over all the investment maintenance costs, the Maribor Airport, d.o.o. However, only the costs of regular maintenance relating to the extension of the airport and major renovations are foreseen for the conclusion of a specific contract under the principle of public-private partnership. On the second question: "Why does the government not agree to rent that would increase or be dependent on traffic growth and in line with the development of the airport and insist on flat-rate rent?" The main problem with renting is that the method of public offering was not used for renting, Maribor Airport, d.o.o. However, the company is privately owned and the owner is Prevent, d.d. In the case of a concession contract, it could be arranged to pay rents by depending on the volume of traffic or the proportion of revenues from the services sold, but Aerodrome Maribor, d.o.o. in the discussions so far, he has not agreed to a solution which would impose other obligations on him. In view of the fact that the rules require the fixing of the rent, free rent would in fact mean - in a round of words - hidden state aid. With Maribor Airport, d.o.o. While discussions have also taken place on this issue, State aid would have been granted at a time when there is no real traffic, it would have been ineffective. The aid can be single and time-limited, but cannot be established in the manner proposed by the Maribor Airport, d.o.o. The third question was - "Are there negotiations between the Government and Maribor Airport, d.o.o. And in what form is the treaty being negotiated?" Discussions with this company continue at the level of Director of Maribor Airport, d.o.o. and the Director-General of the Aviation Directorate. The last one was on Wednesday, 25th of this month. Currently, virtually all the questions have been resolved, only the amount of the rent remains open. At this meeting it was also agreed, in principle, that the Maribor Airport, d.o.o. has also adopted a solution in the form of a concession contract. The fourth question was: "What does the government intend to do to regulate the situation between the Republic of Slovenia and Maribor Airport, d.o.o. And when will this covenant be concluded?" Since the operation of Maribor airport is obviously not possible under market conditions, we will also examine the professional justification and the legal framework, i.e. the concessional act for the operation of the airport under the conditions of the economic public service, i.e. by concession, which is also provided for in Article 158 of the Aviation Act. If a decision is taken on the concession, a concession act or concession contract can be drawn up in an extremely short time, since virtually all the elements for the preparation of the act and contracts are already in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. If I understand correctly, therefore, the issue of the Maribor airport is somehow caught in the entrepreneurial interest of one side and, in my opinion, a somewhat overly bureaucratic procedure on the other side of the Ministry. Whether there is a way and the possibility that due to broader interests - it is a matter of developing the whole area - in this case, the government as a whole does not intervene, or even the Prime Minister, to talk not to the director of this airport, who is obviously a negotiator who is not credible, at least in my opinion, but should be the owner of the airport, and this is Prevention, which is largely dependent on the State in a number of other respects. So, have you thought about bringing these negotiations to the level of the Prime Minister? I think it's the only solution to come up with a positive solution. Concessions, at least in my opinion, you won't have the same partner for as long as you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much for the additional question or more initiative. On this occasion, I would like to say that we are in some way thinking about all possible ways that would lead to the final agreement or conclusion of a contractual relationship between the State and that society. However, I must say that the management of Aerodrome Maribor has served various receptions and methods, from graves, insults and similar ones, which have not led towards a positive resolution. However, we had great will in the ministry, and we still have it to overcome this problem. In any case, as I said, there is this second path that we will study as soon as possible. And if it is possible to carry out this procedure from a legal point of view, then this form is, in my opinion, only acceptable. In any case, however, a country which has a great deal of hearing to find some balanced relationship between the State and this society, so that this company can live and give its potential to develop the Maribor Airport, has a great deal of attention. Nevertheless, we have also had discussions with the owner of this company, who wants this relationship to be clarified at legal level and a balanced relationship to be found. But when we get to the concrete talks with the Airdrome leadership d.o.o. Maribor, then the story usually ends. I would therefore say, on this occasion, that in any case it is a topic that will reach the Prime Minister's table with a concrete solution, either in one way or in another. In any case, however, the state cannot give up the blackmail that we feel in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It's Ma'am Mag. Majda Potrat, who will question the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The reason for the issue raised by the Minister for Education and Sport is the union protest and the reason for it is the district which was sent on 11 January to all primary schools, primary schools with an adapted programme, a special needs education institution, music and secondary schools and a student home. It talks about employment in 2006 and 2007 and is motivated by the Government's decision to reduce public spending by at least a percentage in 2006 and 2007. Dear Mr Minister, it is indeed austerity lately, saving the most common word we hear from the mouth of government representatives, but sometimes it seems to me that it is a giant who has grasped something with his hands, and with his feet he has wandered. What's this all about? Indeed, Article 124 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education states that it is possible to increase the learning and work obligation, but it can write what can be seen as an extraordinary measure. With the circular, however, an extraordinary measure has become a general, system-wide mandatory instruction which is transmitted to the Director, who is given this right under Article 124 to increase or reduce the obligation of the individual teacher, to the Minister. And that's what I see the problem. This is another case in which the director's authority is transferred to the minister, despite the promised measures to deregulation the school area, which is supposed to give the school area greater autonomy. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I ask you: On what legal and professional grounds do you base the circle with which you limit the employment of teachers in all the institutions mentioned above, which I have discussed earlier with regard to your district? It seems strange to me, however, that in one of your public statements you have also said that, according to the International Monetary Fund, the number of teachers employed to the number of students in our schools is too large. So I also ask you: What good and bad effects do you expect from this circle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for asking. The reasons for the circle you were talking about, which is the reason for your question, could be divided into different types. It's not just a desire or a government plan to maximize unnecessary public costs and thus burden the country, it's not just a desire to do more economically with this country, but a need to learn about the growing number of children in school. The fact is that we have 669 children in primary school this year, that we had 172,000 children last year, and that the number of children continues to decline. So in one year, there is quite a decline in primary education participants, and at the same time, since May last year, we have hired an additional 400 teachers. Even earlier, the employment rate grew even faster. Last spring, or at the beginning of the year, we were only trying to warn public institutions that, however, the number of student movements, the demographic deficit that is known dramatically in school, should also be taken into account, but these appeals and calls did not go well. What we have now decided is based on a legal basis. You're wrong to say I don't have that authority. The laws, exactly the ZOFI to which you refer, but not only Article 124, but also Article 109 and others give the minister this authority and no one else. It is true, however, that the practice has been in recent times when institutions or principals themselves have called for jobs and then have also been employed. We have seen these scissors happen, the number of students has fallen, the number of school staff has increased, without any control and attempts to systematically infect this process, to which the International Monetary Fund has also warned, I accidentally took the report with me and I have it here, which proposes even more drastic measures than this one you are talking about. This is just, I can say, one of the gentler attempts to curb the growth of the number of employees in primary school. We don't want technological surpluses. That is why we wanted to point out that the principals must adhere to the letters of the law when they are employed, alert or lean solely on the natural outflow and on some internal reserves that certainly exist in or around these institutions. It is not some drastic action, but it is also available, but at this moment, with some slight upheaval in the number of employees in primary school, they could avoid all other forms, which also exist as a legal option. Let us consider a specific case. Let's say that a teacher in a school office needs 45 hours to perform the course, say, in Slovenian. Every teacher has a 19-hour job, it's 38 hours. For that difference, a teacher may hire an additional one, what has happened now in practice, or redistribute it, thus having the possibility of an additional 5 hours increase in the work obligation of an individual teacher, and covering this deficit with internal reserves. If we allowed this opportunity to work as before, without the Ministry's consent, the number of employees would continue to increase. You asked about the effects. We can find that this month we received a table of 160 motions for consent, while in December we received four times and before, which means less. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that this circle has already worked in some way and that the management of the establishments behaves much more rationally in this district.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Your time is up. Thank you. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you for what you told me. I know the 109th section of the law and what the principal has to do. But, look, in your district it says that there is a substitution - and I'm talking about this, not new jobs that would be newly set up - it says that due to longer hospital leave, maternity leave and childcare leave, and child protection, study leave and leave due to unpaid leave should be asked for consent. All that is stated in this district, and it begins with economic activity and effects, and is written down, is not entirely in line with the position of some other ministers, such as the Minister for Labour, who recently said that the problem of the unemployed will be solved in such a way that the unemployed will be employed in the jobs of those who go to maternity care. I just gave you one case. That the school's field is feminized, and we know it. What I'm thinking about here and why I asked you after the effects is another story. This is because those who understand school as a business talk about efficiency, economy and economy. You, too, Mr. Secretary. On the contrary, I set quality and set justice. And here begins the story that Social Democrats give priority to, namely, a quality public school. And you are always stressing how competition should also be encouraged through the privatisation of the school field. And when I link this to the issue of abolishing the teaching of the Netherlands, there are several signs that the quality of the school is not exactly the first interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Look, I'm gonna try and point this out one more time. Slovenia has the most favourable or least favourable experience between the OECD countries and the European Union, as you would like - you who care about quality will probably say the most favourable - ratio of the number of pupils to the teacher. That's under ten, we're even close to eight. Count, 18,000 and some teachers to 167,000 students, and you'll get this relationship. A few decades ago, this relationship, as you know, was 35 per teacher. We also need to create a sustainable system for future generations - this is our key objective. This division that you are for quality and that they are right-wing or conservatives only for effect and to view school as a business is, of course, a surviving dilemma. This ideological form and divisiveness was characteristic of the 1970s and 1980s. Today, the school system, as well as school practices, is standardised. And when we meet at European ministerial meetings, you practically don't know who's left, who's right, who's left-handed, who's right-handed, but more or less we're trying to form a common rational, effective and quality school policy. There are no such simple divisions as you have afforded, in the school system or in the modern school paradigm. Once again, I would like to stress that everything we wanted with this district is a common goal to maintain the quality of education, perhaps to improve it, but by making this system sustainable for future generations. It is not right for Slovenia, which is already close to Norway, to give the most for education, to raise this percentage, and the results are not what they would like. This report, mentioned by you, of the International Monetary Fund, also says that the quality of the school system does not depend solely on the student-teacher ratio and that a low ratio is not a guarantee for the quality of the school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Christmas will be asked by Mr Marko Pavlih. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Unfortunately, even today we cannot avoid at least one issue in the area of unfortunate toll stations. I was encouraged by your statement on the recent Transport Committee when we discussed the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2006 and when colleague Zalokar Orazmova discussed toll stations. On the basis of your statement, it has become clear to me that you are obviously deciding to build the following three toll stations either on the basis of discretion or on the basis of political criteria and that you do not respect the decision of our national assembly and, last but not least, the interest of taxpayers. As you well know, this national assembly with at least three annual plans and with a resolution on the construction of motorways has determined the construction of five toll stations: Krtina, Lukovica, Vodice, Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica. My question is very simple. Two of them are built. When will those in Vogreska, Ivančna Gorica and Vodice be built? I am also interested in the fact that if you have decided not to build them: On the basis of what arguments is this decision taken, and when will the government take note of the national assembly which has decided not to do so? I also wonder: On what basis do you give up a few billion possible profits that these additional highway stations would bring? And as I recall, for several years as President of Darsa, you convinced us of the usefulness of these highways, and suddenly you changed your mind. So I ask you: Would it not suggest maintaining your credibility to actually put into the procedure of amending the resolution, modifying the annual plans and removing both built motorways already? Thus, the wolf would be full and the goat whole, or equality would be established for all people who are, of course, deserving under our constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, and to the Member of Parliament for this question. In the annual development and renewal plans of the motorway in recent years, additional toll stations have indeed been listed as those to be built on the basis of a specific study, which was even addressed by the National Assembly. At the time I was Prime Minister of Dars, we started all activities to start building the additional toll stations you mention. You know that the construction of the additional toll station Ivančna Gorica has already started, and then the previous government has made a political decision to stop the construction of additional toll stations Ivančna Gorica, Vodice, Vogrsko in the pre-election period. Why the former government made such a decision, perhaps one of the former governments could explain. In the new circumstances in 2006, the economic viability of the construction of the remaining additional toll stations by the end of 2006 may be questioned, assuming that we will have free electronic tolls at the end of 2008 due to a short period of operation. Therefore, it is not about any political bartering of this government or of me personally, but rather about the removal of political bartering from the past period. The construction of additional toll stations Lukovica and Krtina is, as you know, Mr Pavliha, a second story, because the construction was unlawfully stopped by a domestic inspector who probably knew the regulations poorly. These two toll stations were completed only after the decision of the environmental household inspector was lifted and the construction was completed because there was already so much money invested in the layout that it would be unreasonably and economically unjustifiable for the construction not to be completed. How beneficial these two stations are is the fact that the net impact of these two toll stations in September, October and November amounts to more than 200 million tolars. There were so many tolls collected at the main toll station of the Compola and at both toll stations in only three months of operation, September, October and November 2005. We can rightly expect that forecasts and studies of the eligibility of the construction of these two toll stations will be carried out and that the net impact of their installation will be at least 800 million tolars per year. This information clearly shows the negative consequences of the motorway project when the previous enforcement authority decided to stop or freeze the construction of three additional toll stations during the pre-election period. Moreover, in 1995 the so-called closed toll system was abolished and the so-called open toll system was introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I thank you and Mr. Pedji Ashanin very much for this answer. This is obviously just one more proof that the ministry is not being run by you, but Dars and, of course, I'm asking you here: What are you going to do to finally get this ministry into your hands? I also have a feeling that, like your boss, Prime Minister Janša, with optimism of the past. Let me remind you kindly that the LDS, the Ministry of Transport, led, say and write, only five months if we take full authority into account. The rest of the time, and for about 15 years, this ministry was run by either your client or two additional parties who are now in the coalition. And no one at the time when the LDS led this area has been able to afford a statement, I quote on the committee "...that the remaining three toll stations are not meaningful to upgrade or build at all, because the procedures are indeed in the phase of the project documents..." and so on, "and we will not suggest that the additional three toll stations be upgraded." [[End of quote.]] So I ask you again, Minister, to answer me clearly and loudly: Will these three additional toll stations be built or not? And a further question: If they are not built, will you, in order to establish the principle of equality and equivalence of all citizens and citizens, undermine the existing two, because that is the only way that everyone will be satisfied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much for the opportunity for further clarification. I would only reply to Mr Pavlich that if this is the assessment of Mr Pavliha, who in the past also led the transport ministry for a few months, who is in charge now, or could say that when there are no professional arguments, then we use this mode of communication. The Ministry of Transport is certainly in good hands and is headed by Minister of Transport Janez Bozič. But the question that was asked was whether the additional toll stations were yes or no. I can honestly say that the evaluation of the calculation showed that during this time - I also initially replied if you listened, next time I would ask if you would pay attention to my reply - that at the time when the toll system will be introduced, which will provide the so-called free traffic flow, it would be irrational to build additional three toll stations. The initiative you are giving - then I would suggest, Mr Pavlich, that we propose to abolish the entire toll system, if you think that the state could provide over 30 billion tolls of tolls that we use to service obligations from past leased loans and also for future ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you. Minister of Economy, Mag. Visionary, I'm going to ask you a question from Mr. Happy Friend. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In October 2004, Telekom made several comments that the break-ins on the Internet were quite regular, and large accounts followed, some of them received for a few million. He did nothing to Telekom until August of last year and then printed a special warning on the back of his accounts. Telekom also claims that users are themselves responsible for the costs incurred. I must point out that [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear President, please! Telekom also claims that users are obliged to pay these accounts themselves, although the incursions from the so-called exotic countries on either their website or their telephone connections have been recorded. That this is about stealing phone impulses, you don't have to pay particular attention. This is a crime that can be traced. Applications were also made to the post office and electronic communications agency, namely the APEC, which also claimed that they had nothing to do with this, as well as to consumer protection. There are a few hundred injured people, and they all have the same answers: pay your bills as soon as possible, for you are to blame for this. In other countries, this was also the case. If you have noticed well when T2 competition or what it has already been called, T5, since I do not know who is supposed to offer the same services, has essentially come to this market, which is supposed to have equal access under equal opportunities in accordance with European laws, Telekom was able to quickly put all the blockades on its entry and exit lines. And negotiations have begun, which are not yet concluded today. We are essentially state-level, because we know that this company is a state-owned company, we cannot protect users, we are left with no mercy, especially on analogue links, so-called digital connections via ADSL and the actual upgrade of ADSL are appropriate, protected, but here users are left to themselves. There have been such cases in neighbouring countries, so I ask you, Minister of Respect, if it does not show such good will, that the state takes over this cost and imposes on Telekom in essence immediate cooperation with users and blockade on these systems in order to prevent the invasion from the so-called third world countries and also prevent further damage. Regular daily intrusions occur, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] and, in fact, regular daily damage to a new one, although the old story has been two years. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. The question is likely to relate to the issue of automatic callers, which are installed in the user system and connected to the network of operators in other countries, thus causing the user astronomically high accounts. If I understand correctly, this is the story that was years ago. In fact, I must say that, according to the Ministry, there is a responsibility for the situation and, of course, damage on both sides, both on the users' side and on Telekom's side. Why do I think so? In my opinion, once he has noticed these things, Telekom should inform users of the potential dangers and potential for abuse. It also did not allow users, but I believe that flexible protection against unwanted calls on the international network could be possible. That's how I think things are divided. Of course, the role of the ministry and the government, when mediating these disputes between economic operators, is limited. This is a matter for companies operating in accordance with the law, and it will therefore be necessary to resolve the matter at that level in a specific case. The Member also mentioned the possibility of contracts concluded between users and Telekom without taking into account the consumer protection law. I am sure that this is the case, otherwise I have no concrete evidence that all procedures for nullity can be initiated or in the sense of repealing such contracts, unless of course they are concluded in accordance with the law. It would be difficult to answer that it is now the country which will take on compensation for the problem between economic operators or between the user and Telekom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I believe it is difficult for you to answer this question because it is not really specific. We used to have our own department for this sort of thing. Telekom is essentially responsible for providing protection, that's what you said. Of course he's bound to offer protection, but he didn't. Rather, with a small print on the contract he wrote something that was essentially "comprehensible" to the parties; and if we are talking about a majority company owned by the State, then the country must also say something here. After all, it's accounts that were over a million, not one, but hundreds. Let me just say one example, from Séžana. The bill was 950,000 sieves, 116 times it broke into a line from essentially an exotic state -- and look at it! - this account was 14 days late. They're 16 years old, and they've never been late for a single day, and this account was 16 days late. Interesting. At Telekom. The bank warned them over the shelf that they had such a large account, but nothing was ever exceeded. So it's also about the business moves of Telekom, which are so-called, I'll say, low or perhaps even according to users; we believe, useless and undesirable. So I ask you: What does the RS Postal and Electronic Communications Agency do here, this APEK, who can't find answers and who doesn't actually charge Telekom with protection today, right now, for those users who still have analogue connections? That would make sense! And of course, if the fault on Telekom is to take responsibility for those accounts that are evident in fact, that they did not arise from negligence and abuse by users. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I still have to say a little more clearly. That is, I agree with the Member that Telekom is responsible to a certain extent in this case, and that is what I have said. This is the opinion of both the Ministry and me, and I agree that, in so far as such abnormal phenomena occur, certain users grow into abnormal accounts overnight, that this is something abnormal and that they are also obliged to inform and implement appropriate safeguards. He did not do this to Telekom or did not do it in time and is certainly part of his responsibility. However, it is also part of the responsibility of the user that when he notices all these things, he also, of course, initiates appropriate procedures with Telekom or his client. This is how I attach, of course, the country can only exercise interest in Telekom through its ownership role in Telekom. However, in this particular case, it is about the relationship between the user and the contracting authority. I believe that the position I have expressed here today will also help to tackle the situation more effectively, which is certainly not caused by the fault of users, and at least part of the responsibility also lies with Telekom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. It's my colleague's turn. A Klavor who will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr. Secretary-General! You are aware that the Law on Returning Investment in the Public Telecommunications Network provides for a refund for overinvestment in order to obtain a telephone connection in cash. And what is essential is that all of the over-invested funds that the contracting authorities, natural and legal persons have invested in obtaining a telephone connection are reimbursed. In view of the fact that it has been several years since the entry into force of the law or the deadline for filing claims for the return of investments in the public telecommunications network has already expired on 6.6.2004, I ask you: When can beneficiaries, both natural persons and local communities and their legal successors, expect or expect to return too much? I refer this question to you because the undisputedly committed to returning such investments is the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent minister of this government. Since the beneficiaries of their past investments in the construction of the public telecommunications network still do not know when the state will actually start returning the funds they have invested as citizens to build the telephone network, I ask you: When will the government take the privatisation of Telekom more seriously? This is essential in order to provide the necessary funds for the recovery of investments so that the beneficiaries can also actually receive the reimbursements. The value of the reported returns on the public telecommunications network is approximately 5% of Telekom Slovenije’s market value and the necessary funds to recover investments could also be raised by the State by selling 10% of its stake in Telekom, since it would not have lost any majority or strategic position. In view of the slow implementation of the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network and in view of the unsatisfactory work of the State defence, I call on you to provide the beneficiaries or the public with information on the implementation of the procedures so far for the resolution of requests for reimbursement of investments in the public telecommunications network, namely the total number of applications submitted and the number of applications that have already been resolved. At the same time, I am interested in the reasons behind the long-term resolution of applications. However, I also ask you to provide information on the course of the procedure of concrete beneficiaries. I expect the new Slovenian government to significantly accelerate the implementation of this law and to ensure that the investment return project is implemented as soon as possible. So once again, I ask you: When, according to your predictions under this law, will the return process finally end and thus achieve the purpose or purpose of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much for that question. And I attach to the honourable Member that the issue of returning investments to the public telecommunications network was also the priority of this government and that we actually set it at the beginning of the mandate. Maybe just answer the final question. Completion is only related to the privatisation of Telekom, not in part, but in whole, because partial disposal can break some concept, which would not actually be good. Let me also mention that the privatisation groups that have been, therefore, have already provided the government with strategies and that the Privatisation Strategy of Telekom by experts is being mediated, that the government college will address it this week and that we expect a final decision and a final launch of privatisation procedures in a very short time. As long as procedures are carried out on the intended route without complications, a final payment will also be made in 2007. Now there's something about the information you've given us. It is true that since the entry into force of this Act, it has been years since the deadline for lodging applications for reimbursement has expired on 6.6.2004. It has to be said that of all the applications submitted by the State Attorney's Office to date by 32 000 932, 24 000 727 applications have been reviewed and rejected by more than 15 000 800 for different reasons than for unjustified reasons. The reasons for refusal are, inter alia, the requirements for the return of connections from non-returnable SIS contributions. There were a lot of them. It is also partly because of the lack of understanding of the relevant contract. There's less of them. There's 349. Moreover, the applicants did not complete the applications within the 60-day deadline, which is 4 000 389 and some of the applications concerned a period not covered by the refunds. These were 424. So far, only a few less than 400 settlements have been concluded. This is said to be 335 of 22.12.2005. We have found that due to some shortcomings in the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, some beneficiaries cannot reach the right. That is why it is already ready, and we have already prepared a change that is in the workforce, and we will also transmit it to short coalition members and also to the government and later to parliament for adoption. These relate to the extension of documentary evidence of investments, which will be extended from the contracts concluded to other evidence. With this we want to solve the "gro" or most of these problematic rejected claims. So I stress only that it is not a solution in part. For the first time, the problem is the law and very few positive claims resolved, so we need to change the law and re-enable more beneficiaries to positive decisions. The second is that the money is linked to the return related to the concept of the privatisation of Telekom, where partial solutions are not possible, so that only part of it can be sold because it can have a significant impact on the whole concept. We really want to solve this and this year's work programme of our ministry is one of the key points.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much, too, on my part. A colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, well-respected ministerial assembly! The companies Activa Avant, Arkada Holding and Certius Invest joined in holding Assets Invest. In doing so, they set the nominal value of a new share of one million tolars and so without mercy they raised more than 68,000 small shareholders who failed to do so, most of which were those who submitted their certificates to these companies. Thus, according to a new company, Activa Invest has only about 60 privileged new shareholders. The president of the board of directors of the new company stated in the discussion that such small shareholders are only a burden to companies. Of course, they have become a burden now, after more than ten years, when capable young entrepreneurs, such as even on a global scale, Mr Darko Hrovat, have had their certificates totalling more than 2 billion 840 million tolars. And this is so successful that they lost an additional 20% of the value of certificates in ten years. Truly a great world achievement! I hope that it is in this very fact that small shareholders will find arguments for the legal challenge of the said assembly. Mr Bajuk, as Minister of Finance, I ask you: In recent days, there have been more conflicting information regarding the tax evasion, both by the government, the tax office and some tax advisers. What is the official and final position of the Ministry of Finance on this tax? What is your opinion on the level of protection of small shareholders under existing legislation? And will your ministry in any way protect and help disappointed and defrauded small shareholders?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you so much for asking. The fact is, when we learned that in this company Activa Holding decided to withdraw, we immediately expressed our opinion, both by the Minister of Finance and the management of the tax administration. In fact, on a question you did not ask why they did it, because this company did it, this withdrawal was neither a decision by the tax administration nor by the Ministry, the answer is very simple - because they misinterpreted the law. The fact is that everything shows - and given that when a person sees the letters received by shareholders, they are supposed to refer to the fifth paragraph of Article 79 of the Income Act, which speaks of monetary allowances. In fact, this is not the case, everyone who knows Slovenian knows that this is not a bonus, but it is actually a payoff. And the interpretation by the Ministry of Finance, the professional services and so on, which was one and only, I don't know where there are some confusion, because the position was just and very clear, and I will also stress this today, is that we believe that this is based on these known data for two different cases. That is, when several old shares are merged into one new share, any surplus over the full price of the new share will be paid. And the second time that a certain amount is paid to shareholders who do not have enough old parts. The possible taxation of natural persons is treated in both cases in accordance with the Income Act and this as some kind of sale of shares, although it is not a sale and we know that there is no sale. We believe that as a cross-border date, this is the date of sale of shares, that is, the date on which this was entered in the Court Register, and this is November 10th; therefore, to take into account the provisions of last year's applicable Income Act, which expired on 31.12.2005. In that case, it is the replacement or transfer of old shares that the shareholders have traded for new ones or sold them to the Assets Investment and receive a purchase or compensation for this. In both cases, for all shares subject to sale, it is necessary to determine which shares are the subject of sale: whether or not the old, so-called certificate shares are sold, whether the shares are purchased on an unorganized market more than three years ago, or whether the shares are purchased on an unorganized market less than three years ago. In this case, it is the sale of shares or shares and in this respect the provision of possible capital gains and not some other income of the shareholder - in fact, these are not like dividends. Where the subject of the sale of the certificate shares obtained in the business property transformation process, the potential capital gains shall be exempt from the payment of the income. Forgiveness. In the case of shares purchased on the non-organized market more than three years ago, these capital gains are also exempt from income tax under the law applicable until 31.12.2005. As regards the sale of shares purchased less than three years ago, any capital gains are subject to taxation under the Income Act, which applies until 31.12.2005. So, on a progressive scale. On the basis of the above, each shareholder must determine which shares they have traded or sold, although they are not for sale. Given the large number of cases involving the sale of so-called certificate shares, there is no taxation. As regards the shares of old shares over one new share, the sale of the share or part of the share is also subject to the same rules as mentioned so far. That's whether it's a certificate share or something. So this is the position of the Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, and that is how we will do it. If we get any funds from these withdrawals, we'll give them back to people. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On the basis of these principles, as I have already said. As far as the level of protection is concerned. The level of protection is based on the entire legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we find that certain people can play our laws on the basis of very skilled counselors. And so far, there is no other way out than for shareholders to complain, namely, to initiate judicial proceedings, the executive authority in all its institutions, as far as it has, is studying how this thing would be possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Time's up, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	You're probably going to have a follow-up answer. Mrs. Orzmova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I think that at least in some sense your answers will be happy, the 68,000 played shareholders, even though you haven't given me a full answer, so since the time is up, I hope we'll take advantage of that, and so will you. My complementary question is: What is the responsibility of the Assets Invest in relation to what you have said, it is that, in fact, shareholders have misinformed that they have misinformed the KDD, which has then also forwarded payment orders or payment certificates already. I think he has to be responsible for this whole thing. So, what are these sequences to Asset Invest - these 200 small shareholders that you say or have read that they have already completed the payment tasks, there will obviously be no special problems here to receive this miscalculated tax difference back. And once again, what could your ministry do to make small shareholders more secure? At what points do you find this controversial? In view of this example, I think that one of these matters is certainly information, because information in the Official Journals, which is not actually a daily readable reading, plays out this possibility that everyone is actually informed - so it would be essential to do something at the news to make every shareholder, even a small one, informed in this way. And: In this particular case, will you also offer any legal service to shareholders in the segment of the possible challenge of the value of the share of the outflow from the company, which Mr Darko Hrvat warns us that in fact, in a whole series of other stories, this matter is the same. He even mentions the state of Telecom.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. That our small shareholders do not have sufficient legal protection is a fact. For this they have full responsibility, I would say, legislation, all those who have been involved in such legislation in one way or another. The fact is - a concrete example - that everything looks legal, it was published in one of the journals, as the law requires, regardless of whether it is a diary that may sell 8,000 copies in the best days. At the same time, they published on the websites - everything in accordance with the law. I think that attention, even as far as the National Assembly is concerned, when it addresses changes and additions to the company law in the coming weeks, is very special, and we will have to keep an eye on this. As for the specific case - I tried to finish the sentence and the time ran out - and I would also like to say that all institutions in the field of executive power have been informed and mobilized in some way. The investigation is also ongoing in all areas. However, for the sake of the investigation, I would not like to mention specific details here. In any case, we think that the time has come for us to say the end of such things in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Miran Potrč, who will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The right to a referendum and a human initiative is one of the important constitutional rights. It shall be governed by a law adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. The right to a referendum has been proposed and used many times in the past parliamentary practice, including in the previous and current mandate. There have also been many different legal uncertainties and political views regarding this right. It is undeniable, however, that so far the most decisive advocates of its unwavering enforcement have always been representatives of the current coalition parties who did not allow the constitutional provisions on it to be defined more clearly; especially when they were still in opposition. I cannot therefore understand that, almost a year after the adoption of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is seriously interfering with this institution of direct democracy, there is no interest in the coalition in regulating this issue. Does the government coalition, now in power, no longer support the referendums and think that the will of the people, expressed in elections, is enough to rule and decide with a government majority on everything and all four years? That would be unacceptable. Such a change of political origin would even be too much for the coalition. I therefore hope that my fears are not justified, but even if they are, changes to the law are necessary, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out many other provisions at issue, particularly with regard to possible abuses of the powers of the President of the National Assembly, whose decisions are without judicial protection, and should have them. How such powers can be used in a variety of ways, including abuse, we have already learned in this mandate. And that is why we expect the coalition to respect the rule of law and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, even if they may be contrary to its current interests. In view of this, Mr Minister, on 11 March 2006, as you know, the Constitutional Court's decision repealing all provisions of the Referendum and Human Initiative Act relating to the previous legislative referendum comes into force, I ask you: Why has the Government not yet drawn up a proposal for a law that would address this issue before its entry into force? Ter: Does and when does he intend to fulfill his obligation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The working text of the law or amendments and the addition of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is already in place and coalition coordination on this subject is being convened for this Wednesday at 8 a.m., so that Members or members of coalition parties have this text already in their possession. Therefore, the text is ready and as soon as we achieve harmonisation in the coalition, we will also present the law to all opposition parties and seek the necessary majority for the adoption of this law. Although the working group that prepared this law was established in the second half of May or exactly on May 17th last year in the composition of the Mag., now Dr. Janez Pogorec as leader and members of Marko Golobič, Dr. Franci Grad, mag. Bojan Trnovšek, Dr. Miro Cerar and Dr. Igor Kavčič. This group has prepared a new law on elections to the National Assembly as a priority, as electoral legislation also requires compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision and constitutional law. It is not long before I presented this novel in your parliamentary group, and that is when I announced that we will soon meet again on the subject of referendum legislation. In reality, I expect the text to be so politically coordinated that it can be addressed in February, which means that, if it is very urgent, it could be dealt with already in March or in April in reality in the National Assembly. Although the Constitutional Court has not imposed the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation in the preceding referendum segment, the Constitutional Court's decision is that these provisions cease to apply and do not require the reaction of the Government or the National Assembly to the previous referendum, so that we are not in any delay from the point of view of the Constitutional Court's decision and even after 11 March we will not be late. I must say that with the proposal that is ready, we will try to maintain the previous referendum, so on this issue we remain in the position that there is no need and it is not appropriate to lower the standard of direct democracy, so we will look for consensus, a two-thirds consensus at this point, and changes will go in the direction of rationalisation and ensuring a more serious attitude towards the Institute of the Referendum. What mechanisms and solutions we will provide, and, as we say, we will get to know you as soon as possible. It is important to know that this is a difficult issue, the expert group has been working all the time and a very difficult discussion has been initiated in the expert group itself. In addition, we have taken advantage of these amendments to the law for some other improvements, such as to comply with the constitutional law on the referendum on international links, which is not regulated, then with regard to the constitutional referendum, where Dr Kavčič, who also dealt specifically with the constitutional referendum, is also a member of the group; in this area, the text is in the direction of improving the law. We therefore expect that, even for those parties that have supported a constitutional amendment in the past mandate, the proposal to maintain the previous referendum will be approved. We are also counting on a broad consensus on instruments that would ensure greater seriousness or a more serious attitude towards the referendum and also rationalisation, i.e. reduction, saving tax money, but not on a reduced standard of direct democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your notice. I think it's right, even though you said in one part that it's not an obligation. Formally no, but it is right that you have accepted it as moral and political in the coalition, because it would be practical to agree to the conclusion that in a significant part of the law is repealed and ceases to exist, but it meant that some form of constitutional referendum is no longer in force, without any serious discussion being held. If there are proposals in this direction for certain forms of interest, rationality and similarity, I am only pleased. I hope that we will not sooner clearly replace the positions we had in the past mandate, when you have been completely uncritical of everything that has happened in relation to the referendum, but perhaps sometimes we are also critical. On this occasion, however, if I may, I would advise or give you one opinion. If you really want coordination, do not first definitively harmonise everything in the coalition and come to the opposition's parliamentary groups that no proposal, which means more or more than the coalition's co-ordinated, makes sense because the coalition will not support it. You know that you owe us, I don't read anything to you personally, but on the basis of the agreements I have to tell you about the election law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you so much for that advice. I don't think we actually have any choice, because we need a two-thirds majority for this legislation, which means we have to come to you, including your Group of Members, not only by notifying what changes are planned, but we also need votes. And it is also right that such important materials, referendums and elections - surely this is a key constitutional matter in fact - should be achieved as much as possible. As far as the attitude towards the referendum is concerned, once again, at least our proposal will go, my proposal goes in the direction exactly as I have always advocated it and, as you wish, even - at least for the Slovenian Democratic Party - I can say - advocated it. In order to maintain the previous referendum as a form of referendum, this seriousness and rationalisation should be ensured through certain mechanisms. You know, I think that even on one television show together, on national television, where I stressed, for example, that it seems appropriate for me to introduce a quorum, that is the necessary number or the required proportion of participation in the referendum, so that the referendum decision would be valid. So, once again in principle, we will offer and coordinate solutions that will maintain the previous referendum but ensure a more serious attitude towards the Institute of Referendum and rationalisation. Including, let's say, just one example - by probably the number of signatures collected to trigger the entire instrumentation of 40 thousand signatures, probably too low. Because it takes 1,000 signatures to be collected without authorization on an administrative unit in one week, I think that someone who then has to in 40 days, not more than 45 days, is said to be in five, six weeks, to collect 40,000 signatures that have to be certified before the administrative unit, will probably also collect more than a thousand signatures in one week that need not be certified. Thus, one option is to ensure, as it is said, greater seriousness, not to block that initiative and requirements which are seriously thought out and which are not aimed at setting or attaching a stick to the legislative wheel. And the Constitutional Court's decision also goes in this direction that the Constitutional Court recommends guards to prevent abuse of the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. It's mag. A joke to ask the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	Mr. Chairman! The message and the MPs! Mr. Bayuk, distinguished ministers! Mr. Bayuk, you're 13 months ago. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Minister, 13 months ago you vowed to take care of prosperity in Slovenia in your conscience and with all your might. Today, at the 13th regular session, I would like to know how you are in the case of Mutual d.z.v. or mutual insurance companies, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, shall take care of the interests of members of the Mutual Insurance Undertaking. As Minister of Finance, you are directly responsible for systemic issues relating to the development of the financial system, including the question of the development of insurance. This in Slovenia begins to offer additional health insurance products. That this is a very important profitable issue has been demonstrated by a sharp media campaign in recent months. You yourself have lived abroad for decades, and you know how it is that when it is necessary for each dental prosthesis to obtain the consent of a health insurance undertaking or as a profit under the line and non-solidarity decides whether you will be admitted to an emergency, to an operation or to an operation. Then people must sell everything to pay for the health care of themselves or their loved ones. It is not surprising that under these conditions health insurance companies, life insurance companies and the like, the richest institutions in the system in these countries are, therefore, tens of millions of people do not have a valid health insurance. This is today the situation in North America, South America and elsewhere. I wonder if "brushing up," sorry, privatisation in health is going to take us this far. On the other hand, in Europe, because of centuries of experience, in Australia, we partly maintain solidarity in Canada as a fundamental criterion for the sharing of money in the health treasury. Therefore, one of the main development issues is the further development of health insurance: Will it be mutual or will it be based on profitability? The interests protected by the Insurance Supervisory Agency are more than clear. Without a four-day extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we would not have been able to protect the interests of the insured. In this regard, I am interested in Mr Minister: What have you, as Minister of Finance, done to make the Agency look like a good, quality and independent regulator?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. This question has already arisen many times, thank God that now I also have the opportunity to answer again, because sometimes it was just that in my absence things were turning in some political light, which is always interesting when it comes to some points. Your question is, what did I do? I think we need to start very precisely. On 10 November 2005, the Mutual sent letters informing its members what their intentions were, how they pictured a change in ownership, and what was already stipulated in our legislation in the fourth chapter of the Insurance Act, which was already adopted in 2000. I took an immediate interest in myself, and I wanted to make sure that the real system worked. I've been assured by the surveillance agency that the matter is being studied very well. The fact is that, within 25 days of that date, on 5 December, AZN sent a communication to the Mutual and informed them that they were judges to include serious violations of the law in this decision and in this communication to the membership. 10 days later, because that is what this law says, and this possibility, yes, of course, the leadership of the Mutual Complained. On 15 December, it issued an order requiring the resolution of such infringements. The President of the Senate also responded to an objection by the Mutual. Complaints about the order were, of course, immediately filed. On 29 December, the Senate issued a final decision and rejected the complaint to the Regulation and also adopted a decision to remedy these serious violations, serious breaches of the law. At the same time, he introduced and initiated a procedure for the withdrawal of the licence to the President of the Administration. This thing is final now. The license was exempt as far as the surveillance agency is concerned. The appeal has already been lodged in the Supreme Court immediately, 30. In these days, the agency must respond to this; but the essence of this is as follows. In the light of the procedures adopted by this National Assembly and the law provided for in such cases by the three-step procedure, the Insurance Supervisory Agency acted as soon as possible and in fact decided so. On your first question - what did I do? I have been convinced from the outset that the system is working and that the system we have will also act on time here. In this sense, I think that duty is fully fulfilled. But I'd like to add the following. As far as the insurance law is concerned, it requires the Ministry of Finance, or it imposes only this task on it, to control or refer to the UN, to the Insurance Supervisory Agency, to propose a president or director, removal, that is to say, leadership and members of the Supervisory Board. [[...]] And he's proposing to who? But he's proposing to the government. Who's in control of the AZN? The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, including the present Members who are not present today, and the Court of Auditors. I hope that you will also exercise this responsibility and that, once and for all, instead of just saying something, we would call the responsible figures who we trusted to lead this thing, that they would explain in this national assembly their views on what they have done, but not that we always repeat one and the same media stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Allow me to complete my question, Minister. There's nothing to be upset about. You have sworn to take care of the well-being of all, that is, all members of the Mutual. My problem is that without this - and that's what your boss admitted today - without having a four-day extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, they wouldn't stop each other. I wonder what you, acting as a supervisory authority, along with the State Assembly on the Insurance Agency, have done? Because in my opinion, of course, Mr Gorišek should be on your proposal, and only you can propose this, prematurely resolved. Why? Let me tell you that on one Committee on Finance where there were no representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we said that in the 2004 report to the National Assembly he did not describe the situation in the field of insurance. Especially not in the field of health insurance, although we have already warned at the time, and then a fellow Paulich with a question from the Member State that the problems are serious. Furthermore, since AZN has allowed insurance undertakings to enter into a reservation contract contrary to the provisions of Article 117(6) and Article 83(7) of the Insurance Act, the AZN has thus allowed mutual damage to the insured for about 5 billion. It is because he has left in the Mutual Chamber the obligation to protect the insured and has not informed the law enforcement authorities of such damage. Not to mention other matters relating to labour law. The key thing is that the Director of the UN has done his work anonymously, unprofessionally, acted unlawfully because he has abandoned or otherwise has not exercised the right to be responsible for the work relationship. That's what the law says about civil servants. And he's within this law on public servants an official, working through the law on public agencies, and you're the one who could have proposed to the government for resolution. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	It is true that the Insurance Act imposes on the Minister of Finance responsibility to propose a discharge. Why didn't I suggest it? Because I do not agree with you that Mr Jurij Gorišek was acting anonymously or that he broke the law or that he did not actually make decisions in time. I am sure - and I have also convinced myself - that the AZN acted and started immediately, responded and analysed the situation immediately, as I have already said, practically within three weeks it issued a decision and informed each other and its management that serious violations of the law were included in their message or letter of membership. Of course, from there, there is a law, as it was adopted, which, as I said, provides for such procedures and deadlines as you have adopted in the National Assembly. That is why I have not proposed his release and I do not intend to propose his release. Surely, however, the National Assembly has not only the right but also the duty to examine these matters. Only the National Assembly has control of this agency. I don't agree with you here because you're always repeating and you're always wrong - now I think because you've said it for the past ten years that it's conscious. The Ministry of Finance has no control over the agency. You know she's independent, and she doesn't have that right. From now on, I hope you understand that if you don't, I will once again give you the insurance law to read once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	Procedural, Mr. Squeakle?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Procedurally. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 236, I propose that this inappropriate response of Mr Bayuk be discussed. Allow me to explain this in the time available for this. Look, Mr. Bajuk - if you calm down - it's just that [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Please! Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	In accordance with Article 259 of the Insurance Act, the discharge of the Director of the Agency is under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. What you said, Mr Finance Minister - I don't know if Mr Health Minister agrees with you - if all this were true, what you said, we wouldn't need an extraordinary session - because everything was legal because everything was legal. And the problem of reshaping the Mutual would be solved without a four-day extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Then of course I must ask you - why did you propose an extraordinary meeting? I also ask this because you are a day after the government was informed that the Agency's expert council has dismissed Mr Jaklič, you have probably proposed on his proposal to discharge Mr Miloš Time with the responsibility of a member of the Agency's professional council. Mr President, I propose that we decide tomorrow that, pursuant to Article 246, paragraph 2, we decide on the inadequate response of Minister Bajuk because I asked him what he really did as Minister of Finance to control the functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. And he says everything's fine. But we had a state of emergency and a four-day extraordinary session. I think it is right to discuss in this reply how Mr Bajuk, Mr Bručan, Mr Janša is concerned about the development of mutual insurance. It is a failure to comply with Article 62, paragraph 4, and we have even accepted an authentic explanation that the Government and the UN would be clear on what it should do. Another time. To discuss your answer, because you are responsible for systemic issues, Mr Finance Minister, the systemic issues of the development of the insurance sector within which health insurance is also obvious. And the third time. I propose that, of course, we discuss these basic principles, because without the intervention of the National Assembly, the Mutual is simply a matter of making profit under the line rather than solidarity the basis for deciding on the rights of insured persons. That is why, Mr Minister, I propose that this fundamental development issue - Mr President, tomorrow we will decide on this - is a fundamental developmental issue of maintaining justice in health to discuss this. We can do this to make [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] decide on a public debate on the non-response of the Minister of Finance. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	Wait, now I'm going to explain to the ministers who are so upset that this is a violation of the rules of procedure. In fact, under Article 246 the Member shall, in so far as he is dissatisfied with the reply of any Minister or Prime Minister, be able to request that this reply be discussed in the national assembly. Of course, the National Assembly shall decide on this in the framework of the vote and the Member proposing this shall have the right to explain it and shall have two minutes to do so. Whether it adheres to the framework of explanation or not, we are again, of course, to the original sin, where the boundary is between the explanation, where it is, of course, no longer. Mr. Sok, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I note that you, as chairman of the meeting, must also, in accordance with the rules of procedure, identify what you have just said. If the Member turns away from the original question and develops his questions further and the Minister cannot answer it, then of course you are obliged to remind every Member of this, because what Comrade Squeakle is doing is, of course, playing the rules of procedure and this is not the first time today. That's been repeated by my count for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	Mr. Squeakle, I don't think anything procedural is necessary. No, look, we're coming to a debate and a debate. I'm just-- I'm asking for peace in the hall! I have decided that this violation has not occurred and that I am the only one who is leading the meeting. Mr Bevk, who asks the question to the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries is an important bridge for cooperation and integration. Representatives of our minorities in neighbouring countries, Austria and Italy, Hungary and Croatia are not satisfied with their position and with the implementation of the treaties and laws that have been adopted and guarantee their rights. Here I am thinking mainly of the Austrian State Treaty and the implementation of Article 7 of the Treaty, especially with regard to the creation of bilingual local inscriptions in Koroška. After writing Karter Tageszaitung in Austria, we are even supposed to send SMS messages with the following content: "By opening this text message you have just killed a Korean Slovenian. Send the text forward and participate in the action pure Koroška." This framework can include Heather's request for a Koroski referendum on bilingual local inscriptions. Then there is the problem of the implementation or non-implementation of the protection law for the Slovenian minority in Italy. Non-implementation of the contract between the governments of Slovenia and Hungary by the latter and years ago from the Croatian Constitution of the decommissioned indigenous Slovenian national minority, not to mention in particular the problems by establishing the border between Slovenia and Croatia. I think that now the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenian politics have the ideal opportunity to correct the priorities of foreign policy and to strengthen their interests and interests of our smaller ones living in neighbouring countries. By the end of last year, the Republic of Slovenia had quite successfully completed the OSCE Presidency and had also begun to prepare for the Presidency of the European Union in 2008. That is why I think that now is an opportunity to divert our attention to solving the problems our minorities face in neighbouring countries. In the next two years, 2006 and 2007, this should be the priority of our foreign policy. In addition, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, in absentia today, according to the reply of Prime Minister Janez Janša to my question a year ago: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia begin the procedure for notifying the Austrian State Treaty? Ter: What will be the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy in order to reduce the rights of Slovenia's national minority in neighbouring countries? As it is said, my question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, and I expect him to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Anton Kokalj, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, the President! In view of recent events at the Leipzig and information in the media regarding the operation of inspection services at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, I would like to know: What is your assessment of the state of the inspection services and what your actions were after this event? First of all, I would like to ask you if you have thoroughly investigated the operation of the superior inspectors, so you are in charge of your construction inspections for the Ljubljana area and its surroundings and the main state construction inspectorate? I would also like to know how those responsible provide support and how they direct the work of inspectors who have to face problems on the ground? I also ask for information on which matters and how the construction inspection for Ljubljana and its surroundings has successfully solved the problems of the previous year, particularly in the area for which it is responsible. I wonder: Where are the reasons why in the recent past, a good year ago, some inspectors had to seek police protection even to stay at home, and how did their superiors act in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. I will try to answer Mr Kokal's question. First, I would like to say that before this unfortunate event in one of Ljubljana's nightclubs or disco clubs, I had this conversation with the director of the Space Inspectorate. On my request, on my proposal, I also met with the head of the Ljubljana Regional Unit and discussed some of the open issues with the Chief Republic Inspectorate. However, to your specific question, I answer the following. In the Ljubljana district unit, the work of the construction inspection has been weakened, since in the last four years of 14 construction inspectors who controlled the wider area of the city of Ljubljana, 9 of them and generally the most experienced have gone to other services. He replaces them with new ones. But any new inspector is considered to take at least two years to do all the necessary exams for his own work. These are very complex difficult exams under the provisions of the Inspection Control Act. Since this requires at least two years of experience and work with the help of quality experienced inspectors, this is an additional argument which speaks of the need to make some changes in the area of construction inspection in the Ljubljana District Unit. As a matter of interest, the construction inspector, who conducted the inspection procedure under consideration, you ask, went to another office in March. The reasons for this were different. On your question about how the Ljubljana District Unit worked in the area of construction inspectors, I can say that construction inspectors issued 278 decisions in 2005, an average of 16.35 per inspector, and we took a comparison of the Maribor District Unit, they issued 619 decisions because there are fewer, which means an average of 44 per inspector, even saying something. You're also asking me about threats and how we're trying to react. I have discussed this subject in detail with the most responsible, and I have the next answer. Construction inspectors also experience threats expressed in various forms in their work. Whenever the inspector expects resistance, insecurity, forward control, he asks the police station for assistance in the inspection. This is provided for in the General Administrative Procedure and Police Act. However, in cases where the building inspector is at risk of inspection, he does not have any police assistance, he calls 113 immediately and he comes as soon as possible. Even in the case of supervision of the construction inspection at the Lipa restaurant, the construction inspector carried out surveillance at the restaurant along with a market inspection accompanied by the police. I've acquired this information recently. Police protection or observation of the area where she lives has been accepted by the inspector on a proposal from the police on the basis of threats raised and the police's opinion on the actual potential for security threats or new threats. Are you also asking what help is there if they need it? In the framework of the inspectorate, when the inspector needs legal assistance in relation to his work, they shall provide it in good time and in good time in the office of the Chief Inspector, who is well-completed in this field. Even in the case of the supervision of construction inspectors, normally construction inspectors do not do so in an area where they live, in order to minimise the risk at home as well as family members. Another topic related to the removal of illegal construction. In the world, they solve this issue in very different ways. In neighbouring Italy, the forced removal of the facility is carried out by an army, interestingly, without the presence of a construction inspector who conducted the procedure. Thus, the debtor does not know the identity of the persons performing the execution. In 1993 a provision was introduced for the administrative enforcement of the decisions of the urban inspection by the concessionaire by amending the law on the regulation of settlements of other interventions in the premises. In order to implement this provision, there was no adequate broad support and, therefore, the enforcement inspector continues to carry out the execution by himself with the assistance of the contractor of the construction company selected on the basis of a call for tender under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. I have some additional information or information on all construction inspection procedures relating to the Lipa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u225	In particular, I would like a concentrated response to the planned measures in the Ljubljana area, as I mentioned. I'm surprised at this. As mayor, I have dealt with this inspection unit myself, by issuing a decision to extend the background to kindergarten, which we built very quickly because of our needs. The head of the district unit has "gained" that he is behind the inspector 100 per cent, regardless of the interests of the local community. I had a good feeling that this leader was probably also consistently behind the inspectors when they were acting in other cases. So I was very surprised, at least as far as I know, that leadership did not change at the time that it was not so in the case mentioned earlier. That's why I'm really interested because I think that Ljubljana and its surroundings are the most exposed part of Slovenia, if the work of inspectors goes well, it's human, according to the law, and for all cases the same, then I think it's a good model for inspection services throughout the country to start acting like inspection services. We all know that more and more powers are being placed on inspection services, but at the same time, the inspectors are very much on their own. This is of course not the only case now, I will say, your area, but it is also in some way my appeal to consider in our country how far and how serious we are with all kinds of inspection services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u227	I'm just gonna give you a quick answer. I think your appeal is in place. It has recently been important to meet at the political college of the Prime Minister, where some decisions have been taken in this area and individual competent ministers have been given certain responsibilities to move something in this area. You're opening up two themes. One is the operation of the head of the regional unit in Ljubljana. It is clear here what is the authority of his superior to handle this. But another area, and here I see my position as minister of particular importance. In view of the relatively small number of experienced construction inspectors of the Ljubljana Regional Unit, in particular with powers of supervision and action, it is our primary task to regulate this number as soon as possible in this area in accordance with the standards set out for this purpose. However, with regard to the very procedure concerning the superintendent in charge of the work of a specific inspector, I would like to say the following. The case that has taken place must not mean that there would be some kind of elemental commotion or mistrust in the work of inspectors. Just the opposite. With appropriate procedures, by law, I would say, acts and amendments to the law we must allow the Inspector to have status and validity in society and respect. It should be understood that it is difficult to be a good inspector in Slovenian society. It's a profession that's not inviting. I hear no one registers for construction inspectors in the Koper district unit and then gets a job, and someone with all the conditions is home from the mall, from the neighbouring country. This is now possible under new EU rules. They shall also not apply to certain other tenders which they have entered. It is a difficult task for us to invite competent, correct and well-educated young people who will need some time to be responsible for the role of inspection services in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We have Mrs Majdo Shirco in the first round to ask the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u229	Dear Minister! We've waited, but the atmosphere is more intimate now, as it is at dinner parties, it can be more honest. After all, we are being accompanied by no parliamentary, no other, no third TV programme, so I expect an answer, a very sincere answer to the question about the state of Kobilar Lipica. It is true that I could ask a similar question to your other colleagues who are concerned with the implementation of the law, but in accordance with the coalition agreement and the decisions of the government, the Ministry of Culture is the one who is responsible for implementing the law on Kobilina Lipica. Of course, the situation in Lipica worries me because the information provided by Dr. Miha Brejc, President of the Council of Kobilarna Lipica, and also the first man of the Lipice Golf Club, appeared in public. He announced that in 2007 the golf course in Lipica would be expanded. He says that we have an idea project, now counting or geodetic works, the implementation project is being created, says Dr. Miha Brejc in Primorski News on December 31st last year. And according to this record, the golf course is supposed to be extended from the current 9 to the 18 holes, either by shrinking surfaces or by new lands. Given that an idea project already exists, it is also likely that the answer to this or that is clear. But such a major intervention into the landscape, as Dr. Brejc states, would be possible only with location information and without a building permit or a change of law. That's a bad thing, you minister who's taking care of the implementation of this law. I ask you: Is it an intervention in the protected area of the institution of 425-year-old tradition, in the protected area of Kobilarna Lipica? Is it an intervention in the area defined by law? Whether the government will change the law to win a golf course in Lipica. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u230	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you so much for asking. I have to say, I don't know. The Ministry of Culture has no direct concern for the implementation of the law, but only coordinates the work between the ministries in order to rehabilitate Lipico. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have received the following question from the Ministry of Culture: "The media report that there has been an expansion of the golf course in Lipica. What kind of project is this? Who ordered it, who performed it, and whether it interferes with the protected area of Kobilirna Lipica?" With regard to this question or these questions, I would like to answer you as follows. This is a project called the Health Golf Course and grasslands in Kobilna Lipica. Who ordered it? In the context of a single programming document or its action 1.4, the Ministry of Education and Sport, as a proposal, intends to implement this project mainly from the European Regional Development Fund. The final beneficiary is to be the State Public Institute of Kobilirna Lipica. Who's doing it? No one has yet implemented it but will be implemented by Kobilana Lipica because the project is in preparation and has not yet been confirmed on the relevant bodies of the single programming document. Does it interfere with the protected area of Kobilar Lipice? It is expected to reach the protected area, but only within the scope of the current golf course. In the event of the implementation of this project it will be a saved golf course to the current extent. So there's no expansion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u232	Would you like some more? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thanks for the answer. If it is not enlargement, it is an intervention in the protected area of Kobilarna Lipica, it is called an intervention to arrange a golf course in the existing protected area, which would, in order to receive an answer, have more holes, say more space, or have less space. If the change also takes place within the protected area, I ask: Will the golf course spread to an account, such as pastures or that area that is now protected as a natural heritage? Can you just answer me with yes or no answer, or will the golf course remain as it is, without more of these holes, or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. In the event of realisation, the saved golf course will be in the current range, so there is no enlargement, given what is now envisaged. This means the regulation of grass surfaces, the removal of old asphalt tennis court, the transfer of exercise, the repair of two playing fields, the repair of one field, the regulation of three new playing fields by rationalising the use of surfaces only within the scope of the current playground. In the framework of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the karst landscape, new wooden fences would be repaired and restored on the golf course and in the woodwork bordering the field and the now-infested grasslands along the Bazovice road on Mehlivac. So, now, we would be clearing the grasslands for horses, so there would also be a restoration of pastures.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Mr Marko Pavlih will ask a simple question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, we were just looking at each other, I'd say, from the face to the back, and now the face. I'm interested in the following. At its August meeting last year, the Board of Pensioners Gradišče appointed Mr Silvan Gregorič as the Director of the Institute, which was the long-standing director of this institution, with all the qualifications, the European Association of Directors certificate for Home Management and the long-term experience shown by the extremely successful operation of this home. On the basis of the mandate you have under the Social Protection Act, you have decided not to give consent to his appointment. And you did not explain this agreement or rejection, which is otherwise in line with the law. Boris Koprivnikar, President of the Association of Directors, on behalf of the community of social institutions of Slovenia kindly invited you to explain your decision. In other words, if I may quote, he says: "Not knowing the reasons for not naming a longtime director at home, where irregularities, difficulties in business or relations between workers and residents have not been identified, that is, opening up opportunities for different guesses mainly in terms of recruitment on the basis of political definitions and not on the basis of expertise and experience. In addition, the applicant was elected by the board of the institution, which has no reason to make a different choice without further information. Also among fellow directors of other institutions, lack of official information creates an unpleasant climate which, in our view, adversely affects the work of directors, reduces their motivation and deters them from the substantive problems of running institutions." [[End of quote.]] That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor Minister Mag. Tiny: On the basis of what criteria have you made your decision? Have you been guided by the political affiliation of this esteemed person, or have you otherwise become attached to a seemingly simple decision that has concrete consequences for this individual and can also have serious consequences for the home? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u237	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. The conditions to be met by the Director of the Social Protection Institution are laid down in Articles 56 and 57 of the Social Protection Act. Article 56 of the Act lays down the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the Director. In paragraph 6, it reads: "If the founder of the public social security institution of the Republic of Slovenia appoints and disposes of the director of the board of the institution, with the consent of the Minister responsible for social protection, in the previous opinion of the competent authority of the local community in which the institution is established." On the basis of the power vested in that provision of law, the Minister shall either give or give no consent to a particular candidate and the law does not provide that the Minister must further explain or substantiate his consent. I can only tell you that they are not political reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Although it's not my theme, I've been taught and read the law what it says. Indeed, there is no obligation to explain, and I fear that he might even fall in the Constitutional Court because of the fact that the Constitutional Court has already repeatedly stated and ruled that, in particular, in negative decisions for reasons of legal protection, due to the appropriate choice of legal remedy, justification is necessary. However, I wonder: Would it not indicate, in subsequent decisions, at least a sentence or two to give an explanation and a clear and loud statement of reasons without being shy, if these are political reasons or any other? You have the right to state any reason. But for the fact that the world will know how to act in the future, and also the affected person who has the right to seek any further legal protection in accordance with the administrative procedure, how is it going to go, I wonder: Do you intend to continue this policy of non-intelligence, or will you change it with a good suggestion, not least today on my part, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, please. You don't want to?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u242	I explained my explanation. As a rule, let's explain everything. In this case, I've made it very clear to you. It's not political. It's the truth. This is about other reasons for which the candidate himself knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan, will be put by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First, I apologize for the late hour, but that's the way it is. Children’s kindergarten in Arkova Street, Idria, or children and employees in the building are exposed to radiant radioactivity, much less in the second kindergarten behind the castle. In 2003, we adopted a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety in the National Assembly, which provides in Article 45 that the Ministry responsible for health, through systematic review of the working and living environment, protects against increased exposure of workers and residents and directs the implementation of measures to reduce exposure. The law also stipulates that the Ministry of Health should adopt a programme for the systematic review of the working and living environment for those areas and raising public awareness of the importance of measures to reduce the presence of natural radiation sources. On my question regarding the rehabilitation of kindergarten in Idrija, which I had asked in June 2004, the Ministry of Health replied to me: "In the event that, on the basis of the programme of systematic review of the working and living environment, the received doses are found to have been exceeded in facilities designed to implement the educational, cultural, health or educational programme, the law also provides for the provision of resources to implement measures to reduce state exposure." [[the end of the clue.]] As too many doses of radion-hazardous gas radiation have been re-measured in kindergarten, I expect that the country will take care of full remediation under Article 46 of the Act. As far as I know, the Ministry of Health in the Interdepartmental Group to address this problem avoids financial obligations and the Ministry of Education is expected to contribute only 10% of the resources needed. So I ask Dr. Andre Bručan, Minister of Health: When will they begin the rehabilitation of the kindergarten in Idrija, which imposes on the country Articles 45 and 46 of the Act? Let me say that through informal channels, we have also learned that the child care project is expected to succeed in the project of the so-called Norwegian financial mechanism, which allows 60%, up to 60%, to cover such a project. This is why I am particularly interested in: how will the state provide the remaining share of the funds if we succeed with this project in the call for a Norwegian financial mechanism? Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u246	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. This is said to be a good question if it were addressed to two addresses. Although by law it is the Ministry of Health that is somehow responsible to determine those areas where radiation is across certain limits, and this has happened in this kindergarten and additional measurements have been repeated, they have proved this. It is also true that this problem with this kindergarten has been going on for quite some time. I'm not going to list all the events back now, because it would take too long. In any event, Articles 45 and 46 actually impose on the State to provide the necessary resources for the necessary changes. The Ministry of Health, in so far as it is within our competence and in accordance with the Government's partial programme of 16.1. this year, has submitted to the General Secretariat of the Government a programme of systematic review of the working and living environment, as well as public awareness of measures to reduce exposure due to the presence of natural sources of radiation. Tomorrow, 31.1., the programme will also be discussed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Committee for State Organisations and Public Affairs. In order to carry out measures in facilities intended to carry out educational or educational activities in accordance with the programme and planned budgetary resources, it shall provide the Ministry responsible for the basic activity to which the facility is intended. The Ministry of Education and Sport will provide, on the basis of the budget programmes, for a further few years and starting in 2007, for the implementation of measures in facilities designed to carry out educational or educational activities. In the opinion of the Radiation Protection Authority, the kindergarten in Idrija is one of those facilities which need to be repaired and will be listed as the first to be submitted to the Ministry of Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u248	There's something else I'd like to ask you. There's an inter-ministerial group that solves this problem. However, when I recently spoke to a representative of the Ministry of Education, I was told that the Ministry would be able to contribute only 10% of the funds for this project under the Community Financing Act, since the municipality of Idrija belongs to that group of municipalities which are entitled to 10% of the financing of projects that fall within the competence of local self-government. And here we have the law that I mentioned earlier, the ionizing radiation that the Ministry of Health will be responsible for. So I ask: How will the government as a whole solve this problem? In fact, if the Ministry of Education provides only 10% of the funds, then there will still be 40.50% of the funds to cover this whole investment, of course considering that we will succeed in the Norwegian financial mechanism. This is why it will be necessary to find these spare funds somewhere, or, under the Law on Community Financing, only 10% of the participation of the Ministry of Education will be required, and this is not enough to be able to achieve what is stated in Article 46 of the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, that there is a need for rehabilitation in educational institutions and other institutions in the field of social activities, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which are burdened by radioactive gases to be taken care of by the State for such rehabilitation. I'd like to ask for a concrete answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u249	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much for this additional question. I must say that it is very difficult for me, as Minister of Health, to now fully answer this question of yours. In part, I replied to him in the first part of the reply when I replied that the Ministry of Education and Sport would provide in its budgets in the coming years additional resources for implementing measures in facilities such as the kindergarten facility in Idrija. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, of course, I cannot provide any special resources here, because this is not the case, but it is the responsibility of the Government, and I think that if these funds are allocated and international funds are allocated, then, of course, the government will also take its share in the final form in the following budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The last one is Mr. Germich. The question is also for the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we insist. Waiting periods for heart surgery are among the most public eyed operations. Of course, heart surgery is needed for patients whose life is in danger, but it also requires a lot of money, highly trained experts, and, of course, a well - organized health system. After years of stagnation, the number of heart operations in the previous term has improved considerably, as it can somehow be estimated that from 870 operations in 2000 their number in 2004 reached 1450, which is very close to 1500 operations per year, which was also somehow the desired goal that we would like to achieve in 2004. Of course, some stated that it would be necessary to carry out up to 1800 and 2000 operations, given that the need for operations is also increasing due to multiple diagnostic tests. You, Mr Minister, certainly remember that you were just one of those who criticized these numbers and sometimes even defamed those achievements, when nothing was actually done. At the beginning of last September, however, you stated that waiting periods would be shorter or no longer at all, which could mean that this January's waiting period for open-heart surgery and the spread of cramped veins would be shorter than one month. The same short wait for an investigation with magnetic resonance and computer tomography. Of course, this would allow new money, 5 and a half billion, which last year as a single health insurance company received at the expense of early health contributions. Of course, we all expected what the real picture would be. When you, Mr Minister, commented in January on this announcement last September, we were able to learn that the number of people waiting for the operation from July fell from 219 to 170 on New Year's Day. So I ask you, Mr. Minister: Why did you use this comparison, the number of people waiting in July and the number waiting for New Year's Day, but not to answer what are the actual waiting periods? Why, Mr. Minister, do you not provide information on how many operations were actually carried out last year and how long will it take for a patient to wait today?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you very much for that question. As far as waiting times are concerned, we had a relatively short period of time from the fall of last year to the new year. During this time we prepared a programme, surveyed all operators to present their programme, and when we received the results of this survey back, we put in place a programme to be implemented in 2005 and 2006. In its decision, the government earmarked the funds, 5 and a half billion, for the reduction of waiting periods, but not only for 2005 but also for the transfer to 2006. With this in mind, it will be difficult in those few months, given the health pay situation, to bring these waiting periods to the level to which we thought we would settle them at that time. Like all healthcare systems, we face a long waiting period in the healthcare system. For one of the priority objectives of health reform, we have set ourselves the elimination of long waiting periods, especially for these heart and chronography operators. And it was on the chronographs that we actually reduced the number of waiting for half, and at the same time this number of waiting then on the heart surgery increased. And that is why the program of open-heart surgery is also among the priority programmes. The systematic elimination of long-term waiting periods is now taking into account in a balanced manner the many factors, the most important of which are the needs of citizens, the resources available and so on, that I do not list all these data. Over the past year, operators agreed on 1,556 operations on the basis of a proposal from the partner of the Health Insurance Office, of which 88% of this agreed programme was implemented in the regular programme. In the past, the Health Insurance Authority, as the Ministry of Health, used a waiting period indicator for a specific programme in the previous year. This is a retrospective data on the average realised waiting age of patients waiting for a certain type of treatment from the moment they entered the waiting book until the day of treatment. The completed waiting period of open-heart surgery was 120 days in 2004. The Ministry of Health reviewed data on the realised waiting age for open-heart operations in 2005. According to data from the national waiting list run by the Clinical Center, this was 77 days in 2005, which means significantly less than in 2004, which means that, according to the previous year, it decreased by 43 days or 36%. With 100% of the implementation of the contractually agreed programme, the waiting period in 2005 would surely be further reduced. The Ministry of Health has also prepared a one-time additional waiting period reduction programme on the basis of data on the number of pending on 1.7.2005. This information was also used for the open-heart surgery programme, and the number of operations waiting at the time was 219. In doing so, I inform you that the current number of people waiting for open-heart surgery is only 155, which is the right number for those 170 you mentioned, fell by 15. The data on the realised waiting age from the perspective of the pending patient is of no real value as it provides information on the waiting age in the past. Such a realistic waiting period does not contain or include data on the waiting age of patients who have not been considered at all during a given period, but are recorded in the waiting book for a longer period. From the point of view of the citizen, it is important to know the current waiting age, which is the estimated waiting period from the day the patient is entered into the waiting book until the day of the hearing, so-called prospective information. These forecasts were made by the Ministry of Health in September 2005 at the time of the introduction of one-off additional programmes to shorten waiting periods, when open-heart operations were announced on average waiting well up to 1 month, if operators 100% realized the entire agreed programme and if patients from the national waiting list were to be more determined to perform operations at the Maribor and Medic General Hospital. According to the performers, the current waiting period at the Clinical Center is up to 4 months, in Maribor 7 days, and in Medicor 14 days, with all the urgent cases at the Clinical Centre being treated within 14 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of course, interpretations regarding who and how it is included on the waiting list can be many. This could also be seen in the past period, especially before the elections, when it was very competitive, who had the relevant data. It is interesting, of course, that when you interpreted, say, your successful work in the past year, that you did not tell the Slovenian public the information you are talking about here, and that only as the success of your work in reducing waiting periods did you indicate a reduction in the number of people waiting for an open-heart operation and in this regard accepted a comparison between July and December when, due to holidays or other circumstances, there could be delays in the listing of individual patients. Of course, I have some information myself. According to my data, fewer operations were performed last year than in 2004, despite the introduction of additional funds. This means that 70 fewer of these operations would be involved. Which means the waiting periods have been extended. I also want to know if it's real information that this is mainly going to a dig at the Clinical Center. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you once again: On what criteria do you assess the fact that waiting periods have decreased, even though the number of operations that have been carried out, according to my data, was smaller, which speaks of this, without the waiting period being reduced, it could even be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u257	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. In fact, I answered that question somehow in the first part of my answer. In fact, the number of operations at the Clinical Center was somewhat unexpected in 2005. That is why we have significantly increased the programme implemented in the other two centres. I must say that the momentary waiting period that is most important to the patient is actually important. This means that if a patient wants to be enrolled in a book waiting for an operation today, how long will he be waiting for an open-heart surgery from now on? And these years have come to a significant shortening. The problem isn't just in the number of operations, it's actually just a waiting list. A list of those waiting is, of course, necessary, I will say, to supplement and also to form again. I must say that one of the main objectives of ours this year or last year was to prepare for the central management of the waiting list for individual areas, not only for open-heart operations, where the waiting list of such a species has been before, but also in the past period some, one in the centre, or one in the hospital or one in the sanatorium, if we are to say so, had a special list which we have now disabled with this system. The same system as for open-heart operations, we want to establish in cases where waiting lists occur, including for all other areas that are 12 where waiting periods are too long. And I have to say that we have actually substantially reduced waiting periods, not just now, in the open heart, that is, from enrollment to surgery, but at that time we have also reduced waiting periods for some very important operational and diagnostic interventions, such as the operation of the grey dark, the operation of the gallbladder, the operation of the kilo and so on. And there's still something to prepare for orthopaedics. There, I think that actually the results are not as good as others. As far as our press release is concerned, I am also announcing today, on this occasion, a press conference, where the latest data we have received will be used after all the institutions have actually sent the data that we will now, of course, also present to the public at the end of this week. So this observation that we have not presented all the data to the public is due to the fact that all the data has not been sent, that we have now collected them and that we will actually make them public this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much to Minister Bručan, of course, and to the other ministers, I thank you very much for the answers. Just like you, one 15th of the National Assembly, if I don't consider yourself insisting on this late hour. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Let me just say that there will be a proposal from Ambassador Žgajner Tavš and a member of mags. It has been practised that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the competent ministers to their parliamentary questions and will decide tomorrow in the context of tomorrow's vote. I am adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening and good-bye in a few hours.
