ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Good morning and good morning. We begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that I have been informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Aleš Gulič, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri from 6.30 p.m. on, Breda Pecan, Milan Petek, Jakob Presečnik and Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. And we're moving on to 38. Period of the day - it's for a re-decision on the minimum wage law. I would like to inform you that a total time of 3 and 15 minutes is foreseen for this debate. At its 47th meeting, on 11.10., the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on minimum wage. Before I give the floor to Mr Rezman's representative of the Council of State, I have seen my colleague Moze want to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I'm giving you some procedural proposal myself. Look, it's time for us to start, 17 Members of Parliament gathered here. There is no president of the National Assembly who should be an example to all of us to come here. And I also think it's justified that there are so few of us. Since people come from Trbovlje, from Kočev they drive, the crowd is unbearable at this hour before it starts in Ljubljana so that they can get here. Therefore, I would ask you to avoid that every morning - because I am sitting here - the same picture would be repeated to discuss this once at the College of the National Assembly and to find that this hour is impossible and come back to 10 a.m. For, Mr Vice-President, I can only speak as the age of this House, so that the working bodies begin now at 8 a.m. And if this continues, we will start working in the National Assembly at 6 a.m., which I think is impossible, given the composition of the National Assembly and how far away Members are. As long as you transfer this to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, I am grateful to you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you for your substantive consideration. We will absolutely propose, with professional services, to the College of the National Assembly that it meet at 10 a.m. However, we are now continuing with the envisaged agenda item. So I give the floor, as it is said, to the representative of the Council of State, to Mr Rozman to further explain the request of the Council of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Greetings to the Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague Dora Praise, who was originally envisaged to explain the veto of the State Council, but he was detained and in a few words I will explain to you the reasons why we decided to veto the aforementioned law in the State Council. First of all, I must certainly express the satisfaction that before the adoption of the law, the Minister of Labour had consulted the social partners and there was a speech on minimum wage. However, the outcome of the agreement is not in line with the expectations of the social partners, and subsequently, after the procedure, a veto was issued in the State Council. Before you make your decision again, I would like to make a few comments on the law. The bill does not maintain the current method of determining the amount of minimum wage agreed by the social partners in the negotiations. Such a system is in force in a number of EU countries. Given that this is a good practice, we propose that the government maintain the management of social dialogue and that the social partners jointly determine the level of minimum wage. If we have been successful in the past for more than 10 years, surely there is no reason or reason to continue with such good practice. In our opinion, it is not good that this role is taken by the executive branch in this case. After all, the minimum wage is paid to workers by capital, employers, companies and not the country in the budget. Although I do not claim that anyone on the budget line receives a minimum wage. The adoption of the law also does not provide for a realistic retention of the value of wages. This, however, affects those who are at the social bottom and most of them come from the labour intensive industries we know. We want them to change. However, for the time being, we cannot write off other jobs in Slovenia, not without them, but very few jobs. The two percentage increases are too low since the increase in prices of living needs according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia during the period August 2005-2006 was 2.6% and not just 2%. That means fighting 700 tolars, which isn't much. However, those with the lowest income are welcomed by every tolar. And if we calculate for the entire territory of Slovenia this amount means poor 14 million tolars. The objective agreed by the social partners that the minimum wage should be approximately 58% of the average wage in processing activities is to move away from this bill. We're at 54% circus today. In the same trend, we will fall below 50% by 2008. Believe me, this isn't right. At the same time, it is necessary to say, it is likely that many times in this space have been said and said, "Slovenia is economically successful, we are a very successful economy, all indicators are good." I remember very well the words recently said: "We have never done so well." I hope we can move on. I wish in this euphoria we would not forget one category of workers. Otherwise, the circus is only 15 to 20,000 depending on the month and we cannot forget them. We are therefore convinced that there is no need to save at minimum wage. How can we tell workers in the labour-intensive industries, Muri, MTT, Elkro, and tell them elsewhere that there is no obedience, and therefore the executive authority by its own will and order. As a follow-up, I call on you to take our comments into account, weigh them seriously and decide when voting. In order to preserve social justice, the social security of the lowest categories of our citizens should be regulated by a specific system law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All of you, colleagues, fellow Members, a representative of the Council of State and a representative of the government! The national working body, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, dealt with the request of the State Council at an emergency meeting on 11.10. The Committee was informed of the request of the Council of State, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the request of the Council of State and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs Mag. Janez Petty Officer and legal-legislative representative. However, the representative of the Council of State was not present at the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which notes that, in accordance with Article 147 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it has examined the request of the State Council for a re-decision on the minimum wage law and, given that it requires to intervene in legal matters, but only in substance, it has not defined the requirement. The representative of the government took the key parts of the Government's written opinion. He's probably gonna do it today, so I'm not gonna do it again. In the debate, some members of the Committee objected to the request of the Council of State and expressed their support for the law adopted. However, some members of the Committee felt that it would be necessary to obtain prior consent from the social partners in order to establish or harmonise the minimum wage. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the decision as follows: "The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in re-decision, to adopt a law establishing minimum wage." The proposal for a decision was not adopted because it was not voted on by the majority of the members of the Committee, which is the same as that of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you. I give the floor to a government representative to explain the opinion. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Nicely greeted! The State Council, by vetoing the minimum wage law, prevented the lowest wages of workers in Slovenia from rising and affected the poorest layers in our country. Since many social transfers are also linked to the growth of the minimum wage, it has also affected those who are entitled to compensation or aid from the State budget or goods and social insurance. Rejection is even more unusual because there are representatives of the social partners in the state council. They have taken the initiative to draw up a law because they have failed to negotiate a minimum wage. In the context of the adoption of the law, they had no comments, so their decision in the state council, when opposed to the law, was unusual and double-faced. It is unlikely, however, that the solution proposed to determine the minimum wage is not different from that of many European countries. Last but not least, we have already used such a solution in agreement with the social partners in Slovenia. The minimum wage was established by the Minister responsible for the work under the Law on Minimum Wages and Methods of Wage Coordination of 1997 and by the Law on the Method of Wage Coordination and Regression for the period 1999-2001. On the basis of that Government, it proposes that the National Assembly, when re-voting on the fixing of the minimum wage, adopt and finally make it possible for it to take effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups to this opinion, namely, Member Stanislav Brenčič will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already pointed out that, on the question of a certain amount of minimum wage, there is a considerable delay, as there is no legal basis from August onwards on which the minimum wage may be aligned or aligned with the relevant parameter and associated with several social transfers, which are linked to minimum wage levels as a starting point. This fact was also responded to by the parent’s working body and, as soon as the proposal for a law was granted, the law in question was also dealt with at an emergency meeting. We have already tried to introduce the need to include the social partners in the dialogue in determining the height or harmonising the minimum wage in the law, but we have not been successful. However, the National Assembly has done so in its consideration of the amended proposal. Thus, the law was acceptable to the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Parliamentary Group unanimously supported the law. Practically, at the end of the vote, the law received support, almost unanimous support from most of the people present. The minimum wage law must be implemented as soon as possible, since it is already such a low amount that represents a minimum wage for someone who receives this minimum wage on the basis of full-time work is so low. And if we don't get it in line with at least this minimum rate, that's with rising prices of living needs, it's still low. That is why we will re-support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting also to you respected colleagues, respected colleagues and, of course, the Minister. I will be very brief in this introductory presentation on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The fact is, we already said yes to this law when we were considering the law. Even though we had our doubts. The main considerations are those, which is why, not least, the Council of State voted veto on the minimum wage law. The fact is that this law was also not harmonised because it was a lack of social dialogue. And this is the matter which is accompanied by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in fact, the entire mandate. However, I must say that I was actually very surprised, and I will say, some kind of duplicity in the opening presentation of the Minister at today's meeting, when he said he was concerned about social transfers. We will also talk at today's session about this point, about social transfers, which, I will say, do not follow the constitutional dictatorship of the social state. And that's not really the law either. And I'm going to say that it's better to accept something than nothing that people who have a minimum full-time salary will get from the country at least something. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party we will once again say yes to the law so that people will get at least something. Once again, I feel it is unfair to play such a game and save money on people who are actually on the social side.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you. The word has magic. Franc Žnidaršič in terms of presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members is in an unfavourable situation along this veto of the State Council, as our party supports the social state. We have a problem in this decision-making in the sense that the Prime Minister, as we welcome, at all times, I would say, speaks to the public about prosperity. On the other hand, we have a minister who, with every draft law, tries to start a social state and creates more poor people. In the case of minimum wage, the Minister has given up social dialogue, which is not just for us, but also for EU countries, in some way ignored the affected and their representatives and proposed that the minimum wage should be harmonised, which is lower than the cost of living. Which, of course, is not acceptable to us. I must say that the calculation is such that all employers together will pay around 900,000 Slovenian tolls a month, taking into account the actual increase in living costs of 2.6%. All together. But the injured would get half a sausage if those 0.5s were admitted per month. This is the problem we have in this vote. However, I must say that we are already late to harmonise the minimum wage and that we will support this path of law so that those with the lowest income will receive at least the 1,500 or several tolars of this harmonisation as soon as possible. So we won't support this veto. We'll support the law. However, we are disappointed at the events that took place in accepting this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Rudi Veršnik. Here you go. Mr. Minister, I ask you to be aware that you are in the Hall of the National Assembly and stop calling. I noticed you've been playing with your phone before. Please take this into account. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Versnick.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are, in fact, surprised by the veto of the State Council and by the complaints of the social partners, who are one of the culprits in their claims that those living on the minimum wage have not yet received the proposed increase. The minimum wage is established for us as an institution for the protection of the material and social level of employees. It shall represent the amount to be received by the staff member for the full employment obligation. The proposal introduces a system of annual harmonisation of the applicable minimum wage with an accepted estimate of the expected price growth adopted as a basis by the Government for the preparation of the budget. It's a system of multiplying two known numbers. The result is a new value of minimum wage. In this calculation, the Minister or Minister shall take into account the recommendation of the social partners, as set out in this Act. We are confident that the role of the social partners to agree on payments will come from here above the minimum wage, which is the legal minimum in our country. It is not in the employer's interest to hire dissatisfied workers because they know exactly that they do not give them the expected results. I don't understand why we can't get rid of the bad experiences of the past when the state has always had to prescribe everything, even though this has led to a lot of nonsense and illogicality. The Institute of Minimum Wages is intended to be used only in exceptional situations. However, it must not become a criterion for payment of wages. The proposed minimum wage law provides for between 1.8.2006 and 31.7.2007 a 2% increase in minimum wage. As of 1 August 2006, the minimum wage would be 125,052,00 tolars. However, today we are at the end of October. Article 4 of the minimum wage bill also provides for a 2% increase in the guaranteed wage. It is to be subject to an amount of 56.970,00 tolars from now on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a minimum wage law is in line with the practice of other members of the European Union. At the same time, we welcome the Ministry's efforts to reduce the number of different bases. We also support the intention that the guaranteed salary ceases to be used as a criterion for determining certain benefits and as a censorship for obtaining certain rights. We will once again support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democrats' Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. Ambassador Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we will again decide on a minimum wage law that abolishes the legal practice of negotiating minimum wage in the economic social world. In doing so, we would like to point out once again the fact that coordination between the social partners in relation to minimum wage levels is common practice in most European Union countries as well, as is reflected in the accompanying international comparisons annexed by the Ministry to the interpretation of the law. It is an important tradition of negotiating between trade unions, employers and the government with the aim of finding a middle path between economic development and social security. In the well-founded practices provided by the law in force and abolished by Minister Drobnič, it has broken down in the State Council. The request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide once again on the law on minimum wages is in fact followed by warnings that we have raised during the debate in the consideration and adoption of the proposed law by members of the LDS Club and other members of the opposition. In doing so, our warnings referred to where the minimum wage is to be determined and whether the proposed harmonisation and consequently the raise of the minimum wage by Minister Drobnic ensures that the real value of the minimum wage is maintained. Our opinion is no. We have been convinced and convinced today that there is a need to summarise the dictates of the existing law in this law and to clearly record where social dialogue is taking place and who are the social partners with which dialogue is being conducted. Therefore, in the process of enacting the law, we have submitted a supplement stating that the Minister for Labour has received the opinion of the Economic Social Council on the proposed minimum wage and that it is not enough to consult the social partners only. The fact is that the Economic Social Council has always been involved in setting minimum wages. In the adoption process so far, the parliamentary majority has rejected all our proposals to supplement the laws, calls by trade unions before the third hearing and adopted an amendment that only stipulates that the competent minister should consult with the social partners. This supplement, in our opinion, at least obliges where and with whom to engage in social dialogue. The existing dictatorship, which discusses consultation with the social partners, is too loose and allows the government to choose the right "social" partners independently. Therefore, the request of the Council of State offers us another opportunity, colleagues and colleagues, to give the applicant the opportunity by rejecting the law a chance to draw up a more appropriate proposal for a law. Even though we have heard today that we are actually making this impossible for those who are, in fact, bound to economic and social security with minimum wage, and we are trying to do something bad. Of course, here we make a decision: better something small than nothing. Of course, the solutions offered by this law are not good. In the LDS, it is very important that the level of the proposed minimum wage is given to the Ministry of Labour at least the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council, where there is a place for negotiation and coordination between the representative social partners, we stress, representative trade unions, representative employers and the government. In order to avoid the fear of an agreement in the Economic and Social Council, the law could also provide that, unless the Minister receives an opinion by 1 August of each year on the harmonised amount of the minimum wage for a period of one year, coordinated by all three social partners in the Economic and Social Council, the Minister himself may determine the level of the minimum wage in accordance with the expected increase in the price of living needs. In this way, those who receive a minimum wage in Slovenia are protected in the event of possible failure to negotiate on the Economic and Social Council with regard to the minimum wage. We have also proposed a 2.3% increase in the minimum wage in the LDS Club of Members, which has also been rejected in this meeting. We are confident that a 2% raise does not ensure that the real value of the minimum wage is maintained and that this will affect all recipients, to whom maintaining the real value of the minimum wage means much. We all agree with that. The Ministry should already increase the minimum wage on the basis of the legislation so that, in addition to aligning the minimum wage with the growth of living needs proposed by the Ministry, it takes into account certain other corrective measures in force and ignores them. For example, gross domestic product growth. We therefore stress once again that this is a machete government's attitude towards workers receiving minimum wages. The projected growth of 2% is significantly lower than, according to Prime Minister Janša, the forecast is 5% nominal and 2% real wage growth in 2006. At the same time, the comparative review of the data provided by the Ministry also shows that the minimum wage in the countries we want to exceed is higher and that it will be higher at the end of the next financial perspective if we maintain the legal way of growth. Thus, we will not reach 100% of the European Union's prosperity in 2013. Especially if there is an increase in value added tax, which would mean that the minimum wage will be even more minimal. Finally, I would like to say that there is no legal void in Slovenia, as some government representatives like to point out. For the amount of the minimum wage shall be harmonised on the basis of the minimum wage law, the method of coordination of wages and the annual leave rescheduling for the period 1991-2001, which provides that the provisions of the law relating to the fixing of the minimum wage shall apply also after 31 January 2002 until the new law provides for a different method of determining the minimum wage and the law implementing the private sector wage policy agreement for the period 2004-2005, which provides that the minimum wage and the amount of the guaranteed salary shall apply until the amount is fixed by law. This means that we have a certain way of coordinating the minimum wage as well as the starting amount, i.e. August 2005. On the basis of these two laws, the Ministry should increase the minimum wage, which would mean that the increase in the price of living needs should take into account other corrections which the Ministry does not wish to cover in relation to the proposed law in determining the minimum wage. By the way, the law also provides that the percentage for which the minimum wage is increased shall be determined by the Economic Social Council. The Minister shall then determine the minimum wage on the basis of the percentage found. On conclusion, we would also like to make a proposal on how we see the solution below. That is why we are proposing the following solution for both trade unions and employers and the government. The Ministry should only determine by law the minimum wage by August 2007 on the basis of the corrections already in place. The content part is said to be where the minimum wage is agreed, who participates in the agreement and where adjustments are coordinated, the minimum wage shall be entered into the new Minimum Wages Act, which shall be adopted by June 2007 at the latest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Ambassador Majd Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! Mr. Secretary and representative of the Council of State! The request of the Council of State for re-decision on the minimum wage law of the Socialist Group of Members was not surprising. If we've been following the events, that's the answer to the state council's unfulfilled calls. On 11 September, the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities asked the drafter of the law to take account of social dialogue and to take into account a different way of harmonising the minimum wage. Not to take into account the estimated increase in prices of living needs, but to take into account the real increase in prices of living needs, which, for the time being, was only 0.6%. However, this amount, which plays an important role in all subsequent coordinations, is an even greater difference between wage growth and wage coordination in each subsequent coordination. Finally, on 13 September, the Council of State sent a second opinion to the National Assembly, in which it also pointed out that the opinion of the Economic and Social Council should be taken into account in the drafting of the bill, and reiterated the difference between the estimated growth in living needs and the real rise in the prices of living needs. In the debate on the working body, we drew attention to both of them. We've been defending the acceptance of supplements that both of us would have taken into account. I'm afraid they weren't accepted. The discussion also showed how the Ministry's representatives are not prepared to accept corrections and ensure that social dialogue is taken into account. It was crucial for us that the agreement was reached by employers and workers in the Economic and Social Council. We therefore proposed an amendment that took into account the least possible measure still acceptable to parliamentary parties. The Supplement was adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly, however. However, it has proved that the social partners are not satisfied with this. That's why it's the veto of the state council. Social Democrats understand the requirement for re-decision on the minimum wage law as a warning to the government that it must respect at least those principles which are generally applicable and which it also refers to. If its desire is to protect the recipients of the lowest wages, then it should be done in such a way as to coordinate with the social partners. An excuse for the absence of social dialogue cannot be time pressure. Finally, the National Assembly adopted a decision imposing the necessity of social dialogue. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs referred in the introduction to the law to the European Social Charter and to the principles of international organisation of work, with which we fully agree with the Social Democrats. However, we demand that this remains not only at the declaration level, but that the Government also act in the spirit of defining these documents when drafting the law. We cannot only agree to quoting the terms, but we must ask ourselves whether the proposal takes them into account. Finally, it is necessary for all laws whose content relates to issues dealt with by collective agreements or other forms of communication with the social partners to state explicitly in the explanation of the law whether an agreement with the social partners has been reached on these issues, how long has it been coordinated, where things could not be found or reached agreement. But it seems that the coalition doesn't want to replace coordination for the first time. The purpose of the law is to protect workers from abuse and to prevent an unacceptable reduction in the minimum wage for full-time work, says the applicant. It is right that everyone must have the opportunity to live with the work he has freely accepted and that workers have the right to a fair payment that is sufficient for them and their families to live a decent life, as set out in the social charter. It is also true that in determining the amount of minimum wage, regardless of the different practice in European countries, we do not follow those who leave the determination of the amount of State authority, because this is rare, but we follow positive practice, which often introduces the participation of state authorities and social partners in special permanent bodies or the formation of "ad hoc" bodies of social partners in determining the amount. Unfortunately, the minister reiterates the possibilities for coordination that some European countries know, but these are, as it were, rarer. Notwithstanding the different practice of determining the amount of minimum wage, however, it points out that the joint recommendations of the international organisation of work and the European Commission adopted in 1995 have been highlighted. I state that the statutory minimum wage should be determined in full agreement with the social partners. It is calculated on the basis of a basket of basic products and services and is regularly coordinated with inflation. And a second recommendation. The Government must ensure official calculation and publication of the minimum of living. The method of calculation should be consulted with the social partners. These are the indications that the applicant also made in the introduction of the law. Then why doesn't he do it? If the minimum wage of a type of social convention is a social convention, it has written it itself, it is indeed necessary for it to have a social agreement. And again. Therefore, it cannot impose liability for veto and for late coordination of minimum wage on the State Council and on those who are alerted to the absence of social dialogue. As a result, social democrats cannot agree on such a course of action. For this reason, we see the only possibility that the law will be rejected with the veto of the State Council and that such decisions will be taken in a coordinated manner. Talking about how it's unacceptable because the minimum wage workers won't get, that's not true. They get minimum wages, they don't just get harmonised wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Council of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! On 11 October this year, the Council of State reviewed the law establishing the minimum wage and decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should decide again on it. In its explanation, the Council of State found that at its 46th meeting, it had already considered a proposal for a minimum wage law and had already pointed out that the bill did not maintain the practice so far in order to determine the annual amount of the minimum wage in the framework of negotiations with the social partners. On the contrary, the Council of State has found that the law repeals the existing institution of bargaining between the social partners. Both at the meeting of the National Assembly and at the meeting of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs parental committee, the main debate revolved around negotiating between the social partners on the level of the minimum wage, which was later determined by the Minister responsible for the work. We have also written this settled practice in the Act to Article 2, although this is discussed by the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which was ratified in 1972. It provides that a full consultation of representative employers' and workers' organisations is required in determining the minimum wage. Government representatives have argued and we believe that this Convention is automatically taken into account when determining the amount of minimum wage, even though it is or is not enshrined in the law. And if it has been said again in the State Council that this negotiating institute is being abolished, it is purely misleading and repeating the untruths from the debate that took place in the National Assembly. By definition, the minimum wage is the minimum monthly payment for full-time work performed, which belongs to an employee in the Republic of Slovenia. Payments less than the minimum wage may be lower than that amount only if the employment is shorter than full-time. The minimum wage was last coordinated with the social partners in 2004. At that time, the amount was fixed for 2005 and it was also ensured that the amount was paid at the last level until the law stipulated otherwise. It is said that this amount is paid so much time at this level until the partners are given each other a different amount. In the meantime, the social partners of the private sector have already agreed on an anticipated increase in salaries over the next two years without direct government cooperation. Regrettably, however, negotiations on a paid agreement and a paid policy, including guidelines on minimum wage, have stalled. Therefore, the Ministry, at the proposal of the social partners, has drawn up a proposal for a law setting out the minimum wage adopted by the National Assembly and will systematically address this issue. The social partners have twice considered these legal solutions of the ministry prior to the adoption of the National Assembly, for the first time at the 148th meeting, on 19 July, when, in the form before us, they, of course, supported the Social Democrats in principle by proposing to the Ministry that the recommendations of the Economic and Social Council be taken into account as far as possible. According to the bill, the minimum wage will be harmonised once a year in August for the expected price increase and a simultaneous increase in the guaranteed salary is foreseen. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the value of minimum wage is low, but compared to the amount of minimum wages between the new accession countries of the European Union Slovenia at a second level. The amount of minimum wage in Slovenia is almost twice as high as in most acceding countries. The amount depends on several factors, and many times on employers’ ability to pay this already low value. Of course, in our Group of Members, we would like to see as few workers and workers as possible on the minimum wage. Thus, at the minimum wage in Slovenia, according to data for June and July, around 18,000 workers and workers are tied to guaranteed salaries and some state financial transfers are linked. Therefore, the adoption of the law is urgently needed. In the New Slovenia Group, therefore, we cannot explain to ourselves the branches of the State Council any other way than deliberately stalling to the detriment of the socially weak. The adoption of the veto has therefore caused the greatest harm to those socially weak who receive the minimum wage and will be deprived of the real value of their earnings. As we know, they are on minimum wages mainly in sectors that are already barely living day to day. And if the growth of the minimum wage is not guaranteed in the law, workers and workers on the minimum wage are also deprived of the minimum wage for this envisaged, otherwise a minimum increase of several thousand. The New Slovenia Group does not support the minimum wage veto. In re-decision on the law, we will vote in favour of the adoption of the law because we want this law to be adopted as soon as possible and enter into force as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you, too. We have concluded our presentations on the views of the Group and are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word of Member Stana Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. When we discussed the minimum wage at the previous meeting, I thought this chapter would be closed. Finally, it is in the interests of those who are socially weak to get some more money. Just talking about minimum wage is hard because I know it's a little money. But the fact is, we still have economic operators with us who cannot pay more than is now agreed. For this reason, there must also be a balance in the economy for those entities to survive and for minimum wages to be paid to those workers, since then the question of what happened is whether they are in the employment establishment or have a minimum wage. I see the solution to raising the minimum wage in raising productivity, of course with economic growth. And the labour market will then arrange for those economic operators that can offer more wages than the minimum to absorb those workers, so that these salaries will indeed be a minimum number. I always support social dialogue. But when we ask ourselves if it doesn't come to him, what's better, then it's stalling from August 1st to today, or if it's better to set that minimum wage. As far as I am aware, the trade unions have attached this method to the Minister to determine the minimum wage if it does not occur, I stress, unless there is a social dialogue and an agreement, of course, with this. I myself do not understand the most national world, which has extended this agony to the most socially weak, even though it is small money and I see some Members as misleading. Deception when they say that in the financial perspective 2007-2013 the minimum wage will increase by so much and so. It's a pessimistic view of what's going on. Why pessimistic? Because it doesn't say anywhere that social partners can't agree on a bigger raise. Yes, you can. The social partners may agree on more than the minimum set by the Minister. That's why I see, let's say, this law just in the sense that it's two-step. If there is no agreement at the time in the performances, the ministry and the minister decide to increase the minimum wage, so I see that this is necessary from the urgency and, of course, I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	I would ask the President to ensure, of course, that, before further consideration of the articles of the law, we ensure that Members are informed of the articles of the law. I propose that the articles of the law may be read by the Council of State in order for Members to talk about it. It is from the debate of the previous Member that I find out whether he is speaking to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	However, let every Member, as he understands it, pass the content himself and do not "interfer" into the words of another. You know that your procedural proposal is highly intentional and uncorrected to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	I propose that the text of the law to be adopted be divided [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Comrade Squeakle, I'll take your word for it. Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am a little disappointed in one, two or even three previous opinions or discussions. The minimum wage law, on which the Council of State has adopted veto, is, in my opinion, another evidence and a case in a series of laws and standards that have already been seen and enforced, where the current executive branch, with a legal norm, has abolished social dialogue under the cover of European directives. Thus, it is slowly but persistently exercising some types of executive authoritarianism, which some ministers, with excessive legal powers, are the only possible way to enforce government policy or policy for which we have adopted some documents in this national council. At the very least, one would expect the holder of such a strategy to avoid social dialogue to be the Minister of Social Affairs and Labour, and to insist so stubbornly on the legal provision in Article 2 of this Law, which is extremely authoritarian, to take into account that we still have a market economy and therefore still face a lack of listening to capital for the social pay of employees. So we are still building a society and a country of socially responsible capital. That is to say, that capital, which will also be able to judge for itself what is acceptable also in terms of social cohesion and the sensitivity of society. And in such situations, in my view, the Minister for Labour cannot and must not be on the side of the rise of social dialogue. Also at the point of this law, which provides for this minimum wage. Especially since this minimum wage law is one of the rare defence mechanisms of employees against abuse and the unacceptable real reduction of minimum wage in the coming period. As is the case in some other documents that we or we accept at this time in this national assembly. I therefore propose to the proposer, the government and the minister that you step back from your original intention and take into account the opinion of the Economic and Social Council and the opposition's proposals in this National Assembly. Both at the mandatory consultation, as we proposed in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the Minister with the social partners, and the proposed different way of correcting the minimum wage each year, as set out in this law. And something else about the very height of the minimum wage, about which today there are so many words. I'm just going to abuse that word here, and there's a lot of demagogism on the part of the proponents and those who defend this law. Indeed, as has already been said, we speak between 15 and 20,000 employees who receive these minimum wages. We're talking about the height of this minimum wage, which is just over 120,000 SIT. This is the earnings of a worker who works full-time every month. It is just over 160 hours, which is comparable to the amount of this minimum wage with the meeting flat for one member of the Supervisory Board, which is about 120,000 SIT. In some cases they also violated and went to 140,000 SIT for an hour or two at a meeting of the Supervisory Board. So this is a comparison. A minimum salary of 120,000 SIT, sitting for two hours in the control council, and you get 120,000 SIT for that. This is this competition or, this is a competitive case, a model that we are also talking about today in this National Assembly. And those who insist so stubbornly on their scheming position that the height of this minimum wage could also have negative effects on competitiveness and I don't know what else. This is the competition I was talking about before that I don't sell out. When these same government officials, and in particular some ministers, and in particular state secretaries, receive some senior government officials on a regular basis for their full-time work a few million a year to sit in the supervisory councils. And we're not talking about it. Even in those companies where people get minimum wages, some are or are just above the minimum wage. I'll give you the Luke Koper case. Some employees are there just above the minimum wage. The President of the Supervisory Board and the members receive 5, 6, 7 million flats per year to oversee the same company. And Mercator, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Comrade Jerovšek, let my colleague Kumer speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	And that's the reality. And this is a version of Slovenian capitalism. Because he who sits on money and capital is the one who gives a damn about who makes that money or that capital. And that's the reality. That's what we're talking about today. So once again, about demagogism, how unfair we are, how we prevent or harm anyone when we do not accept this law, that it will not receive minimum wage. This is really a demagogy and an untruth and a lie. Each of these gets a minimum wage. Only a month now does not get between 700 and 1,500 tolars. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you, Comrade Kumer. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It seems that there will be little left of us from the long list of candidates for the debate that we will want to say about this. But I still think it's worth saying a few things. Firstly, I am sure that this law, and especially the veto of the State Council, is not so much about material, but rather about fundamental issues. To talk about material issues in the numbers you have already mentioned, 1,500 to 1,800 people. An increase, which, Mr Minister, is under the increase in living costs or in accordance with the increase in living costs, amounts to a maximum of 1,000 tolars per month. The fact that it is indeed a delay is true, but the government is also complicit in this delay. I will not say the only one, but there is also a government, especially if there was an opportunity and the opportunity for social partners, employers and employees to agree, there was no reason for the government not to respect such an agreement. It is true, at least in my firm behaviour, that if employers agree to be promoted by agreement with employees, then the state cannot be affected, damaged or said that it must defend it from certain national interests. With regard to the guaranteed salary, Mr Minister, do not tell me that you did not know when this agreement was concluded that you would propose that law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in which you have paid in one way or another at the historical waste site and will in future coordinate all transfers only with the movement of costs of life, regardless of what this will mean for recipients of social transfers. However, it will mean much more or as difficult as it is for the recipients of the minimum wage. That is why I am not concerned with the question of just or mainly material questions, but with the question of principles. I consider the veto of the State Council, which was unanimously adopted, in which employers and employees participated, also as a warning that I do not say anything more resilient, you and the government, Mr Minister, about how the social partnership takes place in Slovenia. You smiled again. I won't use the term I used at the board meeting. The president remembers. I also allow you to laugh, but the problem is not funny, the problem is very serious. Mr Minister, sometimes through the social partnership in Slovenia, the law on pension insurance has been passed - we know with what difficulty; the law on labour relations with many important changes in which employers and workers have agreed to new solutions that are adapted to the market economy and which have led to a major shift. We were able to pass a law on employment and the insurance of workers, and there were many more, and there were no revolutions. Today you are not able as President, as Minister, to coordinate successfully neither in the field of health nor in the field of labour relations. Everything that comes into Parliament is inconsistent. Saying it's just a principle and anger because you're the minister - probably not. However, anger is justified when you claim to represent the interests of workers in social dialogue and not to be surprised that people are in a bad mood. If I got up a little bit worse today, I'd be angry that you're laughing at it, but now I'm not angry, but I want the public of Slovenia to see how social dialogue seems ridiculous to you to be able to get rid of it with my left hand. However, it is a serious institution, Mr Minister, and I understand that employers and employees as two of the three social partners will resist your relationship in this way and that I understand and say so. When we discussed what to do in the parliamentary group, we considered whether it was right to support or not the law, including in terms of previous, immediate coordination, from the point of view of August 1st, the application for backward use and the like, and we came from these views. If it is indeed true and good will, then even if this law is not adopted, it can come within one month with a harmonised law. Yes, but, of course, if that's really a good will! And because of a month that can be difficult for a lot of people, it is still better to accept a good solution than a solution with which two of the three social partners will be completely dissatisfied. I am thinking out loud, not to understand in a formalised sense, I also see the possibility that the Council of State will come with a bill if it is not adopted or if it is adopted, and immediately proposes solutions that will at least, as far as minimum wage is concerned, be harmonised among the social partners and we will then see, Mr Minister, what you will say. Whether you will come back with important studies that will prove that on a couple of ten tolars of Slovenian material balance and Slovenian history, or you will say, thank God that employers and workers have agreed at least on a minimum wage, and I, as minister, have to do just that and say, great, let's make it work, not to oppose it. I am comforted that today I have heard that a complete coalition and some other opposition parties may support this law and that the law itself will be adopted, so that none of us who ask fundamental questions about it will be able to report that we have deliberately delayed the adoption of the law to the detriment of the socially disadvantaged. As Mr Capuder said, don't blame me when Mr Squeakl called and protested the Members' statements, I said with my own voice, "Before these national assemblies and also before the public, every Member is responsible for the nonsense he says." So it is, and in this part we all have the same rights and the same situation, and the public will assess who was closer to the truth and to some common interests, who were not. Finally, I would like to stress only the following: it would be good for all to make a lesson of this case, which is not materially important, but which is fundamentally very important. I would like for the Economic and Social Council and for the social partners, because we have been in our party, as well as personally those who have proposed a decision on how the social dialogue is going on, I would hope to suggest that it would be very useful if the results of the social dialogue - coordinated or uncoordinated - were to be obtained in writing. I now find more and more that, even after we get the information that coordination has been done, we get the following day, one week from now, 14 days from now completely different assessments. One thing you say, Mr. Minister, is another by some social partners, and sometimes even between them there are differences. I don't think this is going to be a good way to have a social dialogue, because it's just going to open up questions for us, but we're never going to know what's true. And that's probably to the detriment of everyone. I don't want to say who's telling the truth right now, but if three people feel the same way about some of the agreements that have been made, then it's not good, and it makes it difficult to assess what's really been agreed upon, and finally our work. Secondly, what is even more important about social dialogue. We must be aware that only persistently, openly, openly, ready to find solutions to work in this area can achieve important results, and therefore it would be really good that, as employees have proposed, the Prime Minister has engaged in this, because you are likely to have sufficient time or this moment of trust, and that there is one possibility that this confidence will be restored, because social dialogue and successful results without mutual trust, that you believe in each other and believe, above all, that you are willing to find a solution, there will probably be no results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Minister Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I think you can also get a written statement from the Economic and Social Council on the harmonisation of this law. The notorious fact is that the government did not have this law in the programme and did not intend to adopt it. The decision to draw up a proposal was adopted on the Economic and Social Council on the basis of a union proposal. Because they failed to agree on the minimum wage for employers and employees, because this is their area, they asked the government and the minister to do so. I didn't have any intention. And that's a notorious fact and the truth, and you can read it. That's why I'm worried about the untruths that are spreading. Secondly, it would be worth stressing, irrespective of the fact that the government agrees with the proposal submitted by the Council of State at that time, in the debate that the social partners in collective agreements should regulate the corresponding levels of the starting wages. In fact, the minimum wage in Slovenia, as in most other countries, should also be some kind of protector. In the case of exceptional cases which wages agreed with collective agreements should, as a rule, exceed. The government will continue to support the efforts of the social partners to find suitable solutions to address this difficult issue. So the starting wages should be raised by the social partners, that's their thing, that's no problem. The minimum wage is that guard and the government did not have in the programme of this law, but absolutely not, nor did it want to interfere. Or maybe someone is disturbed by social dialogue, by success. The Collective Contracts Act was previously coordinated for four years in the previous term - no results have been achieved. In the context of this minister, who you say can't conduct social dialogue, he was in three months because he came with full consent. Do you mind if we have coordinated 28 laws, 25 of which we have aligned? The Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment - only one article was harmonised and how the Institute's Council should be composed. They're mostly interested in who's gonna be sitting in the office. But all rights were other things. The law on pension and disability insurance - an uncoordinated article - and this is the composition of the board of the institution. In the case of the Transfer Coordination Act, employers and employees did not end up in favour of this, for admission and employers claimed that the government proposal was appropriate, but the government proposed coordination of the sick, those that were longer than one year in order to be in line with wage growth, but did not. [[...]] In such a situation, the government must act to protect the lowest layers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's a notorious fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Your Honor! The proposal for re-examination or decision-making on the State Council's minimum wage law is based on reasons which have not been mediated or substantiated in the current debate on the law by the social partners, since it is necessary to reaffirm that so far the social partners have not opposed the manner of valorisation and have not requested guardians in the event of a faster rise in prices than expected. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs or the competent minister does not decide on the minimum wage on his own, only summarizing the amounts found in the data. Redecision will certainly make those with a minimum wage angry because they will not gain a deserved increase. This situation must be blamed, however, by those who had already advocated the so-called turbo capitalist, and now suddenly felt the social moment. In adopting the law, we supported the Social Democrats' amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to establish, on the basis of that assessment and after consulting the social partners, the Minister or Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs. It is the implementation of the provisions of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation. 131 on the establishment of a minimum wage, where it is envisaged that representatives of State authorities shall consult representative organisations of workers and employers in the implementation of the Convention. If we had adopted the amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would have come to the bottom of a position where, given the current situation, it would be almost utopian to expect the government to agree to frequent blackmail by trade unions, often using different instruments and methods to achieve its objectives. Perhaps we would never reach consensus or quickly enough. In spite of their stubbornness, the unions would condemn the government, and because of the union’s will, the recipients of the minimum wage would be at a disadvantage. According to the proposal of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Minister or Minister could not determine the amount of the minimum wage in accordance with the law on the basis of the government's accepted assessment of the price of living needs, but should determine the amount on the basis of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. This would destroy one of the purposes of the law, which was also supported by the social partners in previous cases, in order to introduce a more permanent systemic solution through the law. The annual establishment of minimum wage would not depend so much on the negotiating will of the social partners, but they would not be forced to make urgent decisions because of possible time constraints. Your Honor! In particular, I would like to point out that there are around 14,000 minimum salaries, and I think that even more, employees and intentional delays in the adoption of this law by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats would make it even more difficult for recipients of social pay or other benefits from unemployment and social security insurance that are waiting to increase the minimum wage and on this basis harmonise social transfers. Your Honor! Repeat, number 14,000 and above is a very large number. And this is one of the strong arguments why in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we oppose the re-examination of this law in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the recipients of the minimum wage are that group of employees, which each tolar means very much to them. It is therefore imperative that the minimum wage law enter into force as soon as possible. To honourable Members and honourable Members who oppose the adoption of this law or want to delay its implementation together with the Council of State for personal, political or any other reason, I would like to say that such manipulation with citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who already live on the brink of survival is extremely inappropriate and insulting to these people. And I'm sure that quasi your claim for their social rights is just another one of those attempts at misleading and hiding for honest purposes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will once again be very happy to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After this performance, I don't know if I would say anything or comment, but Mr Jerovšek, please shut up. [[...]] I'm asking you to stick to the rules of procedure as much as possible. But I'm sure the chairman will warn you. "Intentional delay on the part of the Social Democrats" - to report deliberate delay to the Social Democrats at this moment is at least, to say the least, unwise work, even though, Mr Pojbič, you are sneezing. The Council of State has decided to veto, and that is why we are discussing this law again today. However, we are discussing it correctly, as I agree with the warnings of the State Council. I am not guided by any personal, political, or any reason. To talk about people who are on the verge of survival - yes, a respected government, a respected minister, you have the key to a better future in your hands. With this key you waved two years ago when you conquered power, now you will have to find the lock and open this door to a better future. You are forecasting reforms, reforms are partially implemented, and a better future is yet to come. I do not agree with the argument that those who do not agree with each solution make it impossible for those who are bound to a minimum wage to live a better life in order to get more livelihood. I don't agree with this logic either: let's take it a little bit, it's better than nothing. True, some people find it difficult to live; indeed, some in the past have gained much on their own jury account or on any account, and it is true that they have been abusingly rich. To tell us that we support the turbo capitalist - these turbo capitalists are moving here and there, our support certainly does not. I speak for myself now, even in my personal name. Well, the warnings of the State Council are certainly in place. The smile of the minister, who has already been warned by Comrade Potrč, is certainly not in place, but his statement that he is concerned is much closer to me. The Minister's achievements in individual negotiations are also welcome, but at the same time it is necessary to draw attention to those agreements that have not been implemented, which the social partners point out. And to say that the unions will be guilty of not getting what the government or minister mercifully intended for them is more than funny. If anyone seeks to improve the status of these people, they are trade unions, whether within the Economic and Social Council, within the economic partnership or as part of civil society. How important the social agreement is, how important social communication is, we have pointed out several times, and at the previous meeting I have also raised the issue in relation to partnership, with a social agreement. In the field of energy, they have been busy not to say anything at all appalled, given that the Economic and Social Committee has not met since we have a new government and that there has been no such laws or such things as should be discussed on the Economic and Social Committee. See, social communication is a demanding project, it is a difficult topic, a difficult content, but the result of this communication is strength. The firmness of the economic and social partners to agree on certain issues and then it is also much easier to implement these matters into life, and every effort within the Economic and Social Council is worth the attention and I propose that this economic social communication continue within the Committee, and so forth.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, President, colleagues and colleagues. With this veto of the State Council, which is calling for a re-examination of this law here in the National Assembly, I would also like to join in the view that it is a manoeuvre that is not useful or that is not useful and the consequences of which would actually be felt by the recipients of the minimum wage. Today we have heard that there are more than 14,000. In fact, I must also tell my fellow Members from two parties, who are building their social demagogies on this occasion, that they have actually caused the most harm to those to whom they are supposed to come forward so far. And these are the facts. In fact, not only are you delaying what the government has done on the basis that the social partners themselves have not been able to come to a conclusion and have, as we know, proposed such a solution to the government in the Economic and Social Council. This law has been summarized and I think it is correct for the recipients of these salaries and also for social transfers. And see, with this, this social demagogy that you've created in this regard, you've achieved completely different effects in the public. I know that this was politically motivated, that it was in favour of an option even in the current local elections. You have thus achieved that, in my opinion, people were wrongly convinced that Turbo Capitalists are the ones who will solve the social problems of these worst-paid categories in our society. Last year's case is very typical. Mr. current mayor of Ljubljana made a few thousand euros every day in his previous position because of sales. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	Comrade Jerovšek, you will probably understand that I have to cut into your debate. [[...]] You know the Rules of Procedure. I know you know him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for reaching out, but I have the right to an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Comrade Jerovšek [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	I have the right to an explanation. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	We're not in the explanatory phase! Secondly, I will not allow you to speak outside the law. Please, if you'll hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	The explanation is perfectly correct, and you can't see into my head what I'm going to do out of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Sometimes I'm very happy about it, Comrade Pukšič, peace. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	Please allow me, but don't disturb my concentration in the future. [[...]] In fact, this Mr. Mayor is present or future - from that sale of property to the Cayman Islands, it has been seen that he has saved several thousand euros every day of his directing in Mercator. Every day! It's just him, not his family, the family has other savings, obviously. At the same time, the workers were practically on or under the minimum wage. And now this demagogism has contributed to the false belief that these are the people who will support their efforts or their legitimate demands that they be properly paid, that it is not just the wage relationship between the employer and the employee. And for that reason, of course, I cannot accept the proposal that, at the possible fall of the law, as I understand it, the State Council should come up with a proposal for a law. In the state world, despite whether these unions are represented there, which we have heard of, what they are arguing about, about composition, participation in these saints. Unfortunately, trade unions as representatives of interests in the national world, even if they were significantly more transparent on the part of those who are supposed to be represented, are not a decisive partner in the national world. According to many of its solutions, the State Council was actually on the side of the capital. There are stronger those representatives of the capital, and so far this has been preserved. And that is why I cannot trust these proposals of the State Council, because there the representatives of the grandstand are significantly stronger and under their influence they also get many times within the state union council, which in the state world perform differently than outside the street when they call their officials on the streets of Ljubljana. For this reason, I will not support this proposal, and I will vote in favour of the adoption of a law that is actually a guardian, which is a safeguard in the event that, as has been clear, these negotiations with the social partners have not come to fruition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The topic today is really sensitive, subtle, we're talking about those workers who get the lowest, minimum wages. The law, as I can see, is a law in force, not because they would be happy with it, but because clearly the social partners, employers and trade unions could not agree on a minimum wage. They didn't know! And that's why this law is needed. They couldn't even agree on any higher wages. We would be happy if it were 150,000, why 125,000, if this is just a matter of social dialogue - is this also a matter of the economic situation in which employers are found? Therefore, do not say that this is just a matter of social dialogue, not a matter of work and creation on the market. As New Slovenia's Member, I would be pleased to see that the higher minimum wage would be and that the well-being that the President of the country is talking about and in which my fellow Member, Žnidaršič, believes. It is not true, however, that the minister creates more and more poverty - stricken people, or laws, by means of this law. That's not true, and that's a lie, and that's a demagic. Also according to Alpes - I hope you will not say that they are lying - there were 12,660 guaranteed salaries in Slovenia in August, minimum wages in three months and 5,000 more. That is to say, the data is not getting worse. But we're not gonna say we're happy with that. We would be happy to have higher minimum wages, as few of these recipients as possible, and as much wealth as possible - let us all work for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, if I use the most modest expression, I can be sad in terms of the assessment of the performance of Mr Minister, which is actually going through the whole story of the adoption of this law, where, in fact, by always accusing everyone we have any concerns, it is addressed in the sense that we do not want to allow the economically and socially weak to raise the minimum wage. I think that I have repeated this here many times - by no means, we do not accept these accusations, but we want to give this subject our own perspective. Mr. Minister, once again, I would like to remind you of what is written in this law and why we have doubts about the content of this law. Today you yourself cited the Minimum Wage Act, the method of harmonising wages and the annual holiday regression in the period 1999-2001. I would like to remind you that the text of this law in Article 4 says that the minimum wages are aligned with the rise in the price of living needs in a way of coordination that applies to the coordination of the starting wages of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. But I would also warn you that there is a provision in Article 5 that says there are other corrections. Therefore, in order to take account of - in addition to the harmonisation referred to in the first article, which I have read first, further harmonisation can be made during the current year, taking into account the percentage of gross domestic product growth found. In accordance with the arrangements, you would have the primary task of determining the amount of the minimum wage referred to in the law on the implementation of the private sector wage policy agreement in the period 2004-2005, where the nominal amounts are. Therefore, the nominal amounts for the August 2004 period are as many as they are since August 2005. And, of course, in the transitional provisions of Article 9, a very careful provision should be made that speaks, the amount of the minimum wage, the amount of the guaranteed salary referred to in Article 5 of the Act shall be valid until a new amount has been fixed by law. So we're talking about the amount. What about the law we get here? We are not only talking about the amount by this law, but we are talking about much more and we are interfering precisely with the methodology, the methodology, how we will determine this amount and who and how it should be determined. That's what this new law brings. If you really wanted to help people who received minimum wages, why didn't you come with a significantly higher amount already, why did we get this law on the table after August 2006? This is a question to which, Mr Minister, we should have a clear answer. But in this law, you bring two new substantive issues that will affect the amount. The first is to increase the minimum wage annually on 1 August for the expected increase in prices of living needs. Don’t talk any more about using any additional correction that is a more favorable indicator. And this year we have seen that economic growth is high, the growth of gross domestic product is high, and why you do not take this criterion into account in the care of people with minimum wages. Why are you taking him out? This means that this law introduces a different way of determining the minimum wage, as it has now been written in existing legislation. The second, very important content you bring is that, of course, the amount of minimum wage after consultation with the social partners is determined by the Minister. However, I have quite quoted you as saying that the amount of the minimum wage, the amount of the guaranteed salary, is valid until the law is fixed. And if we go back to the laws, we see that the minimum wage law for the period 1999-2001 states in Article 6, "the percentage for which the minimum wage is agreed shall be determined by the Economic and Social Council". We are now transforming all this by this law and transforming it into a completely different basis as it has been before. And therefore, of course, it is understandable that the social partners are concerned about these things and it is necessary to understand the veto of the State Council from this point of view, not from the point of view of you accusing him in the first sentence of the attack that the veto of the State Council is about preventing the rise of the lowest wages of workers in Slovenia, and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The poorest layer in our country. I think these charges are criminal, but at the same time, Mr. Minister, you know about your work to tell them everything. Let him do his job! I can't say it wasn't much of a story, but you know, there's a saying, thank you, but we know the sequel. So it gives others the opportunity to praise your work, because if you are the only one talking about your quality, of course, this may, for example, appear strange in public as well. And why is it so important to talk about these corrections? So, what should be taken into account in the calculation of the minimum wage, and who should co-decision on this? The opinion of the Economic and Social Council is intended to contribute to the determination of the amount. We've already shown, we've shown calculations, and today I'm going to repeat the calculations as to what the long-term consequence of this law means. I would like to reply here to all those who say, "Yes, because everything is still possible, because everything is still possible in the economic and social world!" Yes, how much more is possible in the Economic and Social Council, but when we say that only the Minister is consulted, he consults, the Minister decides, and the law sets the criteria. The law lays down the criteria as they are no longer laid down by the Economic and Social Council, and the law clearly states that it is only a matter of rising prices for living. Where are you going to talk? It's just a consultation, but the definition of the criterion is in the law, and I'm really surprised how you want to present to the public that everything is still open. No! No! It's not open anymore! Because today, if the law is confirmed, this is no longer the option. Because the minister will consult with whom he will consult, he knows. Which will be representative unions, can already be seen in this mandate when we have interpreted the union story in one way or another and the criteria for raising it are set. And we showed an analytical difference. Taking into account only the rise in prices when raising the minimum wage, we can find that EUR 500 from 2006 will increase to EUR 581 in 2013. Taking into account labour productivity, the increase of €506 in 2006 would be €628 in 2013. And if the criteria were to take into account prices and productivity, we would find that with a minimum wage of €517 in 2006, we would have reached €745. And these consequences are brought about by this law. These consequences are the result of this law! There is no more room for manoeuvre for negotiations, as the criteria for determining minimum wage growth are cemented in the law. And we just want to say that it would be necessary to take time to think about whether we are not only speaking demogosically, as it is clear to us, mainly by the opposition, but we are speaking above all. [[...]] [[A voice from the background.]] Excuse me? [[...]] Mr Pukšič, thank you, perhaps this is also the mission of the opposition, but at the same time it is possible for the opposition to draw critical and analytical attention to those bills that may have been drafted by someone in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Unfortunately, this law does not even answer this demagogic matter. I would also like to draw attention to the many statements that have been made here today and speak in itself of the attitude towards social dialogue. Because if you understand unions as someone who's just blackmailing, then it's not the right way. If unions and employers see only someone in the government who commands, then it won't be the right way either. The right path will be, in my opinion, a conversation and, to the greatest extent, an agreement. Of course, I would like you to understand today this veto of the State Council also in the light of the argument he wrote in the explanatory memorandum; therefore, it is not only that amount as such, but that it is the principles that this law brings. This law, however, brings more than just sums. Once again, I repeat, it speaks of what are the criteria for determining the minimum wage, which are very narrow and hard and allow those who will be recipients of minimum wage, lagging behind in ensuring their economic and social security, and which means that social dialogue is excluded. What is the attitude towards social dialogue that this government and this minister have, and you can easily see when you read the budget. For there is one simple item in the budget: promoting social dialogue. A very modest value of 5 million and a half is written down. In the 2007 draft amending budget, this value is broken down. So this modest value needs to be reduced by half, and at this level we also keep it in the draft budgets for the future. I think [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Excuse me? Mr President, I think you're running the session properly, and everyone who wants to do this gets a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	I apologize for these phone calls. My friend Pukšič, I'm glad you're leaving the meeting. Otherwise, and if you call again and again, I'll stop the session. If it is in the interests of the ruling parties to address this point, it cannot be proud of you. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I would only conclude with the thought that in presenting the arguments you would like to try to rethink them. To reconsider that you may also consider the proposal I made on behalf of the Group of Members, to immediately come up with a law setting out the amount of the minimum wage. The content of the rest, i.e. who, where, what criteria should be included in determining the minimum wage, should be the subject of a new law, which the Government would expect very quickly, and would be adopted by the National Assembly by June, which is, as soon as possible, sometime in the first months of the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Slovenia is on its way to a better future, in a period of prosperity for all citizens and citizens. This is not your own thanks, this is what purely concrete data is talking about. Facts: unemployment is the lowest in the period of Slovenia alone, gross domestic product is approaching the average of the European Union, inflation is record low, economic growth is as high as ever, and this data shows and influences confidence that in some foreseeable future it will no longer be necessary to ensure that all workers receive at least some payment that will be worthy and appropriate for life. Unfortunately, today's not the case. We have tens and more thousand employees who could be on some salary that would actually not be appropriate. It is therefore necessary to protect these workers, to determine which is the lowest wage for which they will work full-time. The main evidence of those who oppose this law is that social dialogue is lifted, that avoided practice is avoided, that something that is perfectly logical in other European countries is eliminated; in short, that it is trying to regulate this area by some force. But I think some people here are confusing the causes and consequences. The law, which we are considering for the second time, is due to the fact that the social partners in the dialogue were not able to find an appropriate solution. It's not enough if the dialogue's going on. Dialogue doesn't mean anything if there's no result in the end. We are talking in order to reach some agreement, and in this case an agreement could not be reached. The question is how long should this dialogue, which some are essentially putting first, take place. How long - half a year, a year, two years? I don't know. And if it's not possible to make some kind of agreement, to make some kind of solution, then it's one of the chances that it's going to work out with the law. And this law is solely due to the fact that the social partners were unable to find solutions. And today, when I'm listening to demagogy about this dialogue, I wonder if we're even aware of who they are, and how many of them depend on the solution that this law brings. We're talking about everything else here, but I just don't know if we're aware that he's waiting for a promotion, even a minimum, he's paying 10, 15, 18 thousand people. Why wait if the social partners are unable to agree on what and how long? And, of course, when some today defend this social dialogue as an institution of negotiation, we must not forget that the victims of the failure to negotiate cannot be workers, those who receive the lowest wages. And that's why I support the law as such. The law will solve this mess. Otherwise, I support social dialogue, and it is possible to find good solutions in dialogue, if, of course, these partners in this dialogue are willing to find some compromise, some acceptable solution. However, if this is not possible, then we should not play with those with the lowest wages, so it is normal that we have already supported this law in this assembly, and I will personally support it in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, I must say that I am pleased that one of the government Members said that at least some of the comments of the State Council were justified, but I believe that was not what he meant, but it was just "lapsus lingue". But if you want to find out who said that, you can also look at the magnetogram of today’s session. The law has been made by force, so that there can be populism, "better than nothing," said the one that is most in your nose in this session. I'm very sorry that defeat hurts so much, but just because a person is legitimately elected, more capable than you does doesn't mean he's a criminal or a criminal. 14 thousand recipients of minimum wage - what will you do to make them fewer? That's the question, don't refer to them! And don't say that the minimum wage can't be higher, because economic growth is low, but if we listened yesterday to how high it is. I would really like to ask the government to agree on at least one another before coming to this House. What is now: high or low, or should we adapt it to the law we adopt in this national assembly? You have to decide what the situation is in this country. And time will show whether this populist law and our current well-respected minister is truly Robin Hood for these people who receive minimum wage. And let's give it time. And I am very glad that there is a foreigner in the Slovenian language who is called demagogia, because otherwise I do not know how government Members could perform when you advocate such a law. The law has a flaw. The law is needed, but it's flawed. And these shortcomings could, if you like, be addressed. But don't jump into a trap by yourself and get caught up in lies, because that's what you're bad at defending the law. Sometimes silence is gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to start by saying that, unfortunately, my debate will not be liked, because if it were liked, then I would certainly suggest an index with which to increase the minimum wage more radically and more quickly, or I would suggest, let's say that the minimum wage from 1 August 2006 onwards should be, say, 1,000 euros. But only then would we have poverty in Slovenia! Why? Because we would lose a few thousand jobs, and practically overnight, especially in the labour intensive sectors. The minimum wage is a good instrument introduced by virtually all EU countries. How EU countries coordinate minimum wages, however, we find a response to Eurostat. I think we only believe Eurostat. If you'll excuse me for a few cases. Belgium, mode of coordination, automatic indexation and then periodic verification. Greece, annually on the basis of government inflation forecasts. Spain, automatic indexation and periodic verification. France, automatic indexing and annual verification. Dutch, twice a year. Portugal, lazily based on government inflation forecasts. Ireland, the government - on the recommendation of the social partners and the working court. The Czech Republic, the government, usually once a year. Estonia, the government, as recommended by the social partners. What about us? Yes, as stated in the second paragraph of Article 2. Let me also read this part: "The amount of the minimum wage based on that assessment and after consulting the social partners shall be determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I hope to say that the minimum wage also has a social component, which provides a full-time worker with a life worth living. And that's a good thing to say. That's good. Of course, in some ways it is difficult to understand that this social component or the more precise addition to the minimum wage is the cost of the employer, it is said that the employer is in some way implementing social policy here. It's a good triangle of employers, employees and government. I want this triangle to be as equilateral as possible. I'm sure the government has a role as worker protector here. However, too little is discussed here in this National Assembly, in my opinion, about the reasons or cases why companies should even pay an extra to the minimum wage. Unfortunately, globalisation is also on the march in Slovenia. He hits and cuts a thinner piece of bread. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including the previous one, is investing heavily in the restructuring of production, in the restructuring of the economy of course in those companies that have good programmes - if there are no programmes, this contribution is pointless. Why the restructuring? Because it is obvious that some productions, some industries, some sectors will simply not succeed in Slovenia or in the heart of Europe. Who gets the minimum wage? I'm sure even those who for health reasons who have become sick or disabled do not reach, say, working intensive industries, daily standards. But we have instruments that provide protection for workers who have such health problems in the sense that workers do not need to reach 100% of the daily standard, but, let's say, 70% and it is considered to have reached 100%. We have these instruments, and it's good to have them. Let's not close our eyes that there are no speculators, I'm not going to talk about proportions, because I don't know this information, and I'm sure they're the ones who come to work, not the ones who come to work. It must be made clear that the minimum wage is also guaranteed to those who are healthy - and thank God that they are healthy - and not attaining, now I will say again, the daily standards. This is a fact, but such a law has long been passed and this government and this coalition has no intention of amending it in this respect. Why my awkward discussion? I also want to expose employers. If you look at a company that employs a few thousand people today and that almost half of the people are on minimum wage, that means that almost half of the people have to be provided by the employer and have a cost that is called an extra to the minimum wage - then it's not easy. Simple calculations for products do not transfer better paid work. I think that by voting veto in the State Council - now I also welcome the representative of the State Council who joined us while I started the debate - I do not think that this veto vote will benefit workers or employers, anyone. It's not going to benefit the workers either, because at this time, they're already a few grand in wages. And that means a lot for those workers who have the lowest wage and who also have the lowest social position. That is why today, as proposed by the government, I will also support the law again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you for your discussion. I invite Ambassador Aleš Gulič to the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] I give my word to Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the state council! One of the tasks of the social partners is to agree on a wage policy. And within this, a minimum wage must be agreed upon and set. It is ideal if an agreement is reached and if it is reached in time that the recipients have any of these, i.e. harmonised, for an agreed percentage of the higher minimum wage. However, it has happened and is still happening that the social partners fail to agree on this issue, and this can take time, so it was necessary to propose a more lasting solution. There were two options for the social partners to remain in their position, in their own proposal, and nothing happens or interviews and attempts to reach an agreement are repeated, which does not bring a solution. Alternatively, it was possible to adopt a law or to establish, under the proposed law, the amount of the minimum wage on the basis of the expected increase in prices of living needs and after consulting the social partners, the amount of the Minister or Minister responsible for the work. The government has decided on a second option and has proposed a law to cut the Gordy knot and the minimum wage will be coordinated for the benefit of those receiving it, irrespective of whether the agreement between the social partners has not yet been reached or the talks are still under way. In order for the good 14,000 workers to receive a higher minimum wage, I will re-support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. I give my word to Maja Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister. The minister, who today explicitly said in his opening remarks that the veto has caused a great deal of trouble because, as he says, the State Council vetoed the law by preventing the lowest wages from rising for workers in Slovenia and affecting the poorest layers in our country. And how is the discussion going today? Of course, as an echo of this obvious deception by the Minister, who says, "yes and so are you when you blocked when you proposed the amendments and when you disagreed with this Messianic solution, those who receive minimum wages are affected, but now," and the coalition, of course, insists on it, "but now I will act as a savior because what you're blocking will allow" that workers will get paid at all, because otherwise they would not. In short, make a mess, don't make a marriage, don't talk to your partners, then come like Robin Hood, who says I'm paying you, because you don't want to give them, with a kind of a solution, otherwise the veto wouldn't just be given. The second deception, Mr Minister, when you said that rejection is even more unusual - rejection in the state world - because there are representatives of the social partners in the state council and because they are themselves, they have not been able to negotiate themselves and they have not been able to agree. So, not you, but they are the ones who are now guilty that the minimum wages are not harmonised or arranged as they should be. You do even more, you're obviously making the laws in force when you say that so far there has been no solution to the laws. You were told again today. However, once again, the Minimum Wages Act and the Method of Wage Coordination and the Annual Vacation Regression between 1999 and 2001 clearly state the percentage for which the minimum wage is harmonised to be determined by the Economic Social Council and further to determine, on the basis of this conclusion, the Minister responsible for the work, only then the amount. In short, it has been evident that such dialogues have taken place and have taken place legally. And you lied when you said they weren't there. So it's uncomfortable to send you into the air, to know between Slovenians and Slovenians the wrong interpretations. And then it is no wonder that dialogue or that the whole debate is misleading. For there is no doubt that within this law, not only is the minister more or less within all of your laws or government laws actually discussing two concepts of thinking. It is said that the concept of dialogue with partners, with the social or other professional public, with civil society is allowed, possible or not. And more or less, we have been facing each other for more than two years just with a solution or with a response that is not possible. In those cases, when possible, of course, it will be erased when, for example, it is legally permissible. I don't know, typical, from yesterday's case or yesterday's case, Kobile Lipica. Is it the profession that by law can affect certain solutions or not? Yes, it does. The law says that it is, but it breaks, it degrades, it organizes its statement, and then it paves the way for the bulldozer. That's how you do it. You're going with a bulldozer because it's Slovenia, and where we're going with a bulldozer - into a better future. You're sending a working class to heaven. But what paradise, when it does not even have to pay for boats to the Adriatic island or tickets to these famous megalaxies in the Hajdin prater, is the new Slovenian prater, which translates from Vienna to Hajdino. That paradise is it. This is a better future when we all climb to the top of Triglav. We don't have to talk about minimum wage anymore, we heard about it today. There will be no minimum wage then, because there will be a working class in paradise. And why, Mr. Minister, is such a fear of essentially as poor solutions as have been given in this bill? It's not a big deal. It's not a commitment like it used to be in this criminalized past. It's just an opinion. It is only a matter of partnership, as was adopted at the previous hearing. But that's what you're afraid of. You're afraid of dialogue, too. You are also afraid of an opinion that is non-binding and does not block at all - a thousand times to be said - does not block anything if there is no opinion. Why is there such a fear of one opinion? Because trade unions are not so poor, because the economic and social world is not some tiny spine that can be broken, just as you have broken everything almost in order, which has been on the road so far. Unions mean street, unions mean power and unions can't be replaced, Mr. Minister, even though you're saying that what you're going to represent workers if the unions aren't going to do what you think they should do. Syndicate means great, intense dialogue. They mean a strong interlocutor. If you're not a part of it, and if you're afraid of being on the street, of course, then you're writing laws like that, and it's no wonder that you know something else is going on, that this opposition is happening. And tomorrow, there'll be another street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you, too. There's a MEP with a word. Franz Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Today we hear practically all day only about social dialogue and nothing else. We are hearing about the inability of the Minister to conduct social dialogue. I don't believe it. That's what the numbers are talking about. This is the number of acts adopted, the number of laws adopted in 2005 and 2006. Let me just list some. In 2005, 17 acts were coordinated and adopted among the social partners. It's regulations, programs, laws. Eight such acts have been adopted so far in 2006 and all have been coordinated among the social partners. They weren't just three. And what the Minister has already said about the composition of the world in the law on pension and disability insurance and the law on employment and unemployment insurance. These were not coordinated. Then talk about the inability to negotiate, but the inability to coordinate is, I think, just too much after all. After all this work the Minister is doing, and Minister Drobnic is aware that it is necessary to negotiate. This is, after all, part 2 of the law that we are re-declaring today. The second paragraph speaks of it. The amount of the minimum wage on the basis of that assessment is based on the price of the expected price growth, without being the only criterion, but on the basis of an assessment of the cost of living growth and after consultation with the social partners, the Minister shall determine. This is exactly what was adopted after the consultation. This supplement was adopted on the basis of a proposal from the Social Democrats. I think that's when we supported him most of the time. I think it is a good thing that such a thing, which, in itself, comes from all international conventions, is also recorded in the law. The next thing we had to talk about today was the minimum wage. There's no minimum wage from today. The minimum wage as we now know has been fixed in 2004. In 2004, it was when the opposition gentlemen ruled you. Why didn't you then set the minimum wage of 150 grand? I think we'd all like to give you a round of applause. I'm asking you, why? And now to be appalled at how low this minimum wage is. We haven't fixed the minimum wage yet. It's exactly the way you accepted it. More than once today, it has also been mentioned that capital owners are the ones who are blocking this thing somewhere. Yes, who owns the capital with us in Slovenia? Let's take a look 15 years ago. Whose was everything? It was all ours and those who managed to privatize, some say, "accept" those are capital owners. I do not believe that some Members or members of New Slovenia are more visible among capital owners. I don't believe it. Why was the veto adopted? I can't understand it either. For those from 15 to 20 thousand workers and workers on minimum wage, no. That kind of veto doesn't help them. If we had adopted a law or if we had not adopted a veto and the law had already been in force, these employees could have received at least a little more money. That way they won't get him. That is why I, and everyone in our group, will once again support this law, because we think it is high time that we adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Milan M. Squill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! Nice greeting from the Slovenian public! What is happening today in this national assembly is, of course, a great duplicity. Mr Minister started by saying that the state council, with a veto on the law, prevented the lowest wages of workers from rising and affected the poorest layers in our country. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. This is and will be done by the adoption of the law, because the minimum wage should only be raised for the price increase envisaged by the government itself as one of the three pillars when determining the state budget. To say the following, Mr Minister, that the social partners in the adoption of the law had no comments but was a pure lie. Indeed, the Economic and Social Council, in opposition to your Undersecretary of State, has proposed a dictatorship acceptable to them. That the Economic Social Council has the option of influencing the height of the minimum wage raise. And what we are talking about today is actually the content of discussions about what kind of prosperity we want in Slovenia. Someone said today that Slovenia was going to a future where it would be a state of prosperity. I repeat, and I will prove with data: This will be a state of prosperity only for some. And lifting dialogue on such an important issue as raising minimum wage growth is unacceptable. It is unacceptable that the Council of State finds substantively that the law adopted does not preserve the real value of the minimum wage and that it will affect those who have the most importance in maintaining the real value of the minimum wage. Most importantly, at a time when we are adopting tax legislation in this National Assembly, which gives them nothing, it takes them by raising prices due to the multiple effects of what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing. The Council of State therefore correctly warns that what is missing in the law is a safeguard. This protector would, of course, be the consent of the Economic Social Council. And let's see the numbers. What are we talking about today? After you have rejected all comments made by members of the opposition this week by members of the ruling coalition in order to otherwise pass the Income Act, you are by this law, tonight it will be adopted, giving the small group about 38 billion. What is proposed by the Economic and Social Council. And it's a proposed fuse and these fuses can have different shapes. But the key form is, of course, not only to take into account the expected price growth, but to the extent that the expected price growth is higher or to the extent that the results of gross domestic product growth are better, then it is right to share our prosperity fairly. And the minimum wage law, which would have a guardian to give economic social council consent, would be a law to ensure that in Slovenia we have a fair distribution of prosperity, not that this country will be a state of prosperity only for some. And that's for those who will receive $35 billion with the Income Act today. There are some students, students at the gallery - we take student benefits. Can you not get upset? To them, who will go looking for jobs and get a minimum wage first, we will add 2 percentage points to the year. But you have distributed 35 billion to those who control you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. What would we do with the law in the way proposed by the State Council? The existing escalation would cost the Slovenian economy 432 million for 18,000 workers. The proposed escalation would cost the economy 650 million. If you compare 38 billion to 650 million, you'll see that this is 80 times less than we're going to give one small group. And we're talking about this in this National Assembly, whether we're going to give the 10,000 to the 38 billion and whether we're willing to give the group 18,000 additional 180 million. And you don't want to. You say this will have a negative impact on the economy, but you forget that the Council of State is composed of representatives of the economy. And that people in companies know that, as much as the pressure of those who are in the most difficult situation - and the pressure will be when prices rise due to the introduction of VAT and all the nonsense you do this week in tax legislation - these economists will have the biggest problems. Therefore, they want to come with a guardian in the law to the Economic and Social Council and say, the economy has the opportunity to increase the minimum wage. You don't give these guards. Therefore, to say by the minister that the Council of State acted in an unusual and two-faced manner is mere seduction. You work two-faced here because you don't want to give the law 650 million when you give the same week 35 billion. We will vote on this tonight. Maybe it'll just be half an hour apart. First you're going to reject the veto and prevent people from getting 650 million, then you're going to split "hands and hats" 38 billion tolars! This is not funny to me, Members of the ruling coalition. It's tragic for me. Let me remind you that one of the key political dilemmas that is taking place in the European Union is the question of whether we will preserve the country of prosperity in the European Union and whether it will be a state of prosperity for all. With the laws you propose and the laws you oppose them - in this case the veto of the State Council - you create prosperity only for some. Today the minimum wage is €490 in Slovenia. If you reject the veto of the state council, it will increase by 2% per year over the next 8 years and will reach EUR 581 and 47 cents in 2013. Slovenia has a goal, Mr Janša, in a brochure that cost 700 million tolars, by the way, and Banka Slovenije is sending us home calculators for 1 euro calculator, which will also cost us several hundred million, said that in 2013 we should reach 100% of the European Union. The people who will have €581 and €47 in 2013 will be around 70% of the EU. We are today at 80% of the EU. And so, of course, if a different fuse were to take into account productivity growth, taking into account GDP growth and calculating it, then the minimum wage from 2005 490 to 2013 would increase to 750 euros, 700 to be accurate, 45 euros and 93 cents. The difference of €170 per month, times 12 times, is calculated. The question is very banal: Are we ready for the minimum wage in Slovenia in 2013 to be three quarters of a thousand euros - I will say so or if you want - 750 euros? Or that it will remain at 70% of European level and will be below Greece's level today, below Spain's level today, etc.? Luxembourg has a minimum wage of EUR 1500. That's why the bus driver earns between 3,000 and 4,000 euros. He's not on minimum wage. Of course, the Luxembourgers say that this affects the competitiveness problem. Of course, Luxembourg is succeeding with a different type of industry with the knowledge industry. But of course, the conditions for raising the lower level, the conditions for allowing, of course, in the Income Act, people to have an opportunity to invest in books, in tuition, etc., but not as you voted against these amendments yesterday because you don't want people with knowledge. To discuss that the minimum wage in Slovenia should be EUR 581 in 2013 and to say that this is, I don't know, in accordance with macroeconomic criteria and I don't know what criteria, is purely misleading. The government has a problem how to share only theirs. That's why I object. We propose that, of course, the escalation would be different so that the escalation would be as proposed by the State Council, so that the escalation would take into account that the real value of wages is guaranteed, so that the escalation would take into account that the assets created by Slovenia are also shared with those who have the least. But it's not like you've reduced your income burden by 20% to the richest. We don't give them anything. This is a duplicity, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. I know you don't know that and you have a problem. But anyone who knows the exele can calculate these numbers. The budget memorandum is in Parliament and the budget memorandum records how this unfortunate minimum wage will be raised. Since Article 2 states that this is the basis for the preparation of the State budget. Mr Bajuk and New Slovenia gentlemen said in your pre-election programme that you would reduce public spending by about a quarter. From 45 to 35% of gross domestic product. That's about 700 billion tolars among the brothers. This requires limiting the increase of all kinds of public-financial spending. This index, which is negative, would be used to raise the minimum wage. It's a mix-up. Mr Janša said on Monday, when I told him about the case of the single woman Bullet, that it was a duality to give her first by raising the general tax relief of 3 euros, and all of you who are sitting upstairs will no longer be able to give about 4% of your income per year to reduce the income base so that you can buy your own apartments - and the singles of Bullets first give 3 euros and then take 30 euros. Mr Janša said on Monday that I am confusing the notion that I am mixing social policy and tax policy. I'm sorry, but what you're doing today is agreeing that the minimum wage is designed according to the criteria under which public-financial spending is formed means that Mr Janša mix. And you're all mixing social policy and budget planning and you're doing it. Article 2 of the Act states that the minimum wage is fixed for the expected price increase, blah, which is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the basis for the preparation of the national budget. The minimum wage is a social adjustment and the minimum wage has therefore been different in previous mandates. It took into account price increases, took into account the level of rise in average wages and took into account the growth of gross domestic product. And if this were to remain, it would be €750 in 2014. It's not like that. Because you are mixing social policy with budgetary policy and because Mr Drobnic has submitted himself to his party chief, Mr Bajuk. Mr Bajuk, of course, has problems drawing up the budget. Therefore, it is always conservative to go down in assessing price growth. Unfortunately, prices will be higher. So, of course, what the State Council says is that the law does not have a guardian. Since the law does not have a fuse, there will be growth, the minimum wage will fall in real terms. He will, of course, support the veto of the State Council. The veto of the State Council, which is represented by two of the three partners, is the only way in Slovenia after two years of Janša's rule of government to maintain a pinnacle of economic social dialogue. Thank God you gentlemen are coming from the economy, Mr Ljublješek. Thank you very much. The economy in the economic social world has said that it is possible to harmonise minimum wages differently than what Mr Bayuk and Mr Drobnič agreed. Maybe Mr. Janša didn't even see it, but he can't blame it. There's no way to blame him for mixing the terms on Monday and mixing them today. For the sake of two of the three social partners, the Council of State played its part in the economic and social dialogue. I also suggest that the government listens to it so that the government can listen to it, Mr Minister, but first it is necessary to familiarise itself with the facts and to ask the ruling coalition here in the National Assembly to support the veto, allowing you to really talk. And then, Mr. Minister, since you are the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you are not the Minister of Finance, you are not the Minister of Budget, please, some of your own spines. And to the Minister of Finance, even though he is the head of your party, please say that it is more important to maintain economic and social dialogue than to close the budget. Budgets will only close in the long run if the economy works well. And conflicts between employers and employees due to the minimum wage are not exactly in favour of the good functioning of the economy. Therefore, discuss with the Minister of Economy and convince the Minister of Finance to be more kind to you, of course. I myself assess that, if there were economic social dialogue between the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who each properly understands their role, the Minister of Social Affairs, too, would, of course, find a different formula very quickly. But if you don't want to do that, of course we will have a government that will have very different proposals at each meeting of the National Assembly. And today, this week we're talking about it. I'll conclude, $35 billion is paid by Mr. Janša. We want to give, we want to give a small group 650 million. Make your own decisions, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. Before I give my word to the other Members and Members of Parliament, allow me to see my disapproval earlier when I wanted to limit my colleague Jerovsk's debate, which is why I did not limit my colleagues' debates to the same rules for everyone, both government and opposition Members. I saw two hands. Does that mean procedural suggestions? Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural proposal. First of all, I would like to welcome the students of the Faculty of Biotech from Ljubljana and somehow apologize that some of my colleagues, such as the previous debater, are using respected students for their tools. Mr Vice-President, I would only suggest that you really direct the debate in the future. In fact, it is a total deception of the Slovenian public. As far as the law on income is concerned, the link is very strong with the state budget. Speaking of minimum wage, it has nothing to do with the state budget. Mr. Squeakle says, "You don't hope to give 650 million." It's a cost, I'll say, a humanitarian, human cost of employers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	My colleague Horvat, look, the time that will remain available, I think he will give it about 30 minutes' time to discuss it with Members and Members. I have accepted your procedural proposal to welcome you here, which is very nice of you. At this point, we will continue with the debaters on the list. That's why I'm giving my word to my colleague Rudy Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Nice greetings for me, too! So much deception, demagogies and the sale of fog in this House, I don't think we've heard it before. See, we are always talking about social dialogue on such and different dialogues. However, we need to know that dialogue is only possible when all negotiators are also ready to step back. But if one of the negotiators doesn't want to do that, then the dialogue is no longer possible. And I understand, Mr. Minister, that it came to the fact that just one of the negotiators didn't want to step back. The only normal reaction was that what happened happened. The law is given to Parliament, and we are about to make a second decision on this law. How social coordination has been carried out and agreements in the past, I will just demonstrate to you on the basis of data. In fact, we have heard that by 2004, these discussions had been conducted in an exemplary manner, and we have come to an exemplary alignment of 44.1% of the average wage in Slovenia. I really don't get it. Why have we not already reached the percentages that someone before me has quoted, for example, in Belgium, where this percentage is 47, in the Netherlands, the same or even in Malta, where this percentage is 56.2, we have not come. I say that this minimum wage is supposed to be just some kind of security guard in the future. Any smart employer will not pay the workers at minimum wage because he knows that the disgruntled worker produces poor results. Someone before me has already said, we are in a phase of transition, but this transition takes so many and so many years. I think it'll be over sooner or later. These great giants, who in the past have actually represented, have been driven by this minimum wage to be or not to be. Now I think that the transformation is so far away that it is actually supposed to be the fuse when fewer people or employers are supposed to come to this, not anymore. I honestly think it's going this way. Once again, an economy with a certain perspective that has a vision will not pay for a minimum wage. With regard to duality, which has been very prominently put forward, I will ask my distinguished colleagues who had so much of this duality to say that we voted here in this House on October 18th, and I see that there were 70 votes in 71. And also that respectable gentleman who talked about how it would be today will vote differently. In the meantime, I did not get any other argument in order to change my mind. I don't know. Maybe this other guy got something. The situation that we are in today is indeed such that we should finally ensure that the minimum wage supplement is provided to the people who are actually most needed and let us stop pretending here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you, too. I invite Mr. Anton Rozman, representative of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I also thank all the debaters for a very fruitful and varied debate, but in the end a few words. The Council of State adopted the proposed veto unanimously. I wouldn't teach you the composition of the state council. However, such different interests unanimously accepted something. But it certainly means something. And the basic offense that has been raised by many is that the minimum wage instrument is the instrument that should be agreed upon by the social partners in the future. Of course, the social partners in such a way that they can be agreed on, but not in such a way that such obstacles cannot be put to the test. If we continue to look at heights, of course we are very concerned about falling behind essentially in the years ahead with the minimum wage with the starting point I mentioned earlier. That's 58% in processing. We'll be behind. 2% is too low. The increase in the cost of living is an assessment. No one mentioned it today. We're introducing over, I don't know, 60 and a few days. Everywhere in Europe where the euro was introduced, there was a rapid rise in the cost of living. I'm sure it'll happen again. This minimum wage will in fact mean even less in purchasing power. There was a lot of emphasis on how companies, "uno", third, forward. The minimum wage will not destroy any Slovenian company. Minimum wage is not an obstacle. Obstacles are incompetent directors, incompetent management, unfair business decisions, of course an uncompetitive environment and the conditions in which they are still working. I appreciate the efforts that are in this direction to improve all of this and it will take some time. Unfortunately, for some of the transitions, it has not yet been completed and will take some time. Therefore, it is significantly smarter for those companies that are in this, in some way, to help keep, because we have no other choice. The rest of what has been said today is likely to be evolving too slowly. And Slovenia cannot become Luxembourg overnight. However, I think the route towards Luxembourg is correct. At the beginning of the debate, someone mentioned that our minimum salary was greater than, I don't know, Lithuania, Latvia, but not to mention. I do not think that we are an example of Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia, future members of Romania, Bulgaria. I personally imagine Slovenia at the club of those countries that are at a significantly higher level. Well, that's the end of it. Given the fact that the spears are being broken primarily on the minister's side, the referee proposed essentially a marriage. I would also appeal to the Minister to take the weaker side in these proceedings, because the weaker one needs a law supported by capital and the stronger ones choose it for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Since we have about time left. 30 minutes and on the basis of Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I will initiate a procedure for additional debaters. I'm asking you to sign up. Please. Every debater gets 2 minutes 42. First of all, he has the word of Ambassador Majda Potrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I would like to take another look at the debate on re-decision on the minimum wage law. There's been a lot of talk, and there's been a lot of demagogism. The law we are talking about has been dealt with with with by a large degree of dissuasiveness on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs by emergency procedure, although, if we are looking purely at business, it should not be dealt with in an urgent procedure, at an emergency meeting, pardon, however, should not be dealt with. I do not know how many times I should say that both the international organisation of work and the European Commission adopted a recommendation in 1995 that the statutory minimum wage be set in full agreement with the social partners. And it is for me, if you ask your respectable colleagues from the coalition, when voting, when re-voting, that two of the three social partners agree that the law does not bring solutions that they could say are in full agreement with the social partners. I'm afraid not. And I think that we should take into account what has now been said by the proposer in the end. We should have a feeling about social things for someone who's weaker. As you said at your second reading last time, different harmonisation of minimum wages would be disastrous for the economy. That's when we heard on the board that the recipients of the minimum wage were $18,000. There was a speech today about 14,000. At that time, it has been said, and it is now said that this cannot affect economic performance differently than it does. That if the workers are satisfied with their payment, they will do better. It's not like they're gonna get paid worse. But, excuse me, we will also decide today on the determination and coordination of social transfers, and then you think about what we are doing today. We do unacceptable things. 735 tolars per month will align the minimum wage. A little more would be done if the real growth of living needs were coordinated. And if they say quickly yes, twice yes, we'll take it here twice quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to argue. Because, as has already been heard, we unanimously adopted this law in the previous debate. No one was against it, and my colleague Squeakle voted in favour. However, I want to take advantage of this rest of the time when I listened to today's debate and there has been a lot of political demagogies and I want to take advantage of this rest of the time and give my opinion and position. Comparing the minimum wage with the prize of a member of the Supervisory Board is pure political demagogy. And I'm surprised that colleague Kumer didn't compare minimum wages to his salary. The minimum wage is not something new, it is now and it will be in the future. It is important, however, to whom we compare it - whether we compare it with China or compare it with Switzerland or compare it with neighbours, Croatia or Austria. The minimum wage is mainly due to the past situation. And who was in power in the past? The gentlemen who debated today, or the gentleman who debated, were also, as I know, the Prime Minister. Why didn't the previous authorities try to make these minimum wages higher? I think the minimum wage will always be the same and never will be the same. Social systems survive when wages are virtually the same. I am particularly surprised at why such pessimism by opposition colleagues and colleagues, the pessimism that has been heard today and in the past days. I'd say it's not pessimism, but it's really political demagogy, which I'm increasingly convinced of. I want and expect us not to collect political points on minimum wages, but to focus on discussions that will accelerate the development and prosperity of Slovenia. So, as I said, minimum wages have been, are and will, are due to good work or bad work, are successful or unsuccessful societies. And Slovenia is on the path of a successful European country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Today, we no longer hear the readings we heard earlier when we tried to argue that such an increase in the minimum wage is conditional on certain industries not to bear the increased burden of such an increase. Today, numbers have been re-presented, and all those who take this issue seriously see that the decision of the State Council, on the one hand, where employers and on the other hand, are faced with a consensus on this decision, say that a different agreement would be possible. What do we want to tell you today when we talk about this law? We would like to tell you, given the existing ratio of minimum wage to other wages, that the law that we reaffirm today introduces criteria that are different from the criteria currently in force. And these criteria speak of a 2% increase in terms of the cost of living. Today, I have reiterated that there will be a gap between nominal wage growth, which the Prime Minister also said would be 5%. And when we talk today about the ratio of minimum wage to other wages, to other wages, it is also important to ask, perspectiveally, whether these minimum wages are actually going to become even more minimal in relation to other wages in the future. That's what we're talking about today. And in order for this not to happen, it is also reasonable to listen to the request of the State Council, which speaks of a dialogue that must be conducted, which can often be difficult, not being conducted in such a way as not to give an arbitral minister a decision on minimum wage, and that the social partners should participate in the establishment of minimum wage, as they have so far participated in. They are now assigned a role only in the sense that the Minister will consult with them. And these are the points of this marriage, because the state world has given us another chance. All of us who have voted in favour of this law in the past have voted with one conviction, better than nothing. But today we re-evaluate what this better than nothing means in terms of perspective. We have made some proposals today. Today, Members and Members, we have a re-thinking ahead of us, and we will have a decision to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues! Such a topic as today's minimum wage, and even if it is broadcast by national television 2, is commendable for the opposition because it is its job to demagogise and not perform any other work. In addition, of course, from the opposition we have enough experience, you can do otherwise, but you have decided to do so. But the truth is somewhere else. What's written in Article 3 of the 2% minimum wage law doesn't say because this minister or this government invented it. But it does because it says so in Umar. If, colleagues and colleagues, you're not too afraid about minimum wages, but you're so far behind average wages, say "mea maxima culpa". It's our fault, we've been in power for 12 years, that's why. That's why we brought the economy to the brink of bankruptcy, and thank God that this has changed something, and let us tell you from this coalition that we're not going to have to pay this minimum wage for 2%, even for 3, and for 4, if the costs are going to go up, we're going to raise it, but it has to be written in Umar inside. We will not demagogulate or exploit young people or national television for this, as the predecessors have done before. We can truly say that we finally once have a minister for work, family and social, a law minister in the right place. If anyone has done anything, this minister has done a great deal in this government. And who did he do it for? For these citizens and citizens, and thank you, Minister, this is how we need to proceed. But it's true that if I didn't do it, and we couldn't raise that 2% because the social partners, because they're unionizing and everything else, don't want to agree. They just don't want to, and they just don't want to. But of course, they're pushing through the state world, they're doing double figures. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. It's overpriced. Our concern and concern for the government coalition is to rule and do good for these people. And thank you, Minister, that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	I believe that Mr Pukšič does not believe himself. The numbers are hard, the numbers are really hard. To the extent that, of course, what has been proposed, if the consent of the economic social partner, as long as, of course, according to the proposal of the State Council, it retains the real value of wages and, of course, of the guardian, then with the amended law, if we vote in veto, the minimum wage will increase from EUR 490 to EUR 750. Because of what Mr Pukšič believes, you believe the others, you will be against a minimum wage of 170 Euros. That's what we're saying on a monthly basis. It's a very simple thing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimated that there are so much assets in the Slovenian economy that it can be given to a group at an annual level of 38 billion. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimated that there are not enough assets in the Slovenian economy to give another even larger group of 18 000 to 650 million. That's all this is about. You're not willing to give 80 times less to a group of 18 grand, but you want to give them 120 times less, because you need to save some money, I suppose, in order to tax the economy more. What's gonna happen? When you adopt a minimum wage law, Slovenian companies will have about 200 million costs less money. This money will move in the form of prizes for members of the board, members of the Supervisory Board and for the payment of the tax. Since the Slovenian economy is 100% more taxed than it was, of these 200 million will go from about 80 to 100 million to either rewards or taxes. That's what you're gonna do. Instead of raising the minimum wage. Instead of ensuring that people have minimum wages at the end of 2013 750 euros. You don't want this, but you share money with a very narrow group of people, so it's not a fair distribution of wealth. That is why we oppose this law. We will support the veto of the state council.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. I'd like to say something because we're actually listening to some demagogy and a very, very poor professional knowledge of numbers. Luxembourg was mentioned to have a minimum wage of EUR 1500. If we add that it has 3.15 times more GDP than Slovenia, the minimum wage in Luxembourg is higher than in Slovenia. It just proves what we're saying and how unprofessional we're driving. The minimum wage is the one the employer has to pay to the employees. I have one fact to point out here. About eight years ago, this minimum wage was written in this Regulation for normal work results. At that time, however, this sentence was deleted; the real minimum wage must be paid regardless of whether someone does something or does nothing. And practically this correction applies only to those who are for a certain period of time in the service who cannot be given anywhere and are practically taken or are in companies that are in real trouble. That's the minimum that has to be paid. It is also used to a large extent by some others who use it to pay the State as little as possible, even if they create more in their businesses, to pay themselves or their employees a minimum wage. It's a formal official part, and informally, it's another thing. So that I think that this debate is irrelevant, that this basis needs to be raised and not mixed together in this matter. That's the situation. However, it would be good to think back on the proposal of these various other steps, and to return this correction that it is the salary that the employer must pay to the worst-paid worker who has done at least something. That would be right and right for the world to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Once again, I would just like to reinforce how this social dialogue has actually been carried out and the adoption of this minimum wage. Look, I have a letter from the Free Trade Union. It says it in point five, and it says it on day 27.9. However, at the 4.10. meeting unanimously, once again, we have adopted this proposal for a law. It reads: "The Presidency of Unions commits representatives in the National Assembly to submit a procrastination veto to the National Assembly in the event of the adoption of the proposed new law on minimum wage." That is, I think, sufficiently said that there was no desire for any coordination or step back. So I fully understand the only possible move that was made is that the minister came before us with this law. And once again, we've all confirmed and adopted this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In my opening debate, I have expressed my belief that this government is trying to make a triangle, workers, employers and government a truly equilateral triangle. So all three of them in this triangle are kind of balanced. And the government has actually put itself here as some kind of protector, yes, the worst, so the workers. There was a lot of confusion in the discussions today. There was a talk on income, which must have a direct impact on the state budget. There was a talk about 650 million, as if this coalition didn't want to give them if the minimum wage was increased. The minimum wage, it's not a cost or an outflow of the state budget, I guess that's clear to everyone. I'd like to say it again. My debate was not, and this time it is not. I'm sure he would have liked it if he said that the minimum wage should be raised each year for an issued index or that we should start with August 1, 2006, say, 1,500 euros, as was one of the proposals. Yeah, but let's look at some industries. Let's look at the labour intensive industry. Those who propose this, I suggest that they go to one of our textile factories to say and propose that it is a minimum wage, I don't know, 1,000 euros, but unfortunately they must take the key to closing this factory. And only then does the loss of jobs start with poverty. There's a problem. I do not allow some Members to gloat over the potential misery of perhaps 20,000 Pomours who would possibly be on the road if they were unwise to raise the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the debate on this subject is quite interesting and important. The question of which one it is impossible to agree, which is why I will vetoly support how the relationship is regulated if there is no agreement between the social partners. I think that this issue and this problem that could arise could be solved substantially differently. The minister and this government are saving him in a classic authoritarian way. If they don't agree, we'll intervene. Modern forms of governance and public affairs are familiar with many other forms, such as the conciliation or reconciliation mechanism, where partners can continue to agree on 10, 12 prominent individuals and put decisions into their hands. We could set up an arbitration system, formalize the system in pre-arbitral bodies and similar matters as in some other spheres. No, it's important that the state responds authoritarianly if they don't agree with you. And they'll take care of you less and less. Why? Because everyone will count on it to be easier to convince the government or parliament by lobbying than the other partner. Such arrangements will therefore be increasingly limited. That's bad. We all know that the issue of minimum wage is a sensitive question that is a question of two kinds. For the first time, the economic issue is that too much wages are being cut off from jobs at all. Too low a salary, and especially too low a minimum wage creates apathy and some kind of, you might say, economic disintegration. This is linked to the question of social justice, which is considered to be fair and still possible to be achieved in a society. Therefore, in these matters, the government cannot intervene in the way it wishes to intervene. In addition, I would like to point out that I find this extremely unusual or understandable discomfort or even anger to the debate of my colleague Brickle, who has shown that this debate cannot be led beyond the other measures that the government is taking and is carrying out and that we will not allow ourselves to set up raincoats and debates as in some first class, just a point or just a matter that a friend puts to us, say, a table. We're not gonna let that happen. And I'd say that I'm slowly getting a lot of readings about demagogy. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Right from the ones who are most involved in this demagogy. As a fellow Member who spoke before me, my colleague Puksic, who has not in fact moved from being a Member now [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I will try to point out some of the deceptions that have been made by my colleagues today, especially by the opposition. It was said that no amendments had been adopted. That's not true. The amendment of the Social Democrats was adopted. And I thought it was right that this amendment had been adopted. A colleague of mine spoke of 700 tolars raising this minimum wage. That's not true. It's 2%, 2,500, 2,500, 2%. Yes, and now I'm correcting your mistake. Yeah, that's it. And as far as the vote is concerned. We all know that almost everyone has supported this law. And I'm surprised that they suddenly experienced a negative conversion, they became from Peter Soul.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I had no intention of calling at this point in today's session. But since so many words were spoken at that time, so many lies, so many manipulations, I felt obliged to come forward. In particular, so that those on the minimum wage will really get the right picture so that everything that has been said here will not be distorted. A colleague of mags. I really have to argue with the drill. And I had the idea that today we could just give him or raise him to a doctor of manipulation and seduction of the political public. If we stand up, we know why the minimum wage is, what the minimum wage is, who has it, why it's what it is today. Let us just ask ourselves this question and answer ourselves a lot less unnecessary words here in the national assembly. But the Minister of Labour is not worth listening to. But the words the minister says are a lie. Yeah, I don't know. I think it's weird. And it is a lie that the social partners failed to agree to raise the minimum wage on their own. If the minister helped, I would say if it was at the request that things, that this minimum wage could be raised, succeeded and prepared the law itself, because the social partners themselves failed to agree. And what's going to happen in 2013? I'd suggest you open up a science agency. I think our government is doing very well right now, that the economy is making good progress, that it is developing well. Such sightings must be misleading. Nowhere is it said that the social partners will not be able to agree on a faster and higher minimum wage increase if possible. All I can say is that anyone who votes against the law today, against the adoption of the law, will be against raising the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I should probably read the minutes of the Economic and Social Council from the outset, as it said, the minutes of the 147th meeting of the Economic and Social Council: "The minutes of the 146th meeting of the Economic and Social Council were adopted with the comment of mags. "Semolits that the various minutes are complemented by the initiative of the Free Trade Union, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, or its Minister, to determine or propose a new amount of minimum wage, given that this was done last year." Minister, he's ordering us to determine that. Did you see that? They asked for me, and you're a social dialogue. The minimum wage was discussed between employers and employees. The government wasn't involved here. And because they didn't reach agreement, they asked me to ask the government to do whatever it takes to be valorized, and we did. Who was the one who did not agree, probably not the employers, because they did not agree to raise any wages, and in this case the government and the minister put themselves on the side of the workers and I am not ashamed to admit it. As I have repeatedly pointed out, it seemed unfair to me because I felt that this was unfair. Well, it's pretty clear which side I'm on. There is no agreement on such laws anywhere in the world. It must be given by the Economic and Social Council or the social partners. It always says "consulted," and it's very nice to have a consensus. That's what I say. But if it doesn't come, then we need to figure out what the consequences are. And that's what we figured out. The notorious fact is that, as of August, minimum wages are not coordinated and, on this basis, minimum transfers are also made. Therefore, I appeal to you to accept that at least in due course valorisation will be carried out and that the lowest wages will be raised, so that we will not be drawn there until December, so that even Christmas will not be valorisation. That's why I'm calling for you to confirm that. Of course, that's your power, your decision. For starting wages, please appeal as a national assembly, as well as as as a minister, to ensure that social partners, employers and employees are able to raise their starting wages in order to ensure decent salaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, within a half hour of the end of the 18th item of the agenda or no later than 20.20 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Dear Members and Members! The grey economy is an phenomenon that we find on different scales in all countries and economies. The consequences of the grey economy can be severe and showcase in various areas, from lack of confidence in the legal system, tax and contribution cuts, unequal population burdens and increased labour costs, increasing the possibility of losing legal employment and reducing the possibility of legal employment of the unemployed, increased abstention and could also be listed. That's why all countries are fighting black work. However, most countries have taken action against the grey economy with two groups of measures: repressive and legislative measures and improved legal employment opportunities. The proposals of this law, which you are considering, are also directed in the same way. The provision of the amended third paragraph of Article 5 will make such a strong contribution to the reduction of black employment, under which it is assumed that there is an indefinite working relationship for the unemployed person caught in black employment. Such a provision, according to our assessment, will have a preventive effect on employers, as the labour relationship will be established under the law itself, without the possibility that the court will at all determine the existence of elements of the labour relationship. Therefore, employers will think that it is better not to work in black because if an inspector detects such a worker, it will be extremely difficult and with possible complications to break the working relationship with him. Secondly, in practice, there are a number of cases where other persons are employed or even employed without a student service fee, the amendments to the law provide that such cases are also regarded as black employment, which will also affect the reduction of employment in black. Now, however, I am focusing on another set of proposals, which somehow allows for more flexible employment. At the same time as they tighten solutions in this area, the amendment of the law makes it possible for some work to be done legally. Therefore, there are additional exceptions to black employment. The first is a short-term job, and the second is a small job. For short-term work, work is carried out in family companies with a maximum of 10 employees and carried out free of charge by the nearest relatives or spouses of the owner or co-owner of the company, with an additional limit of 40 hours per month. But the second form is a little bit of work. This is an exception to black employment, whereby even by the example of Germany legal work is allowed for a maximum of 20 hours a week or 40 hours a month if the payment for this work does not exceed 50% of the minimum wage. Where there are further conditions that a person is not in a full-time employment relationship, that he does not carry out a separate activity and that he does not receive a pension. Such work is not a work relationship, but is subject to a special contract with the elements laid down in the law. However, both types of work must be implemented in accordance with the individual provisions of the Labour Relations Act on child labour, working time, night work, rest and rest, women's protection and safety and health regulations at work. The law is coordinated primarily by law, i.e. by amendments to the Law on Offences, the Law on Economic Companies and by certain other provisions that have changed at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you, Minister. The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee as the parent labour body was considered by law. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the Committee's reports.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The parent working body, as Mr President said, was dealt with at the 19th regular meeting of 5.10. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspect, and in this regard also made a number of specific comments on Articles 4, 5, 6 and 12. The opinion was also forwarded by the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities, which supported and proposed the addition of Article 7, which was summarised in accordance with the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Committee also received comments from Pergamum, the Confederation of Unions of Slovenia, the Union of Free Trade Unions and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. No amendments to qualified applicants were submitted within the time limit. On the basis of a legislative and legal opinion, the expert services of the Committee, in cooperation with the proposer, have drafted amendments to the amendments to the Committee, by which we have corrected the draft law in the sense of a legislative and legal opinion. The most debate on the question of the examination of an individual article took place by the members of the Committee at Articles 5, 6 and 7. In particular, the view was expressed that the introduction of a small part institution was at issue both from a systemic and a substantive point of view. According to some discussers, it is inappropriate that the law, the subject of which is intended to prevent work and employment on the line, introduces a legal basis for an atypical form of work. The setting up of a specific form of work in the proposed law is necessary non-systemically, as it cuts labour and legal matter and would be more subject to the regulation of such a issue in the Labour Relations Act. They also considered the proposed solution to be problematic from a substantive point of view, since, in the case of small work, it is a special contract which is not supposed to be a contract of employment, although it has all the elements of a fixed-term working relationship with shorter working hours. The question was also raised: What will happen to the people who will conclude this contract and are registered at the Employment Service? The representative of the applicant explained that the calculation of social security rights is also an anology with a fixed-term working relationship, but not for a fixed-term working relationship, but only for the calculation. There has also been a considerable debate on the issue of the Institute of Short-term Work and also in the debate on Article 7 of the Law proposal, with the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to register an inspectorate for tax inspection in order to exercise control over the activities of economic operators who do not have these contracts. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments to Article 6, Article 7 and Article 12. All these amendments contain an updated proposal for a law which is the subject of today's debate and consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. The aim of this law, as we have already heard from the Minister today, is primarily to reduce and prevent employment in black or to contribute to the reduction of the grey economy. The second part of the amendments also mentioned by the Minister in the context of prevention of work on the black, touches the work on the student service's guide, which appears to be another person or if the person works under the conditions of the student service, but does not have the right guide to do so. The third novelty, also mentioned by the Minister, gives employers the opportunity to work under more favourable conditions under conditions of flexible work and work, which is not systematic. This is so-called little work and short-term work. As regards this so-called third novelty in the framework of the draft law, in fact, there were the most concerns, both within the framework of the Economic and Social Council and at the meetings of the home labour body itself. It is a form of atypical work, we have heard, which has also raised concerns about the meaning of both systematic and substantive regulation of labour and legal matter in several laws. The law on the prevention of black work is not a roofing law or a mother’s law. This is why we have, last but not least, an open labour law, which is also in coordination. On the other hand, which the Labour Inspector has also pointed out, a little work can mean some kind of legalisation of work in black. For the provisions of Article 12b are inconsequential. The consequences or rights arising from this Article are also unclear. The government promotes, literally promotes, a new form of work, which is considered to be a working relationship with shorter working hours than full time, although this is not a working relationship. These were the words of the Secretary of State at the meeting of the mother's working body. The person employed in a small part of the job is entitled to a maximum of 50% guaranteed, I apologize, minimum wages under certain conditions. However, these conditions are that such a person is not in a full-time employment relationship, is not carrying out a separate activity and is not receiving a pension. Therefore, its sole source of survival represents a maximum of 50% of the minimum wage and, of course, a proportionate share of social security contributions. If such a person is in the register of unemployed persons and is the recipient of a financial compensation, such assistance shall also be lost by the State. This law also mentions student work. I'll say the right thing if it's a job passing a student's travel pass. But there was a hearing on the committee, I'll say, perhaps even the government's covert intentions by one of the government representatives who is with you today. He says, "I expect this government to come as soon as possible with the law on scholarships, so that we can delete it when we have students and students in Article 4." Such are the intensities of this government, and such intensities are obviously covered temporarily within the framework of this law. Basically, we will not oppose the law in the Chamber of the Slovenian National Party. However, we are afraid that, given the current lack of inspection, this law will not have the desired or projected effects. The reorganisation of inspection services is not affected by this law, although this has been warned by the inspector. By the way, in the first paragraph of the minimum wage law, to which the veto was also voted, we talked about poor dialogue with the social partners or non-conformity of the law. You know, this law is also inconsistent with the social partners. Finally, let me say that in the next debate we will support the amendments of the opposition parties that have been tabled for the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support this law, as it aims at reducing work in black, which means more employment in regular working hours or legal employment, and on the other hand more taxes and more contributions to cash registers, which already suffer a lack of thinking about contributions to pension and disability insurance. So, despite the concerns that may arise in this law and whenever there is something new, there are, of course, more options and options for what will develop. But here in this proposal, we expect him to have some success and therefore we support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. A nice greeting from the secretary of state. The Minister has also drafted a bill amending and supplementing the law on job prevention and employment to the best of all, as has ever been the case in our country. And we can only congratulate him from this town. This government is obviously aware of the breadth of these problems that it has inherited and wants to change by means of this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the amendment to the employment law makes such good and necessary changes in this area, and in particular the relevant safety of workers. That seems the most important thing to me. The novelty of the law means compliance with the law on offences and the law on companies. This was, on the one hand, absolutely necessary. Then, one of the first and most important changes is that the work of students and students without a licence from an authorized student service, or if another person is working on this guide. Students and students are meant to go to school. Students to study and to study and graduate on a regular basis and can then be employed as necessary. However, only in exceptional cases, during holidays and so on. However, I will certainly be very pleased, and I am also waiting for this when the Minister - and I believe that this time too - has passed the law on scholarships. With this change, we will protect students who work through student travel. On the other hand, we will try to force employers to think about regular employment. Because for unemployed people who are employed in black, it is assumed that there is a working relationship for them for an indefinite period of time, although the employer did not conclude a contract of employment with them. In this case, the employer will have to hand over the employment contract to the employee within 3 days after the employment inspector has found a job in black, otherwise he will have the opportunity to request judicial protection. In the event that the employer fails to deliver the contract of employment within that period, a very sharp sanction is provided for the legal person and the entrepreneur and the legal person responsible. Another time. On the other hand, exceptions are new, which are not considered to be black employment. Thus, employment shall not be considered to be a free-of-charge occupation of short-term works in a micro-company or for entrepreneurs with up to 10 employees carried out by the spouse of an entrepreneur or owner or co-owner of an economic company or by a person with whom it is related to the line to the first knee, with a limitation to 40 hours per month, and carried out by prior application to the competent administrative unit. This work must be carried out in accordance with the rules on working relationships with respect to children under 15 years of age, working time, night work, rest, protection of women, protection of workers who have not yet reached the age of 18 years and safety and health rules at work. The next important news is that so-called little work is also being introduced. That doesn't mean you're gonna do a little work, but it's called a little work. Such work does not require a contract of employment under the Labour Relations Act. A small job is considered to be the work of a person who is not employed full-time who does not carry out a separate activity and does not receive a pension. Such work may take up to 20 hours per week or 40 hours per month. However, the salary per month shall not exceed 50% of the minimum wage under the Act 61.300 SIT gross. The employer is obliged to report to and account for the person carrying out such work and to pay the contributions of the insured person at the rates applicable to the contribution of the insured under the social security contribution rules. Small employment is a very important solution in providing flexible labour and will, in our opinion, also have significant economic effects. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support such a law. However, such a law also restricts the so-called grey economy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	and give appropriate powers to the inspectors to control it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Širca will present the position of the Member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Let me first point out that efforts to address this issue date back to 1997, when a programme of detection and prevention of work and employment has been adopted. Later in 2000, we know that a law on job prevention and black employment has been prepared. And the statistics that we all know, we know that they went into normalizing the problematic states that actually caused this law. As a result, violations or difficulties have been reduced. However, we do not believe that it is necessary to correct the law in view of the fact that in the interim period a number of regulations have been adopted from the company law, from the offence law, and from the law that regulates the work of students, society and so on. For this reason, there is a certain matter to be upgraded, but everything here is nice and well. However, the problem arises in the part where the Ministry redefines exceptions that are not considered as black employment. I'm speaking in the context of the 2000 Act. It is an exception, as we have already heard, to the atypical parts which the Ministry in this law has completely redefined and introduced. Of course, it's a little work and a short-term job. The law, which aims to regulate the prevention of work and employment in black, introduces new types of work. It's controversial for our perception of the law. We've talked about this on the committee and so far. A dispute from a systemic and a substantive point of view. And not just us, this has also been pointed out by trade unions with a number of comments that have more or less come across deaf ears. The question arises why the proposaler insists that these two parts, which are redefined by this law, be incorporated into the law, although in our opinion and in the opinion of some NGOs, should be regulated in the labour law or in some other legislation that regulates atypical works. That's not what the Ministry said in its own explanation. That is why there are many questions that remain open to us in this way. That's what the committee was talking about. That's not good. It may have a negative impact on job prevention and black employment. In the parliamentary group, we have been given the feeling that the Ministry governs these two parts in order to avoid debate in the Economic and Social Council. The fact is that working relations are governed by the Labour Relations Act and that these two new parts fall within both the systemic and the substantive aspects of this law, which is being coordinated at that time. We are therefore of the opinion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Employment and Employment is not appropriate. To introduce new forms of works and therefore you can also face our amendments, which delete these two parts. Once again, we call on Minister Drobnik to include these two categories, small jobs and short-term employment in the framework of the coordination of the Labour Relations Act between the social partners, and to examine in the future the relevance of the adoption of a specific law regulating these two atypical parts. More about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you. Ms Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group considers the debate on the additions and amendments to the law on prevention of work and employment to be one of those legislative proposals, which are with some other laws governing the field of work or social transfers, similar to that which we cannot claim to be compatible between the social partners. This is what shows, however, the misunderstanding of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs that good solutions can be found in dialogue between the various partners involved in the activity. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black is not as new as anyone might think because dealing with the prevention of work in black is taking place for several years. We do not oppose this law at the principle level in the Social Democrats Group. We wonder, however, whether the solutions proposed are really best given that both the Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of trade unions have had concerns about the solutions proposed, in particular as regards small work, as well as on short-term work. But the core of the comments did touch a small piece of work. In addition, it has already been mentioned that the law in many ways also deals with abuse related to student work. In order to offer a job to such an employer who has an employee without a student job licence, it is one of the possible solutions to restricting illegal student work and abuse of this instrument. However, the question arises to the Social Democrats: Would it not be necessary to deal with the issue of student work as well as the issues related to short-term work and small work in a roof law? This is about the Labour Relations Act. With regard to this law, it can be seen in the public eye that we cannot exactly boast about very successful social bargaining. In particular, we cannot shake off the feeling that certain changes in the labour law are already of such a nature that they interfere with what has been difficultly coordinated between the social partners in the present law. We would like to point out that we believe that some of the provisions relating to small work are insufficiently laid down. In this regard, we have also drawn up amendments that we hope will receive in the consideration of the National Assembly later. Of course, we cannot shake off another feeling that needs to be mentioned at the end. This is because the solutions proposed in the law, otherwise, deal with the issue of black work, but in the way that neither black workers nor black workers are stimulated to open a legalised status form in the event of legalised activity. For example, let’s say a self-employed entrepreneur and thus move away from what is now possible, even if it’s not designed enough, and therefore the form, which allows for the abuse of one who does so little work, is open. So we will not oppose the law on change and additions. But we expect support from the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament. Black work is part of a gray, informal economy. This is a sector that does not formally exist because of various social causes. And it's completely impossible to determine its extent. Undeclared work and informal employment are included in the black work. In 2003, the inspectors found over 2700 violations of the law on job prevention and black employment. Nearly 1300 mandates were passed, 1569 decisions issued. Some 1,780 motions were made to the guilty judge. In 2004, fewer cases of black work were found. However, the analysis for 2005 showed a trend towards a decline in law violations. As different sanctions have been applied by the supervisory authorities, the number of mandates has increased and the number of proposals made by judges for offences has decreased. The aim of the bill is mainly to reduce and prevent work and employment in black. In New Slovenia we certainly welcome a good solution in the law, which provides that if it is found that a person is working in black, this person will conclude a working relationship on employment for an indefinite period of time. The worker will be able to request judicial protection if the contract of employment is not awarded to him. The work of students or students without a job licence is also considered a black job. However, it will not be considered to be black work: a maximum of 40 hours per month, a work of a relative up to the first colleague in the line of a family undertaking, nor a so-called small job that will be considered for short-term work of up to 20 hours per week or 40 hours per month. In Nova Slovenija we welcome these two solutions, which will certainly facilitate the work of many people who run a family business. The amendments to the law also stipulate that the employer is obliged to report to the person and to allocate social security contributions. With the application, the employer will enter the social security records system, which will also allow for the integration into the tax system, thus allowing greater worker safety and employers' control and consequently reducing the number of unemployed. Black employment is not regarded as an urgent work and humanitarian, charitable, voluntary and charitable work. The remaining provisions in the amendments to the Act relate to compliance with the Law on Offences and the Law on Economic Companies and certain other provisions which have changed or have been supplemented at that time. In the New Slovenia Group, we support changes to the law on job prevention and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. It is unfortunate for us, and not only for us, for someone before, often or quite often, that makes it possible for an individual to improve the economic and social situation if we want to, and through this fact also the ability of a certain parent to allow their child with additional income as much opportunity as possible for both education and for many other needs. From this point of view, and even now, this kind of work is black all on average not being pursued radically, and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we accept this as real and meaningful. For if a person is prepared to do so in addition to regular work, we should not, of course, prevent him from doing so in the light of reasonable rules of the game. However, when such work becomes disruptive for the normal development and creation of the labour market and affects the increase in absence from regular work, additional regulation should be put in place. More than just black work, in our view, it is disturbing and harmful to the labour market to black employment, which has a single objective for the person doing it. This, however, is a tax evasion or avoidance of the requirements of economic and, in particular, labour-law legislation, which is mostly to the detriment of the one who does black work in this case. Disability and prevention of this work should be the main objective of this novel, which introduces into the basic law on prevention of work and employment those amendments which are also dictated by some other laws adopted at the time when the basic law on black work with novelties was created. The proposal of this law seeks to reduce or eliminate unfair competition on the market in the name of students and students without a passport or by abuse of a travel agent in contravention of its purpose, which we take as a good and necessary measure in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. With a view to preventing employers from hiring unemployed persons on the spot and thereby avoiding the conclusion of a contract of employment, Article 4 amending Article 5 of the basic law strengthens the obligation for both the entrepreneur and the legal person. However, the bill introduces a new institute in the field of labour law relations, which is a small work, which is also quantified or normatively defined by Article 12.b and is not considered to be work or employment in black. This work, as set out in the second paragraph of this Article, must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and, therefore, we consider it more appropriate and systematicly that this institution or small work institution should be better placed as a specific form of work and employment in a legal and regulatory framework for this more appropriate law, which is in the Labour Relations Act and in the Law on Prevention and Black Employment only to the extent consistent with the purposes and objectives of this Act. We will not oppose this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because of this proposal, but we will support it, because the law only brings about the changes that are necessary in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 October 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the two amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. An application for discussion is under way for this Article and for these two amendments. Please sign up whoever wants to. Mr. Capuder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I oppose both amendments to the LDS House of Members, mainly because the work in its own direction is sufficiently well defined already in Article 9 of the basic law, which is not being amended by this amendment of the law. However, speaking of which, I must say that I find the solutions for short-term work and for a small job very good, and with this amendment proposed by the LDS, these two parts would be abolished, which I do not think is good, especially for short-term work, where it is a matter of legalising the work performed free of charge by the spouse or children of the owner of a micro-enterprise or private institution and this work does not last more than 40 hours a month. By doing so, we help owners of such companies that they are not at fault. As we say, we will not support these two amendments in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We propose these amendments to supplement the law. Of course, we see no reason why we would delete the word in the change, that in the framework of the black work is not considered to be performing work in our own direction solely for personal purposes, and that in the law we then delete it exclusively for personal purposes. For self-direction works shall be regarded as the carrying out of all works on immovable property, unless otherwise specified by a special law and on personal property, and the provision of services, where they are provided by the owner himself or his spouse or by a person with whom he lives outside the marriage union or by persons with whom he is at the family level up to the third knee. In our view, the text is incomplete if it is deleted from this indent exclusively for personal purposes. For in this case this provision may mean that a person can work on real estate in cases where no other regulation prohibits it. Of course, we justify eliminating the possibility of abuse that such a change as is now enshrined in the law and the amendment abolishes it would bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I am also of the opinion that this amendment, which is not necessary already in other articles, makes this matter in line with certain welcome offers brought by this employment law to a black or grey economy which is quite present in Slovenia. Unfortunately, not only in Slovenia, probably elsewhere. And this amendment might break these things. The concept that the applicant has set out well and I fully welcome it, which is extremely positive and gives one particular point to make one step forward in this area, even in this area, which has so far been rather messy, in terms of preventing the grey economy, working in black, we blackly know that the effectiveness here depends on the supervision of inspections which will or will not do their work properly. However, I am convinced that within the framework of small work and short-term work, these options are given to every employer and employee to be in here and try to get what is not possible during these 20 hours a week or 40 hours a week, and now it will be possible. It also seems to me that this openness is given to those who want to work more. They have the opportunity in this way to earn additional profits, which, of course, to all, many Slovenes and Slovenes still need. At the same time, I strongly hope that this comprehensive bill-maker, who has prepared it, will also help to perhaps drive some of the job seekers out of this comfortable laziness at the employment agency who are waiting and looking forward to not getting a job, because they simply do not have the will and they do not want to get one. I hope and believe that there is an increasing number of opportunities for working in Slovenia. It is necessary to have the will and desire to work, and this law, I hope that something will also help this idea, that we will still be more equal in Slovenia, so that those who are able and must work will also work, get and work. Not looking for a job in black, looking at a law enforcement agency, but unfortunately, they forget about their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you. The amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 5 makes sense to me, particularly because of what is being said on the basis of these two amendments, in particular the latter. This is not least covered by the questions that we have asked ourselves in the Social Democrats Group. Why should some issues be dealt with in the law on employment prevention and in black work, which would certainly be covered by the Labour Relations Act? Why include and introduce in such a law some new forms of nontypical work, whether it is part - time work, part - time work, public works, household parts, student work? For the future, the amount of work for shorter working hours can be expected to increase. It may also be assumed that the scope of work at home will increase. And it would be good if these forms of work, which are still applicable to atypical forms of work, would be except for the rules. However, for the future, as we say, they can be expected to reach a greater extent. Why should this not be regulated by a roofing law on employment relations? That is why I think it is right that the chapters that deal with these types of works should, however, be included in such a way as to allow this law to be followed, as well as other rules under which this can be regulated. I'll support these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Let me back up this amendment a little bit more. There is no reason why the ministry or the Ministry does not say why it has excluded personal needs from the definition of what the ministry did in its own direction. In short, by doing so, spread the concept if so far it has been excluded that you are working on your own property in your own directing for personal needs. So, on your house or on your property, then with your dictatorship, it spreads for everything else. But well, you didn't answer why you did. You're just gonna have to do it when you have to. I'd stick around for a short-term and a small-time job. We do not object to the need for both concepts or parts to be further defined. But if they were included in the system's main labour law, protection would also be more defined, I will say, people who would resort to small and short-term work or employment. Now you define it in certain areas for children under 15 years of age, regarding working time, night work, rest and rest. But there's a lot of other things left open. Therefore, we believe that these two atypical parts, these two exceptions, which will fix your statistics on unemployment, would still have a lot. Both parts will have less protection for workers and workers than it would be right if they were included in another law or if they had more protection here. What's left open? It remains open, in fact, to the extent that it can be understood by the proposer at a small part - it is said in that part which may last for a maximum of 20 hours per week and not more than 40 hours per month and whose payment in a given month will not exceed 50% of the minimum wage. In short, the 60,000 SIT we talked about today. In short, is this going to be a special contract for a small part, which will not be a contract of employment. So it's work, for a certain kind of time, with shorter working hours. It stays open, what does that mean for certain rights, such as, say, lunch, payback for transporting to work? What about the vacation? Is this about casual work, such as housework, child protection and so on, farm assistance and so on? What are the restrictions on the extension of contracts for such work? We don't have any answers here either. Because it is understood from the bill that the employer can extend such work indefinitely with the worker and hypothetically looking at life for 40 hours per month, unlimited time, of course this can be renewed, meaning that it is stuck in some other type of work that we have defined under legislation in Slovenia. Because you're a fixed-term contract, for example, you can't let that happen. How, then, will the ministry oversee that individual no longer perform small works? In theory, it is possible for an individual to have multiple contracts. Why not? About a small job that won't exceed 40 hours a month. In fact, he will spend several hours and will receive several hours and thus be the remainder of the payment outside the contract. In short, when paying for a small job that must not exceed 50% of the minimum wage per month, it is also unclear why this restriction is. Why is it a limitation on the amount of the payment if the employer has to report to the person who will carry out such work for social security and from which the payment is also charged and paid by law? Of course, a person who does a little work has to pay the contributions of an insured person. We ask ourselves: Is it not up to the employer to pay for such works until he is proportionally segregated to contributions and other taxes? The end of this limitation of payment is also understood to be one specific work part which, for example, does not extend to a field of possible intellectual services which probably do not have such a defined threshold. In short, there's a lot of questions in small work. Also, whether it is part-time work or work in systematic jobs, etc. and whether unemployed persons and persons receiving financial social assistance will have to take any little work, for example. I am only opening a few questions to allow some further possible discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 5 which introduces a new indent of self-direction work with an emphasis solely on personal needs and works too hard. If anyone thinks that in our society we will eradicate work in black in this sense, he is deeply wrong. If I know something, I'm able to do something, or I'm doing something, I'm still going to do it, because I like working with someone who sees that there's something that needs to be done. If we start to judge this radically after this amendment, then it can also be a radical persecution of this work. And this is happening in practice, believe me, it's not gonna work out for me. We have many jobs, jobs, services for which there is virtually no provider on the market, because or this is not profitable, etc. And then, on a friendly line, if we don't get on a family knee, a man likes to do something for someone, and he can thank you very much, but he can do it against the service I'm receiving from him. So I wonder, you know a lot of service providers, craftsmen, etc. Today, we are increasingly charging these services, which is what I consider to be a client without an account. It's a tax evasion. It's a tax evasion. It's basically a black job. But you know, if we do this then this amendment, which is mild, gentle, but it retains some reasonable tolerance for the question of will to work and through this to some small work in fact, in this case black, which is an integral part of all society, even in the economy and the pursuit of deviations in this economy, as it knows, Germany, still has some reasonable tolerance for these issues. But far from me defending a job in black, or even a job in black. I'm just afraid that we're going to write in the law such a hard-formed approach that it's going to be a violation because it can't be otherwise. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you. Is there any other desire to discuss this? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you. My colleague Brenčič encouraged me to discuss this. I would indeed say that this is too hard to record if this article did not also contain the mutual neighbourly assistance I know as a form of solidarity between my neighbours. Otherwise, the fundamental question of what we really want to achieve and really open up with the amendments to this law is being raised. Because the introduction of the law states that the number of violations is decreasing in one way or another. I really feel like we're focusing on student-related violations. The fundamental question that comes to me in this law because of some inaccuracies in short-term work or in small work is, to whom is this law really written on the skin, who is more protected - or who is employed in black for the time being, or who is looking for such a job. More and more, it seems to me that we are more inclined to be flexible in employment and to be more protective of the one who gives the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I completely understand my colleague Majda, but if we translate her as she thinks I'm helping my neighbor, it's not because I did something to my friend Franco, but we're going up there together on some hill, and I know something, and I did it to him. This isn't neighbourhood aid, but I don't want us to stop it, this good purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	We oppose the amendment to Article 5 of the Liberal Democracy Amendment because the work in its own direction is already laid down in Article 9 and Article 9 of the Law does not change because we did not change Article 9 because it did not cause any problems in practice with the supervisory authorities. With regard to the concept of short-term work and little work, however, I would answer some of the questions raised. I understand short-term work and we introduce little work into the law primarily because we sanction employers. What does that mean? Since we have established a sanction to the extent that the employer is found to have an employee working in black, the contract must then be concluded for an indefinite period of time. That's basically the novelty of this marriage. As far as short-term work and small work are concerned, as you know - a contract is laid down in the law. We have given the contract enough freedom for both the employer and the employee to give the opportunity to determine how long he will be doing his job. Such short-term and small work is meant for a shorter period of work of the unemployed, and in some ways we also save the employment of the unemployed. Additional guards, such as children under 15 years of age, then we travel to the Labour Relations Act with regard to safety and health at work. The contract alone provides for a certain freedom for both the employee and the employer. However, the supervision of these concluded contracts or the performance of these two forms of work shall be under the responsibility of the labour inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	I'll tell you again why I oppose this amendment. So, the first LDS amendment. In particular, because Article 9 makes it very clear what work is in its own direction. And she doesn't need the phrase "only for personal purposes". Article 9 clearly states: "The performance of works in its own direction shall be considered to be the performance of all works on immovable property, unless otherwise specified by a special law and on personal property movements and the provision of services where they are carried out by the owner himself or by his spouse or by a person with whom he or she resides in an extramarital community or by persons with whom he or she is related in the line to the third generation." I think the diction is very clear on what work is in its own direct. There's no point in limiting something that's already written somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you. And Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I am convinced once more that this amendment is not really necessary. Because it's actually confirmed by the whole complex law. In particular Article 9 thereof. However, I am convinced that this is the whole high consensus and support of this law says that both employers and employers need it. He'll both come along just fine. And these things, which we are also solving in the context of these student guides, which are literally used by everyone today, I will say, are such and different, which never have anything to do with the status of a student or a student and so on. In short, a whole bunch of anomalies will be saved by this, of course, assuming that I've already said that the inspection will follow. Because otherwise this law will not have its effect as well as any other law that we adopt in the national assembly, unless it follows the matter that is called control over this continuous implementation of this law. I'm happy. I think it has wider support for this law and will also have effects for each and every other in this Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you. There seems to be more interest in the application. That's why I'm opening an electronic interview. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like once again to draw attention to the important text with which we wish to resolve any doubts. This is because Article 9 states that the performance of works in its own direction shall be considered to be the performance of all works on immovable property, unless otherwise specified by a specific law. We give that part an emphasis. For if we have special provisions in any other law, then we warn that the deletion of the text that now exists in the law could be done. We're just returning it. So, in the current law, this text already exists. The bill is now deleted. We are now trying only to return this text in order to eliminate any possibility of abuse under the text of Article 9, to which you refer, which speaks of, unless otherwise provided by special law. Second thing. I would also like to comment on it in the context of small work. Because in Article 6, we are actually going to discuss all the content that this law brings for a little work. There's only one segment I'd like to point out here. We also had an international comparison in the explanation of the law. There's something interesting. That we have a number of countries listed with which we are actually trying to compare legislation to prevent black work. It is interesting that we do little work on the basis of German experience. And even more interesting is the fact that the proposaler does not comment on the regulation of these proposals by regulation in Germany, where we could get a comprehensive view of how a regulated introduction of small work is a protection against black work. I think that this is one very important interesting detail, which is very important, because if we heard some practice that has been introduced, then it would be good for understanding and for the benefit of any possible abuse, because we are talking about it - because today we are talking about a law that speaks about prevention of work and employment in black, that is to say prevention. And through this law, we introduce two atypical parts. So we're introducing two atypical parts. This law should just talk about what is allowed as an exception and is not considered to be a black job. We are now introducing two new parts, which I think should be subject to specific legislation as atypical parts, or that is why we should define it in a specific law or define it in the labour law, to which it should belong. And of course, when we introduce these atypical parts, as a short-term and small-time job, a number of questions are asked. We will discuss these issues correctly in Article 6, which are very important for what and what type of work will be carried out through these forms. These are our concerns. We therefore propose amendments to Article 5, which, according to my assessment and our assessment, can of course help to improve the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	I call for an answer to the previously asked question about the possibility of abuse, which is also linked to the extension of contracts. Because a little work is very simple. It's convenient for the employer. It's a cheap labor force. The country is pleased that the unemployment threshold has been lowered. For example, the protection of the social rights of an employee, including one who resorts to such employment, is significantly smaller. He could be fired. He can be terminated when he thinks he is. And we know that it's defined that way. In short, how is it possible for a single employer to use a number of such contracts, not to prolong them indefinitely, and in this way there is a cheap workforce that does not have everyone to protect itself as a whole, and that, in fact, there is some sort of principle of working relationships, including those for a certain period of time? And what discussions were, for example, a flexible perception of working conditions, also through the introduction of a specific work for a certain period of time in the past, when we discussed the Labour Relations Act and when we tried to apply that time to really the professions whose nature forces them to this type of employment, you all remember well. Well, there's no one here today, nor is it those of you who once came from a coalition who once opposed such a flexible type of employment. Thank you. In short, the question of the abuse of such a defined small part and the addition. We don't see short-term work that problematic. It is understood, however, that in the context of small and short-term work and in the context of understanding this matter in another law, this amendment is part of a partnership or a partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	I am aware that the matter of the first amendment is so plausible that work in its own direction is indeed defined in Article 9. But when I read Article 9, I became aware that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as the bearer of the ministry of another law, should notice that one category of the population is not listed there. Family members, spouses, or members of an extramarital community are listed. It should also be new from a registered same-sex community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you. Any interest since the debate on this Article and these two amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to debate yes, please. [[...]] I am exceptionally withdrawing the adjournment of the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	No, I don't mean to argue, but to call on the government if I can answer the question of abuse. I also asked twice about the possibility of abuse through the extension of contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Would you like to answer the question, Minister? It's explained. This concludes the debate on this article and on both amendments and brings us to the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the four amendments of the Social Democrats Group of Members. The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Article 6 was first introduced by the amendment by the Liberal Democracy Club, which considers that the content of small work does not belong in this law, but should be regulated by the Labour Relations Act. This was an important debate in the home working body. Warnings were given by trade unions and, above all, by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, the general impression was that this suggestion would not be accepted and that little work would remain the content of the law. This was the reason why we decided to try to clarify the content provisions on small work in Article 12b above all in a way that there would be no doubt about certain solutions. We therefore asked the Ministry and others in particular what general provision on the payment of all contributions means and concluded that all contributions to pensions, health care, employment and the like are being paid. And the answer was satisfactory. When the question was raised by our side, or if someone who is registered at the employment agency loses their application if he gains this little job, and was the answer no, remains reported, we said, then this solution is fine with us. As a third question, however, we have asked what is the income that comes at the expense of small work. And it was given an answer, and these revenues are taken into account and can therefore achieve a censorship that prevents him from then the right he has to account for social transfers or employment from unemployment. That didn't seem right to us. Therefore, in Article 12b, we propose that the double payment of the amount under the minimum wage law should not be taken into account in the exercise of the right to compensation or assistance under the law on employment and unemployment insurance and on social protection. It seems to us that it would be right not to put someone in a position to do such a work, and then for a year, he may not have that right. And we would expect this amendment to be supported because it seems reasonable to us. We have tabled three amendments separately to the third paragraph, which refers to the content of the contract concluded by the employer and the person who performs a small job. We have tabled three separate amendments in order to give the kind minister a chance to think about each and at least one of them. Because if they were together, I could say that he's rejecting everything for one word. It's only a matter of precision. For us, for example, the provisions on rest, rest and adjustment of working time seem so important that they are also part of the work contract as a compulsory component, not the part where other rights and obligations are written. Because if someone spends 20 hours a week, he can also perform them within two days twice after 10 hours. That's not wrong. In this case, it is necessary how the rest and rest are arranged. You can't even get one job. Say, half an hour for lunch and something. We think it's right that this is the content of the contract. It has been established that the content of the contract is only a way, but not a time limit, to pay the payment which it has the right to receive. We find such precision important because it will not harm anyone. But she'll benefit from the public's content. If it's already in paragraph 12b. The articles are proposed, which are all the issues that need to be settled in the contract, in relation to each other, we think it is appropriate to simply write them. Make it the content of the contract. Let those rights and obligations set out in the second paragraph be, of course, provided that they are taken into account. Because not everything, say, about the work of children under 15 years of age or so. It doesn't have to be taken into account if it's an adult. So it is exclusively and explicitly about the desire for precision, which we find useful, because despite the union's concerns and the Chamber of Commerce, a new concept and a new form of small work are introduced. It would be right if we were to introduce it and not include it in the Labour Relations Act, which, in our opinion, would also be meant to clarify it to the extent that there would be as much confusion and controversy as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. So, as I said in my explanation for the amendments to Article 5, I said that the law on prevention of employment and black work should certainly have restrictive content. The content that introduces short-term and little work according to our assessment does not systematically fall within this law. For it is very unusual that this law actually legalizes work in favour of carrying out an economic activity. This, of course, seems to us to be a non-systemic approach. Therefore, we believe that the regulation of both short-term and small-scale work would make sense to introduce into the labour law or through the labour law or as a specific law for the performance of atypical work. Once again, I would like to point out that the experience that is so easily passed on from one country, i.e. Germany, where there is little work, does not, of course, have any basic and thorough analysis and reasoned non-positive and not negative directions. We have now, in explaining to the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats, heard that, of course, the small employment contract, which should set the basic parameters, the so-called working relationship, is also able to understand in different ways through the rights that those who will perform such work will have. The warnings we have here through the amendments say that the contract concluded between the employer and the employee is very important. For in no case should we legalize work in this law that could lead to the exploitation of workers, employees. And if we look at which employees - those who will work 20 hours a week and 40 hours a month, and we also get a sense of what kind of work they are doing on the board. Let's just say if three buses arrive before one of them gets old, they'll stop there. It is a notion that, of course, it will be possible to regulate this through a small work contract. Of course, I don't see it that way. I don't imagine it will be such that small works will only be connected to the work I would say physically done, but then a consistent little work should be arranged for all kinds of forms of work. Why isn't that so? We can also see from the text of the article itself, which says that the payment for this work must not exceed 50% of the minimum wage by law if such work is done by a person who is not in a working relationship and so on. Then why is this limit of 50% of the performance, 50% of the minimum wage? Is this really just about ensuring that we do this form of work would say doing only the physical works that are poorly paid? I think that if we are already introducing such a provision, then we should not have here, if the time frame is still a payment framework. For in this case such a form is not logical. The other disadvantage is that, of course, we do not talk about how many such contracts one employer can have. Will we support the fact that instead of having one regular employee, he will have five temporary contracts, i.e. small work contracts? Will we have such contracts for the continuous repetition of certain works? Will there be a tendency for us to have to say regular, permanent jobs? And when we talk about this through changes in other legislation, when we talk about the Social Protection Act, when we talk about the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, when we say that every job has to be adopted, or can we actually understand this as a concept that we will be today, in fact, tomorrow, all of us in small employment contracts? Will this be the flexibility of the labour market, where we will set ceilings for the time work, where we will set payment limits? I wonder what control will be like in this. There is no assessment of the extent to which it is expected. I wonder, what will be the control over the performance of such work? Will it not be a fictitious contract, but it will work significantly longer in a substantially different way and these contracts will, in fact, only be fictitious for statistical data processing, where we will say that these contracts, of course, have the status of regular employment contracts, while they themselves will determine different contracts and the scope of this work itself different? We therefore propose that, as soon as it is introduced into a law to which it does not belong, a law where restrictive treatment of work should be dealt with in black and we should only mention exceptions so that we do not introduce a form of work that allows economic activity to be carried out in order to have a thorough consideration in advance. We therefore propose that the text contained in Article 6 be deleted in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you seem to be the only one. I'm sorry, it's almost time. That's why I'm opening the application. Here you go, Mr. Janc!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I hardly understand my speaker, or I don't know, I speak more of my former practice. This matter is a small job as an employer and as an employee an extraordinary opportunity to give what has now been an emptiness. The abuse of a contract can be any possible, such and different. And mine in the final stage as mayor and MP. I work 12, 14, I'm working overtime. It's probably too much, but that's right. As far as the small part is concerned, article 12.b after my reading and I understand it is one great thing, a good traveller, but if there is one thing or another, abuse can occur in any contract, whether it is small or large or it is of any kind. And this article seems very good to me. This amendment may be well-intentioned, but I don't think it's necessary. We don't need him in this. This whole 12.b article, if you read it from the first to the last indent, I think it tells me everything. And in today's market fight for every tolar, for every sold piece of such or different is, of course, this flexibility of employer to such or different, whether it is s.p., d.o.o., d.d. It's all necessary. Is this going to be big or small? The minister probably can't know that either. Who knows? I think that, because of such or other works that employers have such or other needs, they will decide whether to take a worker who will have 20 hours a week or 40 a month. I think there'll be a few of those, too. But it is likely that every employee will look forward to having a full - time job. Normal. I don't think there's gonna be any big crowd here. This may be a transitional period, so that perhaps those who wait and wait at the employment and seek a job, but sometimes so seek to find it not to regret, is also here perhaps to have the opportunity to do the first step, to come to some employment, otherwise to get a small job, and then perhaps to get a chance to prove themselves here as good workers of willing work, that this employer will conclude a contract, that right or much for eight working hours. So, I don't see you paralyzing things here, so what happens if I do, then what happens? Let's give the employer the opportunity to try to get people to work out of this abyss a lot of unemployment in the institution, because jobs are being searched, and the work in Slovenia is enough. There's a lot of him, but unfortunately he's often run out of will to work and it's better to be in the institution, waiting for those subsidies you get and being in a better position than the one he works. This moment is still present. I'm talking about the environment I come from. Unfortunately, too many times, and this is not fair to those workers who work hard for eight hours, working hard for those 100 and a few thousand a month, but those who wait and wait and ask God not to wait for work. Sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. At first, I was only going to report that I would come forward once again, when and if someone was to compromise explicitly with the proposals of our amendments. Such a system, Mr. President, you have introduced. By the way, you have to sign up with this automatic check-in. But now, according to my colleague Janca's statement, I would just say that we hear too many times how happy those who don't get a job are. I think that such statements from the sent-mail are irresponsible and that we will not repeat them today. Individual cases that may exist cannot generalise this and claim that the person who is registered at the institution is in a better position than the one who works hard. Such an example can also be isolated. Just, please, don't generalize this, because it's the only thing that shows our relationship to solving these problems. The first thing I said was still true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u160	Very briefly, because I first expect the Minister to respond to some of the dilemmas. My thesis is next. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we limit the increase in minimum wages. This will cause considerable problems in a number of families. And when workers who fail to agree with employers and with anyone else on the labour law will put pressure on workers, the answer will be, "No problem, in the law on the prevention of black employment we have allowed you little work. And if you're not satisfied and you can't live with a minimum wage, you're still working 20 hours, 40 hours for an extra 50% minimum wage." That's what's gonna happen. This is a classic way of solving social situations in Republican societies. People in North America have two jobs. In a day's time, work for 8 hours on minimum wage. At night, at night, on Saturdays and Sundays, a little work and more. That's the only problem. This is not a matter of law on job prevention and employment in black. This should be defined in the Labour Relations Act. Unions, which, of course, are no longer practical in North America, and therefore have been pushed by employers, of course they oppose such matters. The Minister found a circuit in the law on prevention of work and employment in black so that it would simply, without the law on labour relations, completely change the labour market. Is it really what we want in Slovenia? Is it really the way in Slovenia that some, those with minimum wages, will now work up to 60 hours? This is the key content of this law. I expect the Minister's answer, please deny it if he can and can do it. And then we'll discuss it further. Why does this coalition want people to work 60 hours to survive? You can do that here in this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl has not failed his beautiful habit and again deceives, again deceives. If Mr. Squeakl had read paragraph 12b. the article says who can do a little work. One who is not in a full-time employment relationship. Mr. Squeakle, that's what the law says. Maybe you didn't read it. That's probably it. I think that this idea of small work is a very good thing, and it will help many to be able to solve their social problem in this way. However, we oppose the amendments tabled by Social Democracy. Because we think that this area is primarily this supplement and payment, so that it can be settled or justified in the amount of two minimum wages, I think this is an area that goes somewhere in the area of employment and unemployment insurance. This is where these mechanisms are regulated because the deductions from the earnings obtained from the occasional work are adjusted. As for the rest of your amendments, I think, given the work we are talking about, the solution that is proposed in the law itself is described in paragraph 12b. Articles to be good enough and quality enough and talk about both the one who takes the job and the one who gives it enough protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u164	Very briefly, Mr. Capuder. It's not a problem. That's all you write down in the Labour Relations Act, and you get it in line with the unions and employers. Consistency in the Labour Relations Act. Not in a law that didn't go through this coordination of the solution to introduce it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u166	I think there are a few questions that need to be answered. Let me begin by saying that, of course, the discussion is interesting and, of course, raises some questions. Any such law or arrangement of work that is somewhat different raises questions and fears, why not? That is why there is also a debate in the National Assembly. The key objective of this law is to prevent work in black. And I said that the first two sets are designed to sharpen those who are going to do black work. These are criminal sanctions. And what's interesting is that the employer has to get a job if it's found out he got a job unemployed in black. And the employer is obliged to hire him. On the other hand, we also introduce more flexible forms for which we stand and also implement them on the basis of the European Commission's White Paper on Competitiveness and Employment Growth, which recommends that members allow entry into the formal labour market for the people who have worked outside it so far. These are instruments that will certainly have effects. In the short term, and in the small part, they will mainly engage those who worked in black. We are firmly convinced that this has also been demonstrated by the analyses they have done in other countries. Of course, I owe you some answers. I will begin with Mr Potsch, on the records of the unemployed - yes, they remain in the record, so that as far as this is concerned, we are on the same page, I stress. If a consistent award were introduced in addition to monetary compensation, abuse would also occur. To make a deal with the unemployed and the employer - you keep the compensation there, I'll give you something else and we'll all be happy. We have certain reliefs in terms of whether you receive compensation, what is counted, and what is not counted. So there's something you can do. However, with these benefits, so that nothing is fully taken into account in the compensation, we certainly cannot land for the reasons I have explained to you. We'll look into it. Alternatively, this material belongs to the Employment Act, where revenue and certain incentives are identified. That's the stuff. And as you know, I have also proposed to increase unemployment benefits in the possible novelty of the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. It may be possible to introduce some minor adjustments that will stimulate the marriage. We can understand that, a way of short-term work and a little bit of work like "job-sharing" or "job-rotation". What the European Union recommends. Student work has a much lower standard of insurance. We all know that. What's with the student work? It's nothing, it's just a payday, and for an accident at work, it's insurance. Otherwise, there's nothing. For a small part, it is a matter of paying all social security contributions. So they have a pension, a health care, a child and so on and are counted during work hours. There are holidays, there are rest, there is prevention of child abuse, there is safety and health at work. I also read the statement on how it was coordinated in the Economic and Social Council: "The working group, composed of representatives of trade unions, employers and governments, met and agreed on all the issues at stake, so that a substantive agreement was reached on the law submitted. In doing so, part of the unions do not agree that introducing new atypical forms of employment, which, while it is intended to limit work to black, is the substance of this law, since they believe that this way work can even be legalised. So, we have ourselves thought about putting this material together with other atypical works such as student work, small work, short-term work, complementary work into a special law. But there's nothing wrong with being in this marriage. For we determine by what rights they are determined, or by what criteria they are determined. In order to make sense of roundness, the whole substance of the atypical work, as well as in the government, is thought to regulate this atypical work in a special law, but with identical approximately identical determinations as is now defined. Short-term work is not the same as little work. I am warning or informing an additional honourable Member of Germich. The one about buses was a comparison of a short-term work that is much simpler. It's not a little work. Why don't you write in the law everything this employment contract has to have? It's a contract of employment. We've determined in the law what this minimum part is. The other part, of course, may be the subject of both parties. In any case, the employer and the employee must comply with the law. That's a fact. It may directly exercise the protection of rights if it has been violated by all those mentioned in the law as they are written in the law. Yes, absolutely, because it's written in the law. Of course they are. It's listed. Working hours, night work, rest and rest, protection of women and safety and health regulations at work. All of these are defined in the Labour Relations Act. With regard to social security, therefore, the contract includes those key ones. Nor does the employment contract contain all possible rights under the Labour Relations Act. It's not defined. That's clear. Then it's a copy of the law. I think I answered for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u167	Any other wishes for a debate? I'm opening the application. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to Mr Capudre for his announcement that he will not support our amendments. I have listened very carefully to his arguments, and I accept them. I won't support it because I won't support it, because it doesn't save anything. There are no arguments, in short, but I believe the opposition cannot be accommodated, that is an argument. With regard to the Minister's statements. Mr Minister, for the second time today, you have promised me that you will look at the issue of solutions related to the fact that someone receives a certain job and accepts a certain form or compensation for unemployment or compensation under the Social Protection Act. For the first time, when the first reading of the marriage was already under discussion, you said, but this is a matter that shows very serious thought, because it has its logic to stimulate in some way the one who has accepted a job. It wasn't any of that. Today you told me that in the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, when the General Audit, you would think about it. I hope that I will remember that the second time you promised, and I hope that the third time you have fulfilled your promise so far, you have not yet fulfilled it. As far as the content of the contract is concerned. That's all I want to say to you. Different approaches are possible. I'm not going to say that what we just wrote as content cannot be determined. Of course we should be. You can make a lot of arrangements. But that's not an obligation. As for labour contracts under the Labour Relations Act, believe me before we wrote the amendments, we went to look at this article. Nothing that's not there is included here. There's a lot of other things that we haven't included because it's a specific form of work. But it's true that there's another one, too. And, of course, not all the content of the Labour Relations Act is listed as a tax obligation under the Labour Contract. So, I agree that there will be no tragedy. But I do not agree that it would not be good if part of these issues were not laid down in the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u170	Unfortunately, I have to repeat again the question that the minister either avoids or does not know. In fact, how can you prevent certain abuses that open up with little work? Even with regard to the use of a continuous or repeated extension of contracts, which means that so-called specific little work will turn into something else that the employer will like, but not one that will work in this way. At the same time, I would like to point out that the exclusion of this small work from the Labour Relations Act understands that you like it and do not cover or at least more protections than the Labour Relations Act has. By this logic, a person can easily be harassed in a small part, one way or another. She's harassing her because it doesn't say here. The protection of workers, but those who have not yet reached 18 years of age, can be taken into account. But the rest of them could be harassed at such a contract work, a parade - you might say. The Labour Relations Act speaks of women not being harassed by all employees at work, but of something else. I was talking about lunch earlier, permission, etc. In short, you can define yourself as to my question concerning the use of small work, which, I repeat, will also be of great benefit to employers, because it will come in an easy way to cheap and poorly protected labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you. Any other wishes? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u172	With regard to controls, the law determines who is in control. He's an inspectorate. He's also the Ministry of Labour. With regard to control, I stress Article 12. The Minister responsible for the work shall issue a more detailed instruction and prescribe forms for the performance of the works referred to in Articles 12a and 12b of the Act three months after its entry into force. That's what we're going to be monitoring, what's going to happen, what's going to happen. But it's a condition written for doing such a job. If the inspector finds out that this is being misused, he will prevent such work from happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you. There's still hands. That's why I'm re-appealing. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u174	That it will not remain in the public of Slovenia that I have failed before. Who can be forced to do a little work? They say, I say that the one who would instead be full-time, because this is the condition that the law imposes, worked seven hours and 55 minutes a day. Then he will be forced to work 20, 40 hours a month at the minimum wage he receives and thus get up to a maximum of 50% of the minimum wage. Mr Capuder, the law does not exclude the possibility that someone who is in a working relationship with less than full-time work should not do so. Therefore, if you want to encourage a small job, if you want this little work to be properly protected under the Labour Relations Act, it is supervised that the reflection of the dialogue between workers and employers is reflected, then I suggest that we put it in the Labour Relations Act. We therefore propose that this amendment, which we want to support, be excluded from the law on job prevention and black employment. If you refuse to do so, this will mainly be the law on the introduction of small and short-term work. Because this law gives us a novelty for the Slovenian labour market. And it's not through the law that should regulate it substantively, it's a law on working relationships.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you. Another hand showed up. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u176	I have to tell Mr. Squeak. Mr. Squeakl, this is the law on the prevention of black work. And what you're doing is, I don't know, it's more of a fog sale than some constructive help in making an even better marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you. You want to replicate, Mr. Squeakl? Here you go. [[Back-up advertising.]] Was that your replica? Sorry, there's no replica on the replica. Then she raised her hand first for Mrs Shirca's discussion. I'll include you in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u178	Part of the answer, Mr Minister, was to my question about the possible use and transformation of small work into a continuous repetition of the small part contractual relationship. You said you'd control it, of course. I know that. That's what the law says. In short, the Ministry has been monitoring this and will issue more detailed instructions. However, you do not have any origin in the law, or you can limit your contract work in these more detailed guidelines. I mean, such instructions should come out and come out of the law. You don't write that. Therefore, I insist that this small work can actually be transformed into a different form of work for a certain period of time that will come in handy for employers. So, Mr Capuder, this is not a law on the prevention of work in black, in this context, but it is also not a law that allows work to be done in white.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u180	We support the fact that the amendment follows what the trade unions have proposed for themselves. Trade unions protest the introduction of a category of small work in this law and insist that this provision be regulated by the Labour Relations Act. The Minister, who has today been praised by some Members as excellent and I do not know what kind of minister, is unable to agree on this labour law. However, it has the pressure of those who want to solve social problems in the way this law allows it, and this is with extra little work. Therefore, this provision has been incorporated into a system-wide inadequate law. I think it is perfectly logical that, in Slovenia, in some social dialogue, we want to regulate the relationship between employers and employees so that this provision is in the labour law. And he has to get out of this marriage. That's why we proposed an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u182	Given that some of you have not fully understood what is said in the Economic and Social Council Communication, I will read again. I think it's necessary. So, the second part: "The working group, composed of representatives of trade unions, employers and governments, met and agreed on all the issues at stake, so that a substantive agreement was reached on the proposed law." So, with the substantive provisions, all the social partners agree. Part of the unions, however, do not agree that the introduction of new atypical forms of employment with which to limit work to black is the substance of this law, because they believe that this way work can even be legalised. That was their opinion. They have no objections from a substantive point of view. I would also like to use nomotechnics to place these different forms in one law in order to make them more transparent. I agree with that. But it is not unacceptable that this legal substance is in this marriage, because it aims to reduce work in black. This is not opposed by the social partners. Of course, let us give time. As Germany has applied, it has, of course, also determined over a certain period how this works on the labour market. One of the additional conclusions on the Economic Social Council was that after at least one year it was determined that the analysis would determine what was going on in the labour market in relation to this law. We absolutely support this as a government in order to resolve any problems or problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you. Another deadline for discussion. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u184	It is possible to explain to the public how this dialogue was constructive or satisfactory for all. The Economic - Social Council we found out on the Committee - it spoke of this subject without a minister. Two to three hours was a long conceptual discussion. It was folded into four lines, the social partners did not object, of course, to regulating the work itself, but not in this way. And also in all the comments and amendments they have applied, we can see how this dialogue has been a partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u185	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u186	In the working group, as a rule, the Minister does not sit, nor do the presidents of the individual unions sit, principally by the professional co-workers. I read it was a task force. However, it was a preliminary decision to harmonise the working group and then to harmonise it, it also meant to the Economic and Social Council. Well, read it carefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you. Another deadline is for discussion. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u188	Mr Minister knows the structure of Slovenian trade unions very well. The Union of Free Trade Unions and Pergamums are two major unions, and they oppose this regulation in marriage. So, of course, Minister, you can quote us five more times. The fact is very simple. It's not the matter of the law on the prevention of black work. This is the substance of the Labour Relations Act, where it is necessary to lay out other conditions in order to promote little work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, 20 seconds. Thank you. Any other wishes for a debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.20. This concludes this agenda item. They're moving on to 22. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the integration of TRANSFER by individuals and the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. The aim of the proposed law is not to reduce social transfers, but to ensure a uniform way of coordinating all types of aid and benefits with the growth of living costs, which means that everyone will maintain an irreversible standard of living. A uniform way of coordination ensures simplification, transparency and social justice. Is it not justified to apply a uniform method of coordination to all these benefits? Transfers to individuals and households provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or the Treasury of the Pension and Disability Insurance or Health Insurance Office constitute an important arrangement whereby social security is provided to individuals or families through various concepts of solidarity or the distribution of funds. Through social transfers, we provide means for a decent life to those people who cannot earn income for different reasons on their own or need them because of different circumstances, children, older people, disabled people and so on. In Slovenia, we have a lot of different social transfers, which are due to the development of social policy or its creation in different periods. There are a number of laws specifying these transfers, which all of these types of social transfers are regulated. These include, inter alia, very different ways of coordinating or valorising. These rules have changed over the past period for various reasons. The basic reference values on the basis of which monetary remuneration is coordinated are two in accordance with the applicable legislation. The first is the basic growth of living needs and the second is the growth of different categories of wages. Most transfers shall be coordinated once a year, twice or even every month, in particular as regards the remuneration of the health insurance institution. For such different ways of coordinating rights or benefits, there is not always and everywhere there is a legitimate reason. Some illogicalities are also present in the system, while some pure social transfers are aligned with wage increases or pension bases, although there is no real reason for this. Indivisible coordination also leads to the unequal social situation of beneficiaries of individual types of transfers and reduces social security. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will allow for the coordination of transfers, which are therefore paid from state and municipal budgets and from both cash registers, in a more uniform, transparent, simple and logical manner. With the solutions presented, we want to simplify the coordination mechanisms for all transfers paid from public financial resources and thus ensure an equal position for all beneficiaries. The proposal provides for transfers to be coordinated once a year in January with the rise in prices of living needs in the period of December of the previous year compared to the same period in the year before. There will be no change in key social transfers in the field of materials that are most at risk. For example, cash social assistance, child allowances, unemployment benefits. So the material position of the weakest is maintained. Some social transfers will be even higher: maternity benefits, paternity benefits. For they have been coordinated on the basis of the starting wages of the public sector. These, however, grew slower than the rising prices of living needs. We have introduced savings resulting from uniform coordination, although the objective is only unification, the same approach and transparency. We stress, however, that we have provided additional funds of $8 billion in the budget itself. However, the material indicates that the effects of these valorisations are 1.8 billion reductions. So net, if we add or subtract these amounts, we find that this is a positive shift.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask President Brenčič to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The Committee considered the proposal for a law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households at its 10th urgent meeting on 19.10. following an urgent procedure. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a legislative and legal service as input for the Committee's meeting, an opinion from the State Council Committee on Social Activities, comments from the company on the unemployed Slovenia and amendments from four or three coalition groups. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of the legal and technical situation in the law and has made specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9. However, it follows from the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities that the proposal for a law should be withdrawn from the legislative procedure. The Commission also proposes that, on the basis of concrete financial analyses, an assessment of the financial changes resulting from a new way of coordinating social transfers should be submitted to the individual on a case-by-case basis. It is only on this basis that the proposal for a law should be aligned with the social partners and put into the legislative process. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee informed the bill-makers of the additional decision of the National Assembly of 27.2.1998, which provides that an agreement should be reached with the social partners when it comes to rights affecting individual social rights and the deterioration of the situation of recipients of social assistance. In the debate on Article 3, qualified applicants slightly transformed the amendments in terms of amendments into amendments because they were of substantive importance. After a brief discussion on these amendments, and also on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups and amendments, which were as working materials for the regulation of the law under the legislative and legal opinion, the Committee adopted an amendment to the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 3 and the amendment of the same sent groups for Article 3a. However, he rejected the amendment to the amendment to Article 6 of the Committee of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. As it is said, the Committee has formulated a series of its amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. All these amendments are incorporated into the amended bill that is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u194	Dear Mr President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Act on the coordination of social transfers of all kinds means harmonising the benefits resulting from solidarity in the field of social protection under different laws. And this part, which speaks of all being coordinated in the same way, has its own logic and well-founded basis. In this spirit, this part of the law is not problematic for us, even though we opposed the law as a whole a year ago. It has turned out that the country is currently unable to provide more benefits in this area within solidarity. And if so, then I believe that a temporary solution in this sense is possible and necessary. With regard to the prosperity forecast, however, I believe that in the next few years there will be an improvement in the economic situation and the possibility that these transfers will increase nominally or align with wages or in a more favourable way. In this respect, our support for this law is possible. Another is when it comes to paid rights, for example, from the law on pension and disability insurance and the law on health insurance. The pensions resulting from the contributions paid are not covered by this law, and we are absolutely in agreement with this. However, we will not support the law unless an amendment is adopted that clears the law, which speaks of coordinating the rights paid by health insurance contributions in this way. I mean sick people, because they give nothing for these budgets, and therefore the state has no right to interfere with this law in a way that in one law reduces or halts growth, and the legitimate increase in the income of those on sick leave is paid by every income from the employment relationship. In this sense, it is our client's duty to demand the elimination of this work. It's not about transfers in a classical sense, it's about another right. In this sense and under this condition, if this happens, we will support the law, but otherwise the law of our support cannot be obtained. For we also need to understand the rights of employees who are paid, and it is those who should also provide enough money for pensions, as retired persons have guaranteed this to their predecessors in this segment of the population. This is the position of the Group of Members, which will not change unless that amendment is adopted. We will support the law if the amendment to Article 3 is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome it all very well. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are pleased that we have finally received the law. We believe that it ensures fair coordination of all social transfers received by individuals or households from state or municipal budgets. This will prevent permanent speculation, whose foundations, whose foundations are better, which at some point are more favourable and will also save quite a lot of debate here in the National Assembly on how to coordinate individual types of remuneration. I think that the increase in the cost of living is the way that allows for the actual revolving of these contributions or these benefits or that they remain realistically the same and otherwise have the same purchasing power regardless of how they are. Changes in prices of living needs shall be taken into account. The fact is that we are talking about coordination. In doing so, I hope that we will not talk about the very heights of individual types of transfers and contributions, benefits. These may be too low for me, some too high. But it is only right for change itself to work in a way that I think is fair to everyone. I think it would also be necessary to agree on some of them, and I agree with the predecessor who said that it would not be technically necessary to revalue them in a single year's time for health insurance contributions or payments. That's right. Otherwise, it would probably be wise for us to look for this way for all our benefits. So it would probably be wise to agree, if not now, on how pensions would also be coordinated in this way. In doing so, I must point out that speculation about which variant is better. Right now she's frozen as far as I can tell they're public servants' salaries. It's a category that's not getting any better because we've kind of limited our wages. If this decision were still in force, which was adopted to reduce past work, it would even fall, it is said that some transfers would be reduced. At a time when these wages grew much faster than wages in the economy, this was in a more favourable position, which had such a basis. Equally, wage growth can be an misleading category. The growth of wages can be higher at certain times than the growth of inflation. Or maybe not. That's not for sure. The increase in prices of living needs can also be higher than the increase in wages. Many times this has proved to be true, and many times it can also prove to be true. Let's say we set up a relationship in such a way that young people get jobs instead of indefinitely. In a moment, I'd be dealing with loans for housing issues. It is said that a large demand pool would rise and the cost of living would rise, but not pay. Even if VAT were raised, the cost of living would be raised, not paid. To speculate, which is better, all elements were once better in history than any of those who were. I think that the only real and correct one that takes into account actually takes into account without any side calculations a fair calculation of the growth of the cost of living that is being taken into account is one that is fair and actually holding these benefits and transfers in real terms to the possibility of purchasing or spending. We will be happy to support this proposal in the Party of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There was also a lot of talk today about the success of the so-called social dialogue. Here, of course, our social dialogue is a little strange. Some are not for dialogue, because in some cases I could say that some of the debates are quite ridiculous. How come unionists can't believe and understand that lunch isn't work, it's lunch? We're discussing this. We are practically protecting our interests, not the interests of those we represent. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this proposal and I hope it will be extended. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Anton Rop will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u198	Dear Members. We have before us a law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that should allow for the coordination of transfers in a more uniform and transparent manner. Therefore, it is the objectives which, in principle, could be supported but only supported in the context, only as part of the government's social and economic policy, which would lead to greater prosperity for all citizens and citizens. In the LDS, we find that this law is unfortunately not part of such a policy. On the contrary. The law before us is an integral part of government policy that changes very significantly the nature, scope and structure of the social state in Slovenia. Part of the policy, which accelerates higher, higher income inequality, increases social disparities in Slovenia. Part of the policy that leads to an increase in poverty in Slovenia, social marginalisation and systematically destabilizes the social state. It is therefore not surprising that this law is strongly opposed by the social partners, that it is not harmonised within the framework of the Economic and Social Council and that virtually all Slovenian unions are protesting about it. That's not funny at all. Some of them accompanied him to the National Assembly with words. I quote: "Social dialogue in Slovenia is at the bottom. It is a planned dismantling of the social state and the social dialogue of the Economic and Social Council in Slovenia is no longer." Dear Members and Members! With the adoption of tax legislation, in particular income, we have warned that inadequate and criminal tax reform will make it extremely difficult for social dialogue to be achieved by the government. It will be very difficult to talk about these things, it will be very difficult to talk about reducing or abolishing, replacing transport costs to work, cutting back a little bit, reducing cancellation deadlines and deindexation, which is what we are talking about today if it simultaneously raises millions of net wages for a million or two million Slovenian tolars. And those who have the lowest wages provided 600 or 1000 Slovenian tolars more per month with the same tax legislation and then - and we are starting today - taking a meal, transport costs to work, reducing cancellations and finally raising - what is already going on - excise duties, such as electricity, heating oil, which is forecast in the 2007 budget and - perhaps not important - have raised value added tax. At the same time, the Prime Minister claims that this is the only tax reform in which all citizens will gain. This week, we're already seeing what they're really gonna get. The poorest certainly have fewer rights and fewer benefits. Let's see what's going on. First, this week, we passed a law on income. According to the Economic Institute for Development of the Faculty of Economics, with these changes to the Income Act, those with the lowest wages, the 20%, will receive more than 600 million Slovenian tolars a year. At the same time, 40% of the richest will receive 30 billion annually. Poorest 600 million, richest 30 billion. Today, we are adopting a law that will primarily account for the poorest, which states in the explanation of this law that we will save 1.8 billion in 2007, in 2008 4 billion, in 2009 6.4 billion. A total of 12 billion in three years. So, what's gonna happen? This week we have earmarked for those with the lowest salaries of 1.8 billion and we also guarantee through this law that they will make 12 billion savings in these three budgets. The poorest - 12 billion, the net is 10 billion less for the poorest. The richest will win 90 billion Slovenian tolars in these three years. And that should be fair, as the SDS representative said. In the LDS Parliamentary Club for such measures, there is no excuse for such a social state and even less sense. That is why we strongly oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We strongly oppose the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. The law has many significant shortcomings that should not be addressed at all. However, the policy of this national assembly, which follows the interests of the government majority, will of course not take this into account. First time. The law runs counter to the decision taken by this National Assembly in 1998. It recommended that the Government carry out such dialogue and report on all issues relating to social dialogue. The government did not discuss this law with the social partners, nor did it inform the National Assembly. This is becoming increasingly the practice of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The National Assembly or the parliamentary majority in it tolerates this. Another time. The contents of the law are not in accordance with his address. The actual objective of the law is not to harmonise transfers to individuals and households, but to set such a common basis for coordination in order to achieve the country's macroeconomic and public financial objectives. In order to reduce the volume of social transfers and thus reduce the necessary expenditure of the budget. And that in 2007 for 1.8 billion, in 2008 for 3.8 billion and in 2009 for 6.1 billion. The law therefore misleads the Slovenian public with its title. Third time. The law has no explanation to allow his true judgment. For there should be a finding of how much each of the proposed changes means plus or minus for the social beneficiaries and for the budget. Now he's just giving us some data. And this data is only for the budget, not for individuals at all. Therefore, the Government did not want to provide concrete data because it was aware of the negative effects on the situation of the beneficiaries and wanted to cover up the actual situation. The law primarily means reducing social transfers, not harmonising them. If I wanted to coordinate fairly, I could also provide such grounds that formal harmonisation of the nominal right would not reduce. Since coordination for all rights will only take place once a year because only annual inflation is neglected on the same basis, and especially because it is now aligned with price developments alone, all recipients of social transfers will be severely deprived of their rights in the coming years. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we consider the proposed law to be a major fraud. When the country simultaneously improves the situation of the highest-income debtors with the changes in income, other measures will completely destroy the few that the income changes will give the worst-paid. With this law - let's say - in a single month, it destroys anything that this law gives with the so-called good income solution to all those who have a salary to an average of one year. This is really about drastic changes. They need to be shown, and they cannot be supported. Unfortunately, however, every debate on individual solutions is not desirable, is not possible and is not desirable in the parent’s working body. I'm afraid it's going to be similar today. Neither the Minister nor the Coalition Members were prepared for a substantive debate. The coalition was not prepared or able to explain the amendments it had tabled on its mother’s working body. That's the way it is. This government and coalition are deciding with the power of numbers, not with strong arguments. We will oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u201	Mr Franz Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The purpose of maintaining some real value of individual social transfers. Individual laws governing this area have regulated the way to maintain the real value of individual payments. The way in which individual social transfers are revolving is very different. Most of all, we can share it in two ways in the grave. Some categories of transfers that have been coordinated in terms of rising prices of living needs and other categories in terms of wage growth. As provided for in the law, in the future all transfers to individuals and households provided for in this law will be coordinated once a year in January with the increase in living needs during the period January - December of the previous year compared to the same period in the year before. The unification proposed by the government will, of course, introduce certain changes in the rate of growth in social transfers due to their greater dependence on the movement of prices of living needs. But we see nothing wrong here, because this is exactly the kind of instrument, this is the price growth index, it serves to maintain a standard of living. So far, it has been used or often used in European space. We agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposed solutions will also achieve the government's macroeconomic and public financial objectives, which call for solutions to the long-term sustainability of finances, balanced budgets, continued management of inflation and the upgrading of the public spending management system in terms of greater transparency and predictability. We support marriage solutions because we're sure they're good. Not good because of savings, but good because of unity, transparency and social justice in the payment of social transfers. The basic objective of the law is to establish order in this area, which was already the wish of the former government, but they failed, and not to reduce social rights. On the contrary. Some amounts, such as childcare and child care, maternity leave, paternity leave and parental leave, will be increased by a new law. At the same time, no beneficiary of financial social assistance will be reduced in rights or amounts. To this end, a total of EUR 8 billion is allocated to the next year's budget. The only non-essential reduction will be the amounts of certain additives of socially disadvantaged recipients, since these additives are not their only source of income. We also support the law in New Slovenia because it introduces social justice in the payment of social transfers. We cannot agree with the fact that a young working mother, who is on or above a minimum wage, contributes with her work and also with her giving up her family for this and that some of the social transfers can be aligned with wage growth in the Republic of Slovenia. These social transfers remain in the law. That's a fact. Not one of us is gonna quit. But they're going to coordinate in a uniform way. This is why we support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that. As a proposal for this bill, the government wanted to put the question or purpose and the objective it seeks to achieve in the context of adopting the 2007 state budget by means of a proposal for a law. However, the measures proposed for some cases were too severe or too hard, resulting in no support for entry into the procedure. This proposal also initially intervened in the amendment and coordination of certain transfers, which do not, by their nature, fall within a systemic perspective, into other transfers which, for the purpose of this Act, are coordinated in the same way. This is once a year with rising prices of living necessities from last year. However, the government has submitted a final proposal to the National Assembly on this issue and this represents an acceptable proposal or acceptable solutions for the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The fact is, of course, that, in the Group of Members, we are also aware that certain transfers, due to uniformity or equivalence in their coordination, will be reduced slightly, thereby reducing the public financial expenditure of the State budget as well as the municipal budgets. Of course, for some recipients, it is not the most encouraging. However, this unification makes sense to establish a single starting point for advance and thus to treat each other evenly and more fairly with individual recipients of these transfers. In terms of social dialogue, it would be good for the Slovenian People's Party's Group to agree or discuss the purpose and purpose of the bill in the Economic and Social Council as well. It is true, however, that the 'gro' - transfers do not have the nature of the rights arising from work but are part of the policy which, in the area of social sustainability, is obliged to lead the country as a social state, of course, within the limits of its capacity. For which, in the first place, a government or a competent government is called. This is also true when certain dedicated transfers pursue targets of some national importance in relation to the assessment of the situation, such as family benefits and parental protection. However, because throughout this package of legislation, which is now on the agenda, and even earlier, there are always questions about the state of social dialogue in our country, we would like to draw attention to the fact that there are a number of challenges facing this society, which will have to be taken seriously in some way, that this kind of dialogue is unfortunately as projected by some over-life leaders of some trade unions whose work is further fuelled by the harshness of the dialogue and partnership. All of this further projects some debates in the National Assembly, which do not lead to the formation of this society to be serious, reflect on what is ahead of this society. In this sense, I will return to a certain period of time, when there was another coalition, when, according to the assessment of the situation, we seriously imposed the reform of the most crucial cash register in front of this company. This is pension and disability insurance. At that time, the White Paper's starting point, with the help of international institutions as well as the European Development Bank, was set up perfectly. However, even so, because of such accession to the key union, we were unable to act. Therefore, after a relatively short period of time, we are also faced with the EU's findings that the necessary measures are once again necessary in this area. I mean, it's not a policy of dialogue anymore, it's everything else that's not good for this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that this time. I will begin by saying what Prime Minister Janez Janša said at the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday. He said, "That government saves where it can be saved." Yes, although it is very populist to hear what the Prime Minister said in order to do so, the government will also pay officials if only the Constitutional Court allows it to do so. But believe me, these aren't real problems. The real problem is what we're talking about today. This is to reduce or save on social transfers. The problem is actually where it's hard to speak out loud, because it's not so populist. At least not by the government. And the fact is, once again, I will stress that this government is saving on social transfers under today's law. This is a child allowance, a child care allowance, child support, parental allowance, foster care, welfare money, unemployment allowance, parental compensation, mental and physical protection resources, scholarships and more. There are about 30 or more such social transfers. Proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers to individuals and households. The proposal is prepared by emergency procedure. Many anomalies were visible on the working body itself, that the marriage was bad. That the marriage was poor was witnessed by a number of amendments prepared on the basis of the legislative and legal service and, last but not least, the amendments tabled by the coalition on behalf of the government, although it did not really know what it was or what it was signing. On the basis of this proposal, almost all transfers, with the exception of pensions, i.e. sick ones, will be compensated for damages and thus will be coordinated once a year. We've heard that before today. Once a year. In January, with rising prices of living needs, but in the previous year. Back it up, then. The coordination of social transfers will not follow the current living conditions and needs. But people will lose. You don't want to lose the recipients of social transfers. Citizens and citizens will already be deprived of their social rights and rights. Let me remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that in specific cases, these are mostly the last measures or forms of social transfers intended for those people who are otherwise unable to provide income. The duplicity of government, yes. It's the duplicity of the government. The Minister argues that the law is good, but the government points out that the new way of coordinating social transfers will save money. The country will save 1.8 billion Slovenian tolars in 2007, almost 4 billion in 2008 and 6.2 billion Slovenian tolars in 2009. Numbers clearly indicating negative social consequences for individuals and households. The government saves its hand on the heart by reducing social rights. I ask here: Where is Minister Drobnič's responsible attitude towards the lowest levels of people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, big words are something. The reality of people living on the basis of real, unadorned numbers is something else entirely. Today, around 60,000 beneficiaries receive monetary social assistance. The upper limit of monetary social assistance is 48,000 and several Slovenian tolars. And I ask you, how can you live with such numbers with dignity? In the Slovenian National Party, we are still well aware of what regular valorisation means to the recipient of monetary social assistance, or every tolar brought to him by regular harmonisation, not two years ago. In the Slovenian National Party, we strongly oppose such a play by the social state. That's why I'm predicting from this town that we won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to second reading, this is to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.10.2006. We are moving on to a debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Friend, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! So, the state promises to save, of course, at the expense of the most affected. These are socially endangered layers in the Republic of Slovenia. That's not right. The law with or without this amendment, as already said by colleague Žgajner, is not acceptable to us. We won't support him. However, with Article 3, and the amendment to this Article, I would like to comment. Look, a basket of living expenses goes up every day. The state says it will allow itself the right to coordinate once a year. This is the information I would like to highlight. Imagine how less real it is what the state offers for those who are affected. Second. How does the State act in another case when taking negative interest on an unpaid tax, for example? Even tap water does not run as fast as the interest on that part of the principal that is not paid or through the tax dose. Believe me, there are very few cases when the state has not recovered its debt to creditors. And of course, when we talk about how to protect the most affected, we have no hearing. Not only are we dealing with a critical law to the most affected layers in Slovenia today, but we also had such laws in the National Assembly yesterday and the day before. And deceiving the Slovenian public that no one will be harmed, as we have heard in this Chamber, is an unreal act. In fact, I would like to have more obedience to the work that has already been so impoverished. For, look, there are almost 100,000 unemployed people in Slovenia. We have a lot of malnourished young families. We have also faced this problem. Today, however, we are able to help the actual family with the cost of living. And we don't want to do that. This amendment to Article 3 is acceptable to us, but in the context of this, the law is bad and we will not support it with or without this amendment. So I would once again appeal, as my colleague before me, that the Minister should just consider where he has his social sense. What are we doing? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow people will come here to ask us, they will come and ask us to give them to survive. We've got poor people all the time. Just look out there on the platform outside, and you'll see that sometimes there weren't as many bums as there was today. The right to work is enshrined in the Constitution, is now null and void, because we have over 100 laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution. Nothing is sacred to us, nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. It is interesting that in the opposition we collectively - let me say - are critical of the proposed law, but we have only tabled amendments in the Social Democracy. Well, that's not the criticism of the opposition's colleagues. But what does that mean? Are we so sure that no longer is worth making a serious amendment in this National Assembly because everything is, as it is said, a bob against a wall or something else? I think we should think about that, too. We are also in this case many times, and someone else, some other parliamentary group, felt that it was only right, at least minimal corrections to the whole system, to try to introduce, because it is as proposed, really harshly unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! What you're saying is true. This is a story in which anything is possible. Of course, anything is possible, but the question of whether it is necessary and whether it is fair. To talk about whether we want to have uniform and comparable bases or a uniform basis for coordination. Yeah, I'd say not to ask any of us to say that it's not, although of course it's in the best interest of the state. But also if it is for the benefit of the State and if it means simplifying procedures and if it means less administrative costs and so on, it can be useful. However, talking about this today as a fundamental purpose is not true, because if it were a fundamental purpose, then this would not be regulated by an urgent procedure with unclear data and consequences, but the government would come, and I would say, we would ensure that, before we reach the harmonisation system, a reassessment of each of these social transfers will be carried out. We will say, for each one of those who is that fair height that we think is acceptable, and we will make such mutual coordination that will not mean lowering these rights. Now, Mr Starman tells me that this is the only fair way to do it, and he sees what's possible. Yeah, anything's possible. It may also be that wages are not paid, and it is possible. Maybe they go up faster, slower up. But to say that this is the only honest way is to make it up. This means, indeed, that if price developments are properly calculated, there are no changes in year after year, but not in year after year. Prices are also changing. Protecting real heights. However, the relative relations between these social transfers and wage movements are changing. Ladies and gentlemen, as a rule, we want to do this, we promise in the opposition even more on the big mouth, you promise in the coalition that we will go to a state of prosperity. This state of prosperity means, of course, that wages will move not only after the growth of living costs but also that wages will move depending on productivity, the increased productivity of the work we want them to move in line with the larger gross social product we will achieve. And that, fortunately, is usually what happens year after year. As a result, wage growth is generally higher compared to the increase in the price of living needs. Over the past few years, between 2 and 2.5 percent is higher than the price of living. What does that mean? This means that we, as a country, have decided that for those at the social bottom who have to obtain social transfers, their position is relative to the visa of those who have a salary, who, as one of the Members would say, want to work, even though it is an ugly lie and a fabrication of facts. But they've got a salary and they're working to keep this up. In two, three years there will be a gap that will increase by 10%. Is that really what we want? I don't think so, and for that reason, it's not acceptable how the government decided to do it. We have shown this in a way and in coordination in one way that I will not say is ideal. It may not be ideal, but it is possible for all those who accept a variety of benefits from social registers to take one system by which we coordinate. And if we claim today that we are most satisfied in this country with the pension coordination system, then should it apply to health care, then should it apply to invalids, then should it apply to other pension benefits such as the annual allowance, the allowance for assistance and service and the same system, and not only to regular, old, family pensions. I think this is the option that would be properly implemented. In particular, it is impossible for the sick to be managed in the same way as you predicted in the law, since for the first time, they come from solidarity, they come from paid contributions. After one year of coordination on the basis of cost-of-living growth or direct price movements, there would be huge differences. And one more thing to say, you will now say that we speak out of wickedness. Perhaps, just the fact is, there is a link between the demands of this ministry that the sick should be reduced. And that's what the Ministry's demands are in the framework of the social partnership, and we've been listening to the disease reduction requirements for a few months. And because the social partners don't agree, the government has found a different method, so we're not going to be over the percentage, but we're going to be through the way of coordination, but we're not going to be crazy not to see it, and we're not going to tell you gentlemen from the government. That's not how it works! Then say it; we want to reduce the sick by 10% - three, four - by 10% in real terms because we think that medical bills are too weak: or because we need to increase our contributions, we cannot, or because many of the gentlemen in the coalition like to say, because all of them are sick, they don't deserve sick, like all those without work, simulators and they don't want to do what we've heard even today. We're just listening with a few amendments to save how many times to get rid of so that we don't just criticize. I hope that the debate on this will open up, that at least some amendments will be supported, because I would not be unfair and I would not like to talk about everyone here in one amendment, and I will stop and talk to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say a few things for the kind speech of the kind gentleman. So, I agree that the opposition is writing amendments, I do not think that in the middle of the mandate you have failed to write amendments, because the opposition must actually work, like a coalition, the whole mandate. And it is also true that this position is already a number of amendments to the opposition, just your party, because we've assessed that it's a good one. And I'm surprised by the way you started this discussion. It is good to criticize, even as the opposition, you can exaggerate, and it is acceptable to say that in the coalition we say that those who are sick and who do not have a job to be simulants, and this, Mr Ptrč, passes the border of good taste. You have never heard this from a member of this government coalition, and of course I would ask you to do what you have not heard, not to say. As far as your amendment is concerned, I would say that there was no consensus in this law, which we really started talking about a year ago, but today the situation is very different. Slovenia is ahead of taking over the euro as a common currency and meeting this Maastricht criterion, of course we should no longer have such inflation in the future that has had a major impact on these social transfers. So inflation will have to be below 2.4% and price growth will no longer be what you are counting on, and you expect these social transfers to lose so much. They will not, because this price and inflationary expectations will not move in these contexts, to which we are all accustomed in the past. Here you are saying that the Minister is reducing the rights of workers, that the Minister is not able to agree to decommission the social state and what is more like populism statements. It is true, however, that I agree with one here that representatives of trade unions, when we settle these matters, will no longer have so many opportunities for these numerous meetings; for all that will be coordinated by some mechanism without indefinitely agreeing to show how much they work, and then eventually agree on what is logical in itself, as is the minimum wage and so on. Of course, we would meet indefinitely, display it as a great work, and thus convince workers how they defend their rights. At the previous point, you objected to any additional option, employment for a particular job, short-term work and so on. So this is actually opening up the possibility, not closing it. And here, when it comes to contributions that are actually contributions of solidarity, there really is no real argument that these contributions of solidarity should continue to be coordinated, once a year, one three times a year, one every month - yes, give arguments for it! What are the arguments for not unifying this matter so that the law does not co-ordinate anyway, then and then, and no longer need to know, union leaders have no idea how many meetings with the minister and so on. And to conclude, my colleague Rob said that the government is taking lunch, that the government is taking transport to work and so on. Buddy Rob, no. If such a law is adopted, then this House will adopt it, not the Government. This is suggested by employers, workers oppose it, and I think that this Parliament too. It is not in our Group of Members who will vote in favour. Then why do you urge the minister, the government to take something and so on, when I can still follow in public these conversations, which take place on one side between employers and on the other between workers' representatives, among these unions, which you are talking about, how they are wonderfully protecting workers. I hope they protect them. In the final stage, if they do not protect them, they will have to be protected by Parliament and the government by adopting such and different solutions. And here, in this house, not past us! And I don't agree with you at all, and I'm not going to have this country run by union representatives or union confidants. The laws shall be adopted by Parliament at the final stage. They can make deals with each other. It is good if they agree on all matters where they do not agree, as well as those which, finally and lastly, have a national assembly, but not as you, Mr Rob, have estimated that there is something going on. The government doesn't take anything. I think that this government coalition has so far done a lot to regulate, simplify, simplify; and also the intention of this law is to simplify many illogical solutions that have accumulated over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Since I was mentioned, I would like to replicate what Mr Sok said. So, the essence of what I was talking about was that after a tax reform such as this was adopted and adopted, it was very difficult for me to imagine that in the negotiations Mr Drobnic could still talk to the social partners about such things as the taking away of lunch, the cost of transport to work, the reduction of cancellation periods and so on. In short, all that is discussed under the mark of labour market flexibility is, in my opinion, completely meaningless after this tax reform. It makes absolutely no sense to talk about social transfers and about it, as it says - that is also what I would like to draw your attention to. In fact, you have written in your explanation, if you add up the number that the savings are public finances, under the heading of these measures 12 billion. Well, I didn't make that up. That's what the explanation says. So there will undoubtedly be 12 billion in the poorest, socially most vulnerable groups. And I say it is totally unacceptable that after you, your government, have given this coalition to the richest in three years 90 billion Slovenian Tolars, you have passed this bill, you have voted that today you are talking about that the 12 billion you are taking here is nothing or that it is absolutely necessary to do so. I have to say, I wouldn't see a problem if there was an agreement that would give a little less to the richest people instead of 90 billion and, through tax reform, give a little more to those you are taking from them now, 12 billion. And I say that Mr Bajuk, through his tax reform, has destroyed every possibility of social dialogue and conversation. And in this context, I must say that it seems to me that Mr Petty Officer is in a relatively very difficult position. After what has been done, it is very difficult to discuss any reforms in the labour market. Labour market reforms are also necessary in Slovenia and need to be discussed; but impossible without tax reform, impossible without other measures. And that's what's missing. But everything else is written in these materials that are before you, and I'll tell you again. Don't hold on to what you said the government doesn't take anything. He's taking it! It's written in the file, and it's true. And the government also gives, but the problem is that it takes first the poorest, which is 12 billion, and then gives 90 billion to the richest in Slovenia, and here they explain how we need saving and how we will save wherever we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, where is your morale? That's my question. The fact that the government is not taking anything has already told you: the first year is a billion 800, the second year is four billion, the third year is six billion 900. And when we talk about this amendment, k3. Article, you haven't said a word about this amendment! You were talking to the Flossules and nonsense. Article 3 states: "It is aligned once a year in January with the rise in prices of living needs in January - December of the previous year compared to the same period in the year before." Do you know what that means? This amendment of the Social Democrats to this article makes great sense that, after all, this matter will only be missed and that this will be coordinated as is essentially the practice of coordinating pensions and, in fact, this would be kind of normal. But you used this debate for something else. You're talking about how honest the government is, what's gonna happen to this good, and how there's no need for the minister to talk to the union. Yeah, who's he gonna talk to if he doesn't talk to the unions? Trade unions are legitimate employees. If you don't know that, read the law. And the minister needs to talk to the union, not that he doesn't need to. He needs to talk. And that's second, because it's true that he's closed all his roads. I would recommend to a minister who has not been here before that he thinks about opening up the Ministry of Poverty and Unemployment, because there will be more of these under this law than there are today. And be happy that we can take the roads without flying any eggs or tomatoes into our heads. That's what's gonna happen. You first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the Maastricht criteria are concerned, Slovenia has long had to meet them in order to be able to take over the euro by 1.1. It is true, however, that taking over the euro will also bring up prices and, according to some estimates, up to 20%. You know, that's what makes these people on social transfers so much less disadvantaged. Due to this new way of coordinating social transfers for a year or even two years ago. And when you, respected colleagues from government parties, specifically colleague Pojbič said in the first law of today's session that in the SDS they are aware that each tolar means a great deal to the recipients of the minimum wage. And don't joke, and I'll repeat the words of my colleague Friend - where is your morality, your respected colleague and colleague? You're the one who's forcing laws like this! Such catastrophic laws, which will cause the most harm to the socially poorest representatives of our society. By the way, 14 days ago, I listened to information that the poverty rate in Slovenia had already reached 10%. I hope, Minister Petty Officer, you're laughing so you won't tell me I'm lying. This was the information that was presented on public television. I also hope you won't say that this time you don't give anything to what the press report says. I wonder whether what we are deciding today in Parliament actually means coming into a period of prosperity for all citizens and citizens. Whether we have a real minister in the right place, I ask myself, but I repeat the words that one of the representatives of the largest coalition party has also spoken today. You know, I just can't tell a minister like that with a smile on my face, thank you, Minister, for doing this, I'd rather say it's a disgrace doing this. Allow me to conclude, given that we are talking about the amendment to Article 3, I will also support this amendment from one point of view; because the government has said that all transfers within the framework of social transfers must be given in the same way of harmonising the short-term, unifying the system of coordination of social transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. Let's do it! Why would only and only pensions be excluded from this system? If we accept such an amendment, then we will actually come up with a single system of coordination, which is, after all, better than what you are proposing in a written solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. A number of things have been heard today, and even more has been heard in some of the previous examinations of laws that dealt with the unemployed or the sick. And whenever we have discussed these laws, we have warned the Social Democrats that we find such an unacceptable view of the drafting of the law, which comes from the assumption that they are unemployed workers and that those who are sick are simulants. And this has also been indicated on several occasions by the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment that such negative deviations should be prevented, and we have said that abuses must be eliminated, but that marriage solutions must be sought that encourage employment-promoting and other forms of employment. I would expect the government to be a little more attentive to what we are also alerting the Social Democrats to, by the way, that we are the only country in the EU that does not have a register of occupational diseases - and we do not have much. And in this marriage, I feel like there's something else, like there's a lot of things missing in this book. And that's the way it is with these laws. We accept partial solutions, perhaps the minister has an idea of what we will achieve in the end, but as things come, they come in unsynchronized, they come through systemic solutions, so that we who are in opposition can also see "where the dog taco prays". Now what has been said is that this National Assembly has not taken anything that would not have been harmonised and that it does not follow government decisions. Excuse me, distinguished leader of the New Slovenia Group, this National Assembly and coalition regularly reaffirms the decisions made by the executive branch [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u221	Ma'am mag. The amount of assigned revenue in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u222	That's why I don't understand, and I don't see why. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u223	Ma'am, I ask you kindly to limit yourself to the debate on the amendment to the article. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u224	Yeah, I'm coming to that. Here we go, here we go. That is why I have not heard in any of this debate, not in the presentation of government positions, why the government has decided to coordinate once a year after the estimated growth of living needs. In our amendment to Article 3, the Social Democrats proposed a different way of coordinating. But from what could be seen, even in me, there was now doubt that the purpose was even as good as it seemed after what I heard was expected to meet the Maastricht criteria, that inflation would be even lower. But because the opposition did not talk about the savings of the state budget due to different coordination, proposed coordination of social transfers! The government itself has estimated what savings will be made. If it is not enough that the adoption of the law is opposed by the social partners, then I would ask when the government has sent this law to local communities for coordination, because it itself notes that some of the transfers it is currently talking about are also paid from municipal budgets. And when it comes to local community finances, local communities should also decide on it. I don't know if we'd get that in our hands. Simplification or unification, both require a change. And when we make a change, we always have to ask ourselves, whose good it is to change. The change you are introducing is certainly not in the interests of the recipients of transfers, since where do you know that there will be savings? I therefore rightly ask those who oppose the amendment of the Social Democrats why transfers could not be coordinated with wage increases if this is acceptable to pensions - and I do not claim to be a social transfer - but why this should apply to pensions, for some others who are paid from the same register for the same transfers should be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Given that there have been several questions that are being repeated, I think it makes sense for me to answer you immediately. With regard to coordination with the social partners, the issue of coordination was only ill. Well, coordination of diseases, given that they are generally shorter, we have suggested that it is consistent with the increase in living costs once a year. It's understandable, it makes sense. There's nothing wrong with that. But when the unions insisted that it would be necessary to raise wages, we proposed that we do so. But when they went to calculate what it means to save, they saw that they were not important savings, but they gave up, and they said, "We don't agree with that." Now we don't know what they don't agree on. The government has proposed that, as Minister of Economic and Social Affairs, I myself have proposed: well, we will avoid this unified coordination because you insist so strongly on the diseases. They agree with the others. We will do so if this means the objective of social dialogue. But they didn't agree to this because they saw that there was no smart one; calculate these long - term ills. If there's 6 billion a year and the difference is two percent, that's how much? 120 million per year. 120 million, that's it, not making big stories out of it. Well, that's easy to calculate. See, otherwise, representatives; the record again - you can get it - representatives of all three parties agree that the harmonisation of the method of coordination is also necessary in the field of disease, because the current system allows for anomalies, especially in the case of long-term diseases. To achieve or even exceed the amount of salary that an employee would otherwise receive if he were in the workplace during a long-term illness. In particular, it has been highlighted and repeatedly stressed that the anomaly is also a different basis for calculating hospital benefits and should be uniformised. That's what we're doing! But when it comes to taking this step forward, there is no joy in having anything to talk about because it's nice to talk about. Now I'm just asking: to have a social dialogue. Now tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, how much time should we devote to social dialogue to align ourselves. Is it a year, or is it seven years, as has been coordinated by the previous Labour Relations Act and the collective agreements, the Collective Contracts Act, four years - the Labour Relations Act has been harmonised, the Collective Contracts Act has not been harmonised in four years - has it taken 20 years? Tell me what a criterion for the success of social dialogue is. You know, there's been a lot of offers, but if someone doesn't want to, they have the right to say no. Because, after all, social dialogue did not force it. I'm glad we can work this out. 25 regulations have been harmonised, three have not. This is one of those where the disease has not been brought into line. Should we wait two, three years? This actually affects some of us, such as family benefits. This law, in turn, improves them. Now, about the savings, I said 1.8 billion. For the purpose of parental protection, funds increase by 4 billion per year for scholarships of 1.2 billion. Otherwise, we will receive additional funding from the European Fund, so that it will increase significantly for scholarships. Social assistance, over 1 billion; pensions, not to mention, the valorisation of pensions, with which you all agreed, how much higher are they, how much higher is it at the annual level? If you add that up, 10 times what we're talking about. He had about 20 billion a year, so it is unworthy to talk about 1.8 billion because it was not the government's goal, the goal was to unify transfers, not savings, because with other instruments we regulate these relations. Now I'm answering a systemic question. Madam Member, but the Ministry of Labour is not capable enough to write 30 laws in one month. We can't do this to you in a month. However, if I can explain to you what we intend to take in the next two, three months in the government, this is the law or family code, the law on the procedure for obtaining social transfers, because we will prevent accumulation, duplication, as has been pointed out, and, of course, the labour relations law. I hope that we will lead him to the final result, that we will have security of flexibility in Slovenia, as stated in the Lisbon Strategy. We have improved rights in the parental area, I have said, by what amount; in pension - pensioning, more rights to hire disabled persons, employment of disabled persons has increased by more than 40%, you have statistics; unemployment is falling, employment is rising. It's just data that's available. Another question about poverty: yes, 10%, but seven years ago it was 14%. The level of risk of poverty is falling and so is the decline. Now all we can do is ask ourselves and discuss whether it's falling too slowly. This could also be discussed. I am working to make the risk of poverty fall faster, and the most powerful factor for poverty risk is employment. The most important, at the same time, ensures social integration. As far as the government wants to end the luncheon - I don't know, it was about excise duties, transport to work, some oil was mentioned, I didn't hear very well, but it's not in this law. We are negotiating a labour law and this is not a government proposal. The government's proposal is to shorten the notice period, that is, it is good that the trauma is reduced during the cancellation period, and the employment agency enters the rescue facility actively with the instruments of active employment policy, so that the retraining is also co-financed during the termination of the employment relationship process. This, however, will be in the interest of all unemployed and employees and businesses. That's what we want, that's flexicurity. What does it mean if one year's notice is due? What did you get? One year of loss of nerves and interlocking and conflicts between employers and employees. There's no stopping it anyway. It is important that we ensure the entry into new employment as soon as possible. And that's the direction of the government. Children's allowance, care, child protection, financial social assistance are not changing. This is clear and these are the key instruments, transfers that remain at the same level and are intended for the weaker. Yeah, but with some, he saves himself. For those who do not have these supplements as essential for the maintenance of social security. These supplements, along with pensions and others, also achieve, I've already said that and I've given the data, including a million tolars a month, net. This needs to be answered by taxpayers or is it still appropriate to create coexistence, reciprocity, solidarity and justice. But it's worth talking about. This law on social transfers - you know, because there is no big news. This law was essentially prepared within the framework of the previous government. And I must say for myself that the starting point is good, the unification of social transfers, this is the right approach. Of course, some models - state pension, pensions are exempt and [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Why would they sue each other if they're good solutions, then let's say good ones. However, in order to valorise everyone with wage growth, social transfers Good, as the social partners have also said what they consider to be such benefits. [[...]] That's the problem with some people. Falling in the last seven years - risk of poverty: 14% seven years ago, then 12, 11, 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, otherwise, was not a direct answer to the question, but I'll give you a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister came directly to me and answered me. I thank him very much for that. But I count his answer for underestimating my parliamentary experience. I am certainly not so inexperienced as to expect the government to adopt all laws within one month. I am also very closely following the government's forecasts of work in the annual plans what it intends to adopt. At the same time, I am also reading in the proposals of your laws such justifications that any law must be adopted because it will be so, or the things I have already warned you about, I must now believe that the Slovenian law on scholarships will be the best in Europe, although, given how we regulate things, it is necessary to know if we have restricted the law on student work so that the law on scholarships should be adopted earlier. I was talking about the sequence of these laws when I mentioned to you that the whole picture is not composed and it is not possible to understand from the proposals you are giving us where we will end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u229	Here you go, Mr. Rope. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u230	Of course, this is a replica of what was said, and it refers to what we said and said. So, I have to say that this answer here can, in particular, be concluded that unfortunately, the Minister does not link the measures to each other. Of course, when we talked about it, we did not discuss whether sickness, retirement, or whatever else, or cancellation periods, refer to the law itself. We have talked about a comprehensive policy that is interconnected, and it is only on certain assumptions that it is possible to talk about deindexation. What I say is that these measures, which are now on the table, are, in their entirety, aimed at increasing social differences and poverty. So these data, which were quoted here on the table, refer to past periods. I must say that in Slovenia we can be proud to have one of the lowest rates of poverty, but the rate of poverty is measured in individual countries as a deviation from the average wage. So basically, the rate of poverty measures income inequality. And what I am telling you today is: with these measures that you are now taking, when you are undoubtedly significant, important, significantly increasing the wages of those who have the highest wages, and you are putting at the social bottom those who already have the lowest income, not only are you increasing social inequality and increasing social exclusion, but you will also increase the rate of poverty in time, and you will see when the data for the year when it will "receive" and tax reform, and also what we have on the table today, with all the measures you are talking about here today. The whole end is: there will be a higher rate of poverty, more social exclusion and a different social state that you create in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will support the amendment of my colleagues in Social Democracy. The Minister said that the objectives included uniting transfers. Look, maybe he can lie to you from a coalition or someone else, but I have before me an explanation of the law, where it says, "the purpose of the law: to ensure the public financial objectives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; the long-term sustainability of public finances" - says savings. Tell me how you're going to save something, but at the same time, you're not going to reduce something, because I think we've been listening to witches and ministers for the last few days. You are raising those items in the 2008 budget, which are revenue by the VAT law, but at the same time you are saying that VAT will not be raised. Today's "sparrets" on social transfers, and you're saying they won't get any smaller. Who are you lying to? Alone? So that someone can get up and brag to the minister about how good, nice and nice he is. You're increasing poverty! respected colleagues and colleagues. You're increasing poverty. You decided to die for meals, for those people who are already at the bottom anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you very much. What is the point of criticizing this law? That you will not convince us that its consequences will not increase the relative differences between recipients of social transfers and those who receive wages. This has to happen, it's no different. Mr Sok, it doesn't matter whether the cost of living increases and the inflation 1% pays 3 or the cost of living increases 2.5% pay 5%. The relative difference increases and in the next two, three, five years increases by 10 and more percent and this is due to this law. If you can figure it out differently, I'll go back to primary school. Could not close temporary folder: %s And hiding this from people makes no sense. That could be politics. Okay, then just say it and admit it, it's politics, because we think that these social transfers are too high and we want to reduce them together. Today, to claim that they will not fall; yes, on average they will fall, because otherwise there would be no 1.8 billion savings in the following year. To whom and how much - no offense - you didn't want to tell us in the explanation of the law. And I admit that I didn't go to compare 30 laws - approx., because so many rights change - and for each one to count separately. If it didn't seem worth it, we should do it to the government, then no offense, because it's a necessary process and a little time and all that stuff we didn't do! Just talk about not getting any cutbacks, but you can't. It can't be because you wrote the number yourself, which means this reduction. At the same time, do we have a different view of solving certain issues? I am very sorry, and I would not repeat this again because Mr Christian Janc is generally correct and does not potentise things. Just Mr. Sok, it's your fault that I quote his statement today. Today, he said at the time of the law: "At the same time, I strongly hope that this comprehensive approach of the drafter of the law to employment in black, which he has prepared, will also help to perhaps drive out of this comfortable laziness some job seekers at the employment agency who are waiting and looking forward to not getting jobs - I say again that they do not get jobs - because they simply do not have the will and they do not want to get it. And let Mr. Janc go, if he wants to, read the magnetogram - at 1:02 p.m. he said so. If it's not a definition of being a lazy man, then I can read it all over again, but that's the point. Therefore, do not say that the coalition has never made any such statement. Yeah, she gave it a lot. And once again, I apologize to Janc, who has, as a rule, a proper and friendly debate, he's not a gravel to say so. But this time it was also said on his part, and I must quote because that was why I mentioned it. And, Mr. Sok, we'll be putting in the amendments. Every day we will invest them because this is the only way to prove that you have no argument, that you have no reason to speak up, that you have defined yourself that it must be so, and do not explain even what you have proposed. We also want unification, although this cannot be such a goal as to result in lowering, real lowering of transfers. But we are for unity and we propose it! Tell me why this proposal we're making is worse than yours. Because the coordination of pensions was proposed by this coalition and it accepted this coalition. Why is it acceptable for pensioners, there is no sickness, there is no child allowance, there is no disability, there is no annual pension allowance - tell why! Let's argue! After the session, I may be willing to help you with your arguments, but now I really don't, because I think you could make them up yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much. First of all, I would tell Mr Potsch that you had plenty of time to propose this unification, but of course you didn't. Now from the context of a debate to take a sentence and assign it to the entire coalition, of course I continue to insist that it is not correct. Then explain why you are proposing a different way than the government has proposed. I just understand that it's only so you can table an amendment and then you can talk a lot and criticize the government. This is just the attitude of the opposition, you can do this, but I have warned you that you cannot say some words just like that, over the thumb, attribute it to the entire coalition, especially if they are taken from the context of the debate of the individual Member, and I myself have understood this debate quite differently than you have understood. Once again, there will be no change in the key social transfers in the field of materially most vulnerable, such as social assistance, children's allowances, cash unemployment benefits. Some, such as maternity benefits, will even increase after this unification. The Minister explained where the difference would occur and explained how this difference would be compensated; in the area of healthcare he told you - 4 billion. But you can still talk and you'll be turning this thing around and talking about lunches, transportation at work and all that's not the point of this law, which is, of course, a matter of a whole other debate. You can continue to attack the Minister, etc. We are confident that these solutions are good and that these solutions will mean simplifying and eliminating all these bureaucratic obstacles that you and your government have really accumulated in the past. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear colleague Potrč, I appreciate your debates and also your very active work in Parliament, can be an example to all others of how Parliament works as a Member, but perhaps it is not the most correct thing to take my texts and discussions, which have generally been on the previous proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment to Work in Black. I was talking about it, and for what I said, I'm standing. I said I speak from my environment where I come from. Maybe it's where you live, different. It's different in Prekmurje. It's a pity we have a lot of people in the employment office who've been looking for work for a long time and asking God not to find it. That's a fact, I'm sorry, that's a fact. I don't speak for everyone, I speak for some. For some people, and thank God that we are changing legislation, so and so on, that we try these anomalies, where injustices happen to those who work at the standard 8 hours and get 100,000 and have a lower income balance at the end of the month than those who are in the institution. This is the wrong world. We need those healthy people who are able to work in this country, if I work 14 hours a day, he will work 8 a day. It's a job, but they won't accept it. And that's what I'm talking about. We have to get them in a different way. And in this context there has also been called a small job or a short-term job, where the opportunity of employers to also allow those who do come to work starts to work, and if only 20 hours a week, something is better than nothing. And in this context, I've said it and I'm behind it. Maybe it's somewhere else. I'm sorry. I'm talking about some, that's not the rule for everyone. For some. And they are in these times, which, I say, have used this heavily, all possible supplements, subsidies, such and different. And in the end, they came through, they got out of work, and they didn't want to work anymore, because it was just nice at home, and in the end, you earned even better. If that's good, if you support it, Mr. Potch - I don't, because I work 14 hours a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will try to return to the topic we are discussing under this item, and I would like to stress in particular, as before, that we are talking about the coordination of transfers between individuals and households. It is said that we are talking about a method that is proposed to coordinate from now on all of these transfers, or these household benefits. This means that if we adopt this law and it will apply from 1.1.2007 or from any time thereafter, this harmonisation will be done in this way already in January with the rise in the prices of living needs in 2006. And it'll be the same for everyone, we won't discuss it. And I think, as I said, this is a fair way, because it practically gives everyone the same opportunities and ensures the real value of existing transfers. I said that in this regard, whether they are too large or too small, how they are calculated, we are not talking about this in this law at all. We are only talking about how we will repair them or revalue them in the next period. And from this point of view, it seems to me that the law is fair to everyone and in some way harmonises these laws, because so far we have witnessed that where there has been more lobbying and we have practically adapted ourselves to the most right or to the criterion that has brought more. I have already said that, during a certain period, the criteria for the salaries of public servants were very good and many wanted them to coordinate. As the salaries of public workers in the state administration grew much faster than in the economy or anywhere, everyone would then be in this criterion. Now, all of a sudden, it's become a bad criterion and we all want to trade it for something else. On the other hand, we have come to the criteria - now we are all talking about salaries. Currently, wage growth is the criteria by which everyone would like to coordinate their transfers and all these things. Again, I say we look back a little bit, and let's take a look ahead. This criterion could be the worst criterion in six months. If, for example, as the fellow Member said, due to the introduction of the euro or to a drastic increase in prices or VAT, of course prices will rise and the price of living needs will rise and this criterion will result in three times more wages. Of course, isn't it? And that must be taken into account. The calculation itself, which is done, is on some kind of hypothesis. However, the fact is that we do not know what growth will be, what will be this criterion, what will be the nominal number for which we will revalue in January. We can't argue, and I don't think the Minister can guarantee that, either, that's some sort of assessment. It cannot claim that absolutely less money will be involved in these transfers, and more could be done if there were an increase in the cost of living. We know that some categories are always compared to the existing thing. I also think that it is real and it would have been wise long ago that this real growth in living needs is the one that is most real because it practically holds the real value of transfers at the same level. I don't know what the problem is. Let us not resort to what someone has given to anyone, but to all other laws, to what things are in them. It is necessary to ensure, and I think we can agree here that all these transfers are coordinated in the same way, with the same foundations. Of course, what will be the calculations, what will these things be like, we no longer allow speculation on this subject. If we leave this open so that we will not adopt the law, and therefore I do not support any of the amendments that have been tabled if we do not agree here now - I also said it would be good to consider whether it is wise for the pension to be coordinated in this way. It's not right! The time may come when it will be necessary to agree when the interested parties themselves will say that perhaps a different basis would be more right. And that's when I'm gonna say, "That's right, that's right. In fact, there is a year-to-year increase in living costs, which keeps the real level at hand. What's happened so far? So far, there are absolute things, absolute matters of some transfers - we have said earlier who advocates which. In fact, in this review, when I looked at the transfers, the union has nothing to discuss here, it is a matter of government and parliament to determine the role of policy as a social state and the role of social transfers. That is why, here, the emphasis on this social dialogue, I think, is completely pointless and the proposals coming from this side are completely pointless, because we always repeat the same things. I think that even trade unions, some of the participants in this social dialogue should find that time goes on and that certain things need to be accepted as different, are no longer in one world. Times are changing and needs to be adjusted. The world is a competitive world, and you can't keep up with certain things, you can't have certain things as much as the world you live in. This is the EU, it is a market economy that cannot allow some of the elements that we bring from what time and why, as I mentioned earlier, I do not know. I don't understand that we can't understand that when you eat, you eat, you don't work. Why don't we just say it and find out? I think it is very wise to agree on such a way of coordination, without unnecessary discussion, let us agree whether we have a lot of high scholarships, whether we have a lot of high-level stuff, or whether there is somewhere else to be given. We always have to find and be open to these things, it's our job to take care of the weak and give them the right standard. But most of all we will do for all our citizens if we ensure our economy's better competitive capacity. It is said that we will work harder to reduce public spending and thus come to a real basis for reducing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u241	Mr. Starman [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u242	in our country and a reduction in the cost of the country. [[...]] In short, I don't think we can really discuss this bill completely about all things. Method, I think it's very appropriate, and I think it's even more here if you add something else. But the other thing is, we make a deal and we save somewhere else. I think it's a methodology for change, not the basis for heights. We're talking about the methodology, the method, the way I think it's fair. And there can be no different political options now about this number - about this system differently. He's the same for all of us, whoever he is. And I think it's fair. There's one basis for not arguing for the next 10 years for something we don't have to argue about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u243	Before we go any further, I would like to ask again, we are talking about the amendments to Article 3. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. There's only so much to explain because I don't even have enough time. Once we reach European wage standards, including minimum wages, we will be able to talk about equality within the European Union. Thousands of euro is the minimum wage in Luxembourg, higher than in Slovenia. By the way, as far as coordination is concerned, coordination under this law. It is not a matter of coordination with the real growth of living needs, but it is a matter of alignment with the previous growth of living needs two years ago, or a comparison of the previous year even earlier. This is what will save the state budget and make people less.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u246	I think we need to explain immediately. If the basis for valorisation is in the past period, but inflation is declining or the increase in living costs is declining, then it is certainly a better basis from the past. That's what every mathematician will tell you. If you are counting, if you raise the valorisation this year on the basis of expectations, it is expected to be lower, thereby lowering the value. But if you put it on the base that was before when it was falling, then that's better. That's what anyone who has primary school education will tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek. Please, who has the word? Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. When I listen to these debates, when it comes to simplifying the coordination of social transfers, I wonder whether those of you who are discussing this are really underestimating people, citizens. You're talking about increasing poverty, increasing social disparities. All the measures we've been doing lately are going this way. Yes, because Sunday was a test of people's will and understanding! And look, Mrs Alja Brglez, who was also at Mr Rope's office sometimes - I think - says who are the biggest losers in the election. Social [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u249	Mr Jerovšek, we are not talking about the outcome of the vote, but we are talking about the amendment to Article 3. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u250	Social and Liberal Democrats. Here people have been saying how they understand the measures we are witnessing at this time. Do people see any future in that economic growth is growing, that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is growing. In any case, you would like to plant some chick under that wagon that goes on! And I don't know, I'm aware that social transfers during the period when you were in power were leveraged by the preservation of power, because the policy of 'divine er empire' to the different, huge finesse you had. It's huge. Some social transfers have also been a distinct privilege, but for a very small handful of people. And it seems to you that, with this policy, you could "share and rule" now, from the opposition, you could continue to mine everything that is possible, and that you could gather yourself with it to the people. No! No! People have said their words on Sundays and accept what analysts, who have been trained by you, find out. You haven't convinced people, and you can't convince them that way! That's why this unification is, I think, something useful. I think it's useful to remove some bureaucratic obstacles in this country, it's also something useful, it's all costing, huge, these bureaucratic obstacles that you've set up in the legislation in the previous period, it's all costing enormously, and it's coming out of the pockets of the poorest. And if we reduce it, more money will come into the pockets of the poorest, more will come on the table and more will potentially be possible to share it, and you fight against it. I think you have to believe people what they say about what they say in elections. Learn from what people have learned on Sunday, and you will begin to think positively.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek! Before I give the floor to another, I would like to remind you once again, we are talking about social transfers, how they should be aligned once a year, in January, with the rise in consumer prices in January - December. That's the amendment. Please, if we can discuss this. Please, Mr. Zagorac. What do you want, please? Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you. It seems that somehow it has become the custom of this government and the ministers in this government to insult Members of Parliament at once and after a long time. This happened yesterday with Minister Bajuk, when he called this Parliament "for spiders", this is happening - I will design a procedural proposal without worry - this is also happening. A trifle when he sends MPs to elementary school. I'm seriously aware that since he's been in elementary school for some time now, plus plus plus and minus and minus have remained the same. The election was on Sunday; "the cat blossomed when you stepped on her tail", so in the spirit of democracy I ask that you no longer allow the debate on the elections, but only on the amendment, and to warn any representative of the government that insults this House and these honourable Members of Parliament. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorac. If you were in the hall, then you heard me say we're not discussing the outcome of the election. But I would ask you if once I say something, if I'm conducting a session, please listen to me. Mr Potč, I have only tried to read the beginning of this amendment and to remind Members of the fact that we are discussing the two amendments to Article 3, I have not read the whole text. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I hope I don't go. I understand this amendment as a debate on the scope of social transfers and, of course, on the coordination of these and social transfers themselves, I see it as helping those who cannot help themselves, whether for health reasons, professional or professional competence, professional incompetence - whatever the case, and from this I come. I am aware that there is certainly a great deal of abuse of these social transfers, and I am against them myself, and I do not want the laws to be prepared to allow these abuses to happen, because I fully agree with all the speakers that there is no way that those who work honestly, even on a standard, can get less than different escalations can get through social transfers. But I warn you, this is the content of another law and, of course, we don't have to mix pears and apples here. Here, however, on the assumption that social transfers are intended for those, as I said in the introduction, we must not allow such harmonisations to be the most damaging to those who are the least likely to receive them. In doing so, I would like to point out another important fact that all these social transfers also have a very significant impact on regional development and on the possibility of faster regional development. We must be aware that those regions where the social situation of the population is more at risk, lower than others, lose more in all such laws than others. This makes it all the more difficult to achieve more coherent regional development for the less developed, socially disadvantaged regions, to develop faster and, of course, to capture those areas, those regions that are more developed. That is also why I will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you very much. That's what I said. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats often brings amendments that are not of a material nature and which should be supported by many. But this one's a little different. The amendment to Article 3 and I am convinced that the Group of Members is also aware of it in its content. Of course, some Slovenian families would be very happy if, as a recipient of transfers under the law on parental protection and family benefits, they would receive an enviable, better money to the family. But we also know that such an approach was not hoped to be given either by the Prime Minister who led the government before this, nor by the current one, nor will he hope to do so by the one who will lead the next government. From the capacity of the country, this is the situation; I am one of the few that I have opposed to moving on to the coordination of pensions firmly, only to the average wage growth, which is influenced on average by a number of factors that do not have much in common with this view. Of course, and here we are also further at the heart of the problem. The key losers are those who receive supplements for protection and service, or for assistance and service, a protective allowance, an annual allowance. That's the key. But one thing I say is that in these situations, as we are in terms of public finances, we must not do this. In view of the warnings of many institutions in Europe, the issue of coordination of pensions will also be hard, only with the growth of average wages, what is fast on the wallpaper. Whether this is pleasant or not, but it will be necessary, you will see. And as far as I can now reconcile all transfers with average growth or average wage growth, I think the pressure on the state budget is so high, and also indirectly on municipal budgets, that we simply cannot stand it. It's real. I understand that, if we are honest, including the rights that come from pension and disability insurance, whether this old pension will be invalid, these are rights, which are also guaranteed by the work of public funds, under Article 233 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, directly from the transfer of the state budget, so that these rights can be maintained and that the reconciliation of pensions can also be maintained directly with the average wage increase. And of course, this is where the question now arises whether we are, after all, just in this coordination. The fact is, as we are now coming to the coordination of all other transfers that are not related to the issue of pension coordination, that this is one type of unification or equal approach to all recipients of these transfers; it is fairer, more corrective. I am not now asking myself whether this move is to slightly reduce public spending because of this and what we have done, but, in principle, as an approach, I think it is the right one. However, it would certainly be a link between all these transfers and the average wage growth of some kind of gambling action. At this point, I wouldn't have hoped to suggest it, and any government would have been in the fire to take that responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you very much. So, there has been a reference to coordination in the past and now. I would like to make it very clear that in the Liberal Democracy we have been critical of the formula that this coalition has invented that relates to the coordination of pensions. At that time, we suggested that, if the coalition already has sufficient funds, finance to make such a move, because it may be problematic to increase the pensions of those with the lowest pensions and not fall into indexation. So, we proposed even an amendment at the time. But the fact is, at the time, you claimed you could afford it. And if you claim that you can afford this because of the public financial situation, then it is unfair to say today that in those who are most at risk, you cannot afford it and it is therefore fair to take it. It's not fair! If you have decided to give to the pensioners, give it to those who are the poorest. But you have no basis for giving 90 billion to those who are the richest. And that's the point of the problem. Of course, this does not solve the key problem of the long-term instability of Slovenian public finances. In the last report, the European Commission, as has been said, notes: Slovenia is at 4th place among 25 European countries at risk, 21 other European countries are less at risk than Slovenia. Moreover, if Slovenia does nothing, it will be in 2050, the second most risky country in Europe, the second largest share of expenditure for so-called "age related" expenditure, that is, expenditure that depends on the age of the population, and that is the problem. But it will be very difficult for us to talk about these problems if we have uneven standards. And that's what we're pointing out today, not the principle. We're in favour of uniting transfers, but if the funds are here, if there's enough. Then, in this context, this amendment of the Social Democrats is true. Firstly, it points to the problem, draws attention to the duality of your proposals, and at the same time gives you a proposal for a solution, of course, we should take it where it can be addressed. While it is true that the financial problems in this area, the area in which we are talking today, in terms of funding, in terms of public finances, are least, they are higher in pensions, they are higher in taxes, here are the smallest and that is exactly what you have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Please. There's no replica to the replica. You can come in later. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u260	Halla beautiful, Mr. President. This week is a very interesting week. We will adopt some laws, tax laws, minimum wages, harmonisation of social transfers and, of course, we remember what we did last year - on pensions. You will vote the minimum wage today by rejecting the veto of the State Council and aligning the minimum wage by 2% in 2006. So for the rate of inflation, as predicted by the government, no back-up adjustment. Social transfers, as you suggest today, will be aligned with inflation last year. So, at least with the reverse adjustment, without social transfers or the recipients of the minimum wage sharing the fate of Slovenia in its entirety. Thus, if Slovenia has growth, if prosperity increases in Slovenia, of course the beneficiaries of the minimum wage and recipients of social transfers should also be given part of this prosperity. This is the content of two laws that we adopt. One year and three months ago - I think in the summer months, in July, as a first measure, the government proposed a different harmonisation of pensions. Pensions on average salary. Thus, in the case of pensioners, you have estimated that it is right that their growth is linked to the way the economy is moving completely. All of this would still be logical and acceptable in some way. And if, in fact, last year, we were able to coordinate within the coalition and last year we would have adopted this law on the coordination of social transfers, maybe it wouldn't be such a big burka. Burke, who is this week, is that we have a fourth category, and these are the recipients of the highest net wages. After you decide on minimum wages today to rise by 2%, social transfers by 2.7% around, pensions by 5 to 6% at the annual level, about, then, of course today, by adopting the Income Act, you will achieve that the net wages of 10 000 will increase by 20%. That just doesn't work out. It doesn't work together. This is not the case with the annual income law giving us 30 billion, but here we are arguing how we will close the budget because the recipients of social transfers are the burden of the budget. Let me remind you what the Minister of Finance said yesterday. He said: no no, because there will be no need to raise VAT, we will come with austerity measures and we will reduce spending by 50 billion. Well, the first step is already ahead of us. I regret that DeSUS, like last year, did not insist on writing in the coalition contract - it says so that you have written down so that you will oppose all measures that will reduce the social situation of individual parts of society. You stopped that last year, at least you stopped it at the government. I don't know how you're gonna vote here. This year this law came with a package of budgetary legislation, with a package of tax legislation at a time when the ruling coalition parties also agree that the small group will receive 30 billion or more billion a year, 90 billion in a time when we save the poor 6 billion from those receiving social transfers. This is a duplicity, Mr Jerovšek. 6 billion will be the final effect in 2009. Look, Mr President, if you will calm the Member of Parliament so that I can say it to the end. We have a very vague, very opaque, and above all a two-faced policy of the government of Mr Janez Janša. He said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u261	Mr. Squeakle!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u262	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u263	I didn't say you were done, but please stick to the third article on the amendment. Please! The Minister of Finance wasn't here either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u264	Absolutely. I'll stick to it. See, Mr. Janez Janša, Mr. Janez Janša proposed an article of the law on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u265	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u266	Mr. Janez Janša has formed an article [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u267	Please calm down, or I'll stop the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u268	Mr Janez Janša, as Prime Minister, passed the Act on the coordination of social transfers with Article 3 for which the amendment is prepared. Mr Janez Janša accepted the government's proposal for a government veto of the state council, which opposes the different coordination of minimum wages. And Mr. Janez Janša proposed a different reconciliation of pensions and Mr. Janez Janša accepted Bajuk's proposal - I regret - did not know what he was doing, but I cannot help him to have a small group of people [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u269	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u270	I'm just saying, Prime Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u271	Please, we are talking only about the amendment to Article 3 of the Law and not about the law as a whole and not about what has been adopted by the Government on other matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u272	We are talking about the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the government, Mr Janez Drobnič, but Mr Prime Minister is Prime Minister and he must coordinate what different ministers bring him. And the Minister of Finance brought him one story, and Minister Drobnic brought him another story. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u273	Mr. Cwickl, we are talking about the content of the amendment to Article 3 and not the procedures [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u274	See, the content of the amendment to Article 3 is very simple. The content of the amendment to Article 3 is that SD representatives propose that Mr Janez Janša accept what he has done in the coordination of pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u275	Please, Mr. Squeakl in the amendment does not say anything like that and the amendment is exactly written. You got it today. Please read it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u276	The amendment states that transfers are coordinated in a manner and within the deadlines set out after coordination - with the coordination of pensions under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act proposed by the Government, which took place on 3 December 2005, led by Mr Janez Janša. And this amendment would help to ensure internal coherence between the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, we are in the National Assembly. No replicas. Anybody else want to discuss this?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u278	It's a replica. Yeah, if he mentioned me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u279	[[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Check-in is on. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u280	Mr. Vice President, I don't have one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u281	Mr. Brenčič, just a moment. Please, calm down, we are in the National Assembly and continue seriously with the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u282	I have no intention of making fun of the rules of procedure, of the rules of the game in this high assembly, not of you, who must somehow lead the session in such a situation. But I don't want to talk about the richest people either, because this amendment and this marriage don't tange or mention them in anything. I understand my colleague Rob's performance, because he, on the one hand, also reasoned on the arguments why he did not at some point hope to decide on such a way of coordination, and I probably wouldn't hope today. But it's something else. If we coordinate certain, I will say, rights for those to whom this right belongs under a certain law after a certain level of zero transfer, for those who are bound by the rise in public sector wages, for others who have a completely related right practically the same law, and for those who have an average increase in the price of living needs. This is not right for me, it is not fair for these two practically citizens, who are being served with the purpose of some social sustainability from the same law out. And in this respect, it is right that this coordination should be unified. In this sense, I think it is a law with a legitimate purpose. It is clear, however, that if all of these transfers are now linked to the starting ground for the coordination of pensions, and that the former Prime Minister, Mr Rop, would not hope to do so, even now, if he had led the government, I would not hope to do so - I don't know, perhaps, Mr Rob, later in the next term. I'm sure we're right, but I'm not interested in rich people, but I'm not interested in Sunday's elections and so on, but that's the situation at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Robbery, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u284	Of course, I certainly need to respond to this intervention. So it's not about whether someone hopes or not. And today I wanted to talk about it, and I talked about it. It is a matter of assessing which of the savings instruments we sometimes use and which of the savings instruments is most appropriate at a given time. And what I'm explaining here today is that saving at the poorest at this point is completely inappropriate, because the public financial situation is relatively favourable, because in some other places we give completely, in my opinion of course, I can be wrong, needlessly - I was talking about 90 billion. And let me comment on that for a second -- it wasn't that we didn't hope. We, instead of pursuing these transfers, have gone to public sector wages and have set a different indexation for public sector wages than before, if you will remember. We have agreed with the social partners to align these with wages, with European inflation and partly with price increases. In short, we have made a formula that has made it possible to reduce wage growth in the public sector. And it seemed to us that this was much more meaningful than saving on the poorest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Those who talk about pensions and this law seem to me to be actually mixing pears and apples. Pensions must be something other than solidarity contributions. Pensions are something that was created on the basis of work and on the basis of contributions paid, and it is perfectly logical to align them with wage growth. This is perfectly logical; it is clear to us; I do not know if this is difficult to understand, but as regards the contributions of solidarity referred to in this law, it is in fact illogical to coordinate in different ways. [[...]] I don't understand where the logic is for these contributions to be coordinated in different ways, once a year, one twice a year, one more time a year. What logic? I have not heard any argument here in front of the Slovenian public accompanying us, and of course all of you know that they are now transfers, so some of them are also talking so passionately to argue why different ways of coordination are needed. And here the minister made it clear that after this single coordination of monetary social assistance, children's allowances, unemployment benefits do not change. We can discuss here if these allowances are high enough if the unemployment benefits are high enough - these are purely other matters. We can talk about this, and we can talk about the need to increase this solidarity in the future if wages are to grow, including these benefits. And these are the steps that await us in the coming period and there is no reason for economic growth in Slovenia to be high and if we can do so, we will not increase these contributions of solidarity by actually increasing them. There is no argument, however, between LDS and SD gentlemen, that you advocate that we must coordinate these contributions of solidarity in different ways. In fact, this coordination in various ways this system of work is inexcusable, it takes a lot of red tape, a lot of people deal with it, the minister has to coordinate with the social partners indefinitely, what you ask him to do. Finally, there is no effect, and we therefore support the fact that this matter is being simplified by law, and this is also one of the reform measures to relieve unnecessary ballast and unnecessary bureaucracy and all that has come from this multitude of laws that have been passed in the past. And just one more thing for the end, I remember, dear colleague Rob, you talk about this today, every so long, about the rich and so on. You had the same bitter talk when we were correcting the taxation of capital gains, when Minister Bajuk here suggested that it should not be taxed with 40%, but with the 20s and he argued why. Yesterday I was not present in the National Assembly, but I watched a little on TV how these discussions were going, and you said that on this basis tax revenues increased in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And that with the planned 180 million for 60 billion more. As a result of the then adopted law here in Parliament; and you, Mr. Cwickl and Mr. Rob, have also been bitterly advocated here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u287	Mr. Sok, please take a look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u288	I'll be done. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u289	if we now repeat what happened and move out of the context of the debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u290	I'll end it, you're right, but because the Slovenian public are talking and offering some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u291	Please stop this and talk about the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u292	Of course, I had to say what was true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Rob, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u294	Thank you. Of course, I thank Mr. Sok for allowing me to do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u295	I'm sorry, I'd have said that before. Excuse me. Mr. Sok, you debated, you didn't have a replica, so there's no replica to the replica. As much as I care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u296	So, if I go in line. At first, it was said that I discussed the capital profit tax yesterday, of course, that is not true, because I did not discuss it yesterday, you made a slight mistake. You were also wrong about the law, you probably thought about the corporate income tax, and there was a discussion that the income from the corporate income tax had changed, and this is an essential difference that the Slovenian public would know that you quoted the wrong law. As far as pears and apples are concerned, you're probably a bigger expert than me for pears and apples, but I assure you, we don't mix pears and apples, that you may at least mix them in this case. So you can't say that these two are completely different things, on one side of the pension, on the other side of all of this because it's in this marriage. If you are consistent, then you need to know that also sick are the benefits that are paid on the basis of sickness insurance, and this insurance is paid on the basis of wages. So, more than wages are growing, more income from the health insurance agency is increasing, more resources are available for these sick people and those who are sick for more than 30 days, and the current law is followed by a proportionate proportion and this is theirs. What are you doing with this marriage today? They have to pay in accordance with the growth of their salaries, and you will pay the sick according to the price increase and you will take away so many and so sick from them each month. And so these aren't pears and apples. If you are interested in prices and wages, then I suggest you look at what you sent to the National Assembly as a government, budget 2007 and 2008, with a macrofiscal scenario where your government tells you exactly how the prices are going to go up and how the salaries are going to go up and you will see that it pays as a rule and that is totally worldwide and fortunately we will also get it up by about 2% to 3% faster than the prices. And that's the difference you're exhibiting today, and that's what those who are the poorest will pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janz, please. Yes, Master Squeakle, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u298	My replica is connected to someone who usually sits in a seat where someone sat and is also like the one in the health department who made the same mistake. Minister Bajuk brought something with Minister Bručan who should have prevented this from being mentioned again, but allowed the wrong coordination of the sick and the wrong, inappropriate interference with the health treasury, because you are closing the budget in such a way that you are taking the sick and taking the health treasury. It's a bad policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. This medium has a tremendous impact on today's debate. I didn't even know it was happening before, but now I see it. [[...]] [[Laughs and melodramatics.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] I must say that this law or amendment has a good purpose. This amendment, proposed by colleagues from the Social Democrats, seems to me to be populist, simply put. Let's do more, it's better that we be the real Social Democrats. Sounds good, there's nothing normal, because who doesn't want their fellow citizens anymore. Everyone. But, obviously, we're not coming together today. One of you has just the same thing, one of us has the same thing, and obviously we're all on our beach, each one of us says what's better for yours or what's better for ours. But I am deeply convinced if I want to be somewhere else in order that this proposal for coordination is corrected. I think that's the criteria for drinking water. And who would have liked to say, let's do more, there's not enough, let's give it to people. Oh, thank God. It is true that we are fighting for these rights and it is right that they have them, etc., many of them, and it is right that this is also being properly discussed in the National Assembly, where there is also a place for this. It is true, however, that we never discuss the duties of these same citizens. Do they also have any responsibilities toward this society? This is what I used to say to Mr Potts, that even these people, some of them may, I say, should also go to work, to work and to work. And if we worked harder, we'd get more. Simple math. We're back to where we used to be. I'm sorry. I'm not gonna break this amendment. I will support the government because I think it is right, and this law has a good purpose, to coordinate these matters, to make this thing transparent. I believe that this law will be passed and will give all these beneficiaries one reasonable payment for their rights under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Check-in is on. Here you go, please. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u302	Thank you very much. You don't want to, but you really don't want to, because this has been highlighted several times, to admit and to understand that no one objects that we, too, are preparing a uniform way of coordinating the government. No one's objecting. We are discussing whether the proposed method of coordination for certain rights and differences for others is correct. Once again, it's not corrected. There is no wise and justifiable reason for different ways of coordinating. In order for coordination, by the method applicable to the coordination of pensions, to mean more, I agree. It is only, then, that we still need to assess whether it is correct that we have different ways of coordinating. And we're saying that's not right. Second. If it is not true that the government wants, in addition to the single methodology for coordination, - which I say again - we accept - to reduce the deficit in the treasury, and this deficit is also due to tax legislation, mainly due to the law on income. That's not my opinion. Yesterday we talked about this, and it was said that, with the decisions we made, we are further deepening this deficit by over 2 billion, and I believe this statement only at the lower level, I think it is significantly bigger because it was said 'with the left hand' and'so, from the sleeve', before that was a talk about about about about about about about 28 billion, then we have to make up for it somewhere. And I would accept that if the government came with a neutral proposal, I would say: well, in order for this proposal to be neutral, harmonising coordination in terms of price increases, but in one part also corrected by wage growth, so that we will not save those 1.8 billion in 2007. This would be very easy to do and then I would believe that this is really because of the system, not because the system is an excuse for us to go to reduce these social transfers. And we want to say that this is not a correctional proposal. Or we want an even clearer statement from all of you to say that those who are at the social bottom receiving social transfers can still be lagging behind. They can be behind! And that's two different policies, once you talk about family policy, secondly you reduce family benefits in this way, once you're not true, well. [[...]] Of course it's true. Listen, they're going to shrink on average, and it's simply impossible to hide, and that's what you want to show me. Find a new system and a new way of uniform coordination that will not affect these groups. But who's involved, and you know it. You will also affect pensioners with this: through the annual allowance, through the allowance for assistance and service, invalidity, all those who receive the protective allowance. We were talking about compensation for temporary absence from work. Yes, Mr Minister, they say that there is a particular problem, but the particular problem is where someone gets from two or three years ago still the basis for the disease, but it has been, or is now, formally located in a company that has experienced a lot of crisis and has concrete people in a similar workplace who can still have a smaller salary today. I don't mind that we're trying to regulate this, but this is one case that's being dealt with specifically in general. However, don't tell me that those who receive 80% or 70% of the compensation for the sick, maybe two years ago, but at that time nominal wages increased by 4 to 5% each year to be better if the sick person were to be coordinated 1 times a year with price increases, not with wages. These are simple inventions that do not hold and that are far from the truth. Therefore, it is possible to see populism, Mr Janc, of course, everyone has this right to say. Like I have the right to say, it's pure deception if you're saying that you're doing this for the principles when you're doing it for the money. Tell me, we're working for money and we want to, we're willing to give a lot to one group through the Income Act and the other group, which is anyway at the lowest, to take the difference. If you have the nerve to say it, we'll say it's your policy, and we won't be making any more populist proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u304	Thank you very much. In this last debate and once again, I would like to stress that you need to change the tone of social demagogies. It did not accept the people of this demagogies, even though you are masters and have been convinced your whole life that you are masters of social demagogies. And also what you are advocating here, the confusion in regulating social transfers, without criteria, as has already been highlighted, is part of the policy you have been leading for 70 years or how long now. It's part of the system. However, this system is in fact no longer functioning or is a different system, and people have mass acceptance of the need for transparency in the allocation of money. There was no, and Mr Squeakl had previously confirmed that under the previous government, Mr Rob had decided everything because he said he would now write everything Janša. Or as a minister, I miss the former minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u305	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u306	Vice-President deputised, Mr Lahovnik [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u307	Mr. Jerovšek! Mr. Jerovšek! Please, very nice. Please stick to the debate on the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u308	You didn't stop Mr. Squill before, and be correct! Everyone here is committed to introducing some transparency in coordination. You're all up against it. And they are also taking on, which is particularly surprising to me, that it was previously stated that as a criterion it should not have been taken as a criterion to increase the cost of living for a year, year and a half or two years ago, as envisaged, but some future increase in the cost of living as mentioned earlier by a colleague. This is a lack of confidence that in this country it will always be better to see this increase in the cost of living actually falling. And if it's taken back, they're better off than if it were after a liquid growth. This is actually confidence in Yugoslavia, where prices were higher every day, living costs were higher every day. This is a strong confidence in Yugoslavia, the former, and the way it was then. As a result, I firmly believe that even though you are, as I say, masters of this social demagogism, this time the people will not listen to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I have only a question for the Group of Social Democrats, which has been in charge of this area for 12 years. Why did she allow such different ways to be coordinated all the time? What's the reason? Some groups appear to have been slightly more privileged through this. That's the other reason I can't find it. I mean, that means she gave more to this department, which is totally irrational. On the other hand, as has been said several times before, this also certainly means supporting certain social partners, which, in my opinion, are not. Someone used to refer to unions. We can look at the law, but we can also look at the real situation that some unions in this country are still doing. This is still an exposition of certain policies. This must also be said when it comes to negotiations with the social partners. That's right. I'm so sorry. In fact, until we get the right social partners, so long this debate, I will say, actually also populist from this direction, that these are actually the only possible interlocutors in this society. But if the social partners do, I will say, in this case, who represent workers' rights, they are not able to agree with employers, and then they were all called to the government. It's nothing but a very tight policy. This clearly shows who these social partners are. And that's the problem in Slovenia, still. Because they have a policy behind them. We hear the matter today specifically from our fellow Members here, on the right. Therefore, I find this simplification, which the Minister proposes, perfectly logical. I think the Ministry and the Ministry must deal with very operational matters and solve problems quickly. On the other hand, I do not understand colleagues from the Liberal Democracy who boast that they have brought us to Europe, but at some meetings we listen to the reminders given by the European Commission after long-term financial sustainability. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u311	Mr. Kokalj [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u312	the main finances and, on the other hand, they dispute the measures proposed by the Government in this direction. [[...]] That's what I think is duality, here and there. It is truly well known that today there is television broadcasting and that we obviously have the need or the need, for the first time today, I am discussing, inevitably, things that I think do not drink water. I think the government has finally proposed one concrete solution that will reduce these sufferings and ensure rapid negotiations and swift decisions, because we urgently need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Waste, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u314	Thank you. Well, let me answer your esteemed colleague Kokali that he has issues with numbers. We had our Minister for Social Democrats in the government for four years. But it's for New Slovenia, and for someone else, it's obvious he's having problems with numbers. I would therefore like to point out that the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 3 of the proposed law, if you want to read it, see that it adopts the basic objective of this law as a uniform way of accounting for social transfers. The one in which we differ is the way to capture this coordination. The problem is the argument. Let us now allow the Government or the Ministry of Justice, Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure, to abuse when the urgency procedure argued, is the first poor argument. However, another poor argument is this, the proposal states that the bill has an impact on public finances, means savings in public funds for transfers to individuals in households in the Republic of Slovenia, and then further argues that it has no impact on the social situation of individuals. This is difficult to accept as a logical exercise of the first claim that savings are savings, but that will not affect individuals. We have heard, however, from a respected colleague of Brenčič, who mentioned at least three transfers, for whom he himself considered that such a proposed mode of coordination would constitute an intervention in the amount of the transfer. There's more of them. I know that you have changed the numbers from September 25th to what we now have invested on September 28th, so about 400 million goes in just one year, but let us understand that the Council of State has also reminded you that some of the social transfers that you will coordinate in this proposed way are not in the way proposed by the Social Democrats, which will affect 60,000 beneficiaries receiving financial social assistance, 26,000 beneficiaries receiving aid and services, that we will not then talk about 4 thousand others who have benefits from disabled persons, etc. How you will move the numbers, and it is also time to talk about it in the budget. Taking the poor to give to another poor man isn't likely what you're saying that these things won't hurt people. Simplification or I must say: unification - yes, but the way of this unification is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u315	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u316	I would like to apologize to Mrs Troutti and the Group of Members. True, I was wrong, but because we saw you as a block all the time for 12 years, we can say that you generally had an impact on this area, but now I remember that Mr Rop was also Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u317	Mr. Mag. Genius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will support this amendment for a simple reason because it interferes with an area that does not mean social transfers, which we agree must finally be achieved in order to coordinate in the same way. Of course, this is the same way for some worsening situations, because some are already aligned with life costs, but some are not. But if it is to achieve the same way once, then it must be supported. However, we have already said that we see this deterioration and these savings at this point in time as possible, if the state finds that it is not different, it is necessary to accept this because it is an area of solidarity that is as large as we can afford it. However, when it comes to the rights paid by health insurance contributions, I am talking about the diseases, but it is really about stealing employees, the moment they are affected and sick. To say that it is necessary to do so and to limit the rights of the sick or to reject them in growth in line with the growth of wages only because some abuse sickness and do not work is not fair. I am firmly convinced that this can be resolved in a different way, it is a matter for doctors and commissions to decide on the hospital stock, not a matter for those who try to exploit it. So that I, because of the few individuals who take advantage of sickness and who do not work, could work, this should not be the basis for all to reduce the income derived from sickness. And this is something other than the coordination of transfers that we said was a matter of solidarity, similar to the pensions that were paid by contributions and are not due to the previous work and are not included in this coordination. So that if it turns out that the amendment will not receive the necessary support and will be sick of equal coordination with the growth of living costs, then we cannot support the law as a whole, because it is an attack on the active population by a country that does not really care about how they pay the sick, in accordance with the Assembly's decision, namely health insurance from the income of this insurance. This is, I would say, an integration of the state into a system that is autonomous in this sense, because we know that it does not contribute to health care as well as to the state so far. More and more, patients are contributing more and more, especially if it goes as far as it goes, but in the field of health, things are not being resolved in a way that is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u320	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Nor do I feel the need to support the amendment of the Social Democrats, because it seems to me that the proposed law is purely right and that, above all, it prevents or substantially reduces the potential for the various abuses that have taken place so far. In doing so, it also says that the social partners in the agreements so far have not achieved anything, because I think that things have not done well either. However, I would also like to say that I am totally in agreement with my colleague, Jance, and I myself know cases where people were very happy, if they did not get the job or if you needed to stay on the list, you have to take the job every now and then. I was informed of the case when on the first day of his six - month trial work, he knew that he would be the happiest when these six months were over, or if he could be forgiven for uncriminal reasons earlier. I would also like to draw attention to the following information: Slovenia, it seems to me that I have traced the data 15 days per employee per year of the hospital to hit negative records in the European Union, where working standards or attitudes towards work are completely different than we used to and inherited it from the former country. We know, in the former country, or this ugly habit is being carried out to this day, we have so-called seasonal hospitals, we have work in the hospital, we have increased hospital at the expense of a basket, we have increased hospital at the time of harvesting, and yet the law goes hand in hand with some of the efforts of big companies in Slovenia that have already learned the importance of abstention and my experience in recent years when I worked at the Sava Tiers factory, this is at the Goodyer branch in Kranj, where they had a program to reduce illness or a program to reduce accidents at work. Thus, a competition was developed between the profit centers, which for the longest time was without injury at work. In addition, the growing minor injuries that previously provided for the hospital did not guarantee that there was no need to go to work. So it could have happened that you still went with your hand in the cast to a lecture on job protection, about the company's culture, or about the technological progress of the company. Therefore, as I say, I will not support the amendment, but I strongly agree with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! I will support this law, the amendment proposed by my colleagues and colleagues from SD, does not make sense to me. However, from a high policy, I would go down to the real ground, to the level of the payment sheet or envelope, at home. Look, if you're a simple worker today, I'll say again in the textile industry, the manufacturing worker, asking if he can calculate his salary, of course, will be the answer: no. Similarly, if any of us in this room ask if anyone can calculate the salary - the salary may be, but the remuneration of the salary, I will say in particular, during the hospital absence, perhaps those who are even being reimbursed by the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, I am sure the answer will be just as negative. What we achieve, say, if we accepted a system of wage coordination every month, some have even proposed, even though I do not understand it, even further. What do we do with this, even if the worker gets 200 tolars more, he'll say, yeah, this month's salary is a little higher, next month's gonna be a little lower. I'll tell you from experience, and I've calculated a few hundred thousand wages, of course not on foot, and the worker will say, "I'm crazy again, I never get the same salary." Today we still count every month so-called factors, correctional, revalorative or whatever. But we are not the last in the European Union, we are practically in the European Monetary Union, where we also have an obligation to prevent or control inflation. Some crazy inflation is no longer at the level of the European Union. And I think, that's what I'm hoping to say here, I'd rather see a worker who can calculate his salary, and he'll be sure that the employer didn't bring it around than to get 200 tolars every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u324	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This week we hear two words as a chronic document when we discuss laws. In tax laws, we have heard the argument of the word "simplification of procedure" and we have been listening all day to these laws, which we are adopting today, "unification of the procedure". And there's only one thing under the heading of these two - all of these laws and these things are about redistribution of budgetary resources, and here's the whole catch. And how the reallocation of these budget funds takes place through the debate and discussion this week: on the one hand, we grab these little things in bulk so that on the other hand, we can spread it and waste it. I don't want to talk about it because you've talked about it to people who are poorer, we take it, and we give it to the richer. I would also like to comment on this social dialogue, which is so controversial. I have a model and I suggest that today's debate has also shown that you are not the right social partners, I suggest that you be four parties to the coalition social partners, together with the management that has been put in the economy for the past two years, which are employers, sit together and make up your mind. And I don't think there's really gonna be any problem with you coming up with coordinated proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u326	Thank you very much. A few answers to a question or statements. Again to those who say everything is as it is. Representatives of all three parties agreed that the harmonisation of methods of coordination is also necessary in the field of disease, as the current system allows for anomalies, especially in the case of long-term diseases, to even exceed the amount of wages the employee would otherwise receive if he were in the workplace during a long-term illness. In particular, and several times, it has been stressed that anomalies are also different bases for calculating hospital benefits and should be uniformised. Here is the diagnosis, honourable Members, Mr Žnidaršič, what the disease is, what it is, unity. The government could have decided that the basis for valorising all these transfers would be wage growth in the public sector. What would happen? As growth is lower than rising prices of living needs, the standard would fall. The government has decided to take the right approach to maintain a standard of living, no matter what happens. It was interesting to think of Mr Starman. In the euro transfer, the government is not predicting, but it has been considering what would happen if prices were to rise and wages would not. In this case, all benefits of social transfers are better compared to those at work. But the goal of transfers is to ensure social security and consistent growth with the cost of living. It is essential to social transfers, it is their property and that is why this principle is true. Not the rising pension. Something else can happen there, but it's definitely the right instrument. For compensations, maternity leave was an instrument for the growth of basic wages in the public sector. You've made a mistake because they're damaged because they don't achieve an increase in the cost of living. You see, for some good reason, you've ruined things. Besides, it's about the valorizations. Some countries have no valorisations. For instance, Austria has no valorisation for certain segments. You can look at me like that, she doesn't. It's about the sick. The disease generally lasted up to one year. To all those up to one year - nothing changes, even if this principle increases the cost of living or increases wages. One or the other has no effect. So everyone who's on sick leave for up to one year, one or the other, it doesn't matter. The question is over one year. But I told you about this, what is the position of the social partners? The unions have advocated this principle. When they found out how much savings there were, however, they said that it was nothing and that they did not insist on it anymore or that they did not agree with it. Yeah, you know, a little bit different! Coordination on how it was on September 28th and August 5th, these calculations, I believe that in some parties, sent groups, you get calculations before the Minister gets them, because you have some colleagues in my ministry. But it's okay, at least you've been informed in time. I don't see any problems here, at least the discussion is more lively and interesting. Social dialogue - yes! But I wonder, of course, the social dialogue in Slovenia. This is an important matter. However, if you are asking the Minister to comply absolutely with all student organisations, absolutely with all unions, with all non-governmental organisations - do we not overreact a little? Then why do we have a government? We're trying to coordinate! But if all of this were to be reconciled, why would it be a national convention? Why, then? Why do you take your part too, since we have aligned 25 of the 28 regulations? Two of them were not harmonised in one article, with regard to the composition of the boards of institutions, and this was not sick, and we proposed exactly what was necessary. So, social dialogue. I wonder, of course, why some do not want to admit that those who participate in dialogue, that we have done much, and why we should be such a failure to respect our achievements because it is. Why say it's nothing? It is. Would it not be utopian to expect the National Assembly to adopt all of them unanimously? It would be. With regard to these monetary social assistance and some other fundamental transfers - nothing changes! Please be precise and look at the law; the system does not change, as it has been so far, because this instrument is identical to coordination. So we could decide one way or another. It is most appropriate with the increase in the cost of living, these are the arguments. In that document, which was then, as I recall, this principle is fundamental - with the growth of living costs - the most neutral, because social transfers are designed to ensure social security. See also the services that happen in social protection when you mention certain transfers are typical: aid and service allowance, which means service delivery. Or the treasure in some way. In these services prices are somehow separated after the cost of living increases. In nursing homes, we follow these goals and these principles. And social transfers, the ones you mention, are to cover these costs. That means they're adequate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I conclude on the amendments to Article 3 and we are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 3a. Anybody want to talk? Please report. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u328	Thank you very much. In the proposal for an amendment, as adopted on the home working body, Article 3a introduces the harmonisation of compensation for the sick in the same way as all other social transfers are coordinated. It's unacceptable to us. First of all because it's an insurance right. This is an insurance principle and the state should not interfere with the way these relations are regulated by reducing rights. Secondly, unreasonable, incomprehensible, conscious deception is to talk about the fact that there are no consequences in both ways of coordination. That there is no difference whether someone is waiting for a change in the base for the diseased one year and this is aligned with the increase in the price of living needs in the last two comparable years, or whether it is aligned with the growth of average wages in the previous month. If anyone hopes to say that and stay alive, unless he's a minister who can say anything, then I don't understand it. And that's what we want to point out. At this point, there is such a radical difference that is not acceptable, which interferes with insurance relations and affects the rights enjoyed by insured persons. That is why, I would say, this principle cannot be resolved simply by a few half-truths that have been expressed here by the Minister, but by another Member. You can't say everything at the same time. I, in a way, must say, am really dismayed when I hear such statements in my mind in such an important marriage. I would expect more efficiency and more correctness. I am sorry that there is no Minister when it comes to correctness; the statement he made about his fellow workers is an offensive accusation. Mr. Secretary shouldn't have afforded it. This suggests the ease of his character, which he may think that because of the function he has, he can accuse anyone who is not here who can't defend himself, which is a pure lie, what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. Well, I will definitely support the amendment. For what has happened on the working body of the mother has been introduced a new 3a. The article, of course, discusses how important and necessary social dialogue is in Slovenia, as this article speaks about it. We know that the Health and Health Insurance Act opens this chapter and does not close. And today, we are saying that it is pointless to talk about social dialogue in connection with these social transfers, this article is a typical example of how to avoid failed social bargaining and from another area, i.e. from a completely different area in this law, which deals with the coordination of social transfers to households and individuals, introduces a provision which should not have any connection in this law. Why is it necessary to add an important weight to this? For we, with our contributions, follow the growth of wages. With our contributions, we are following the growth of wages, and in this way we are making a percentage of the allocation to the health treasury. However, the rights that go from this and are enshrined in the law, and in the law that this article also states here, namely the Health and Health Insurance Act, it establishes coordination on a completely different basis. This means that the health allowance will be filled faster with contributions, while the rights will be reduced here. In the course of this debate, I would also like to draw attention to another story that we will encounter in the law on the implementation of the budget, where certain budget items are precisely set out, i.e. 2.7 billion, we are transferring from the budget obligation, from the legal obligation of the budget to the health treasury, without having the possibility to decide on this issue by the social partners. These are the things we're talking about today that's this marriage. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Inadequate for getting confirmation here today, and this article is actually talking about the failure of social bargaining, and that is why I will be the amendment of the social partners [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I conclude the debate on the amendment by 3a. Article 1(2) We are moving on to the amendments to Article 6, and there are two amendments. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which, according to the meeting's time frame, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.20 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE EMPLOYMENT LAW ON THE REHABILITATION OF DISABILITIES BY A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The total time of the debate is 50 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The amendment of the Act on the Employment Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities is necessary due to the implementation of the quota scheme for the employment of persons with disabilities. All proposed changes relate exclusively to the implementation and control of the implementation of the quota system, which is essential for maintaining the quota system for the employment of persons with disabilities. With effect from 1 January 2007, it is no longer possible to meet the quota between the related companies, as this means easier control over the implementation of the quota system. The recovery procedure for non-compliance with the quota by the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia is also supplemented. It is also new to relieve employers of the application of pension and disability benefits for persons with disabilities who are employed above the quota. The Fund for the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities shall obtain data from official records. It is also proposed to amend Articles 74 and 75 of the Law, so that direct budgetary users are no longer entitled to exemption from contributions to pension and disability insurance and not to an award to exceed the quota. Amendments to the law also extend the control of the use of exempt contributions for pension and disability insurance to ordinary employers and the implementation of contracts for business cooperation with disabled companies or employment centres for the replacement of quotas. The bill was also coordinated with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u333	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Committee also considered the law in question at its 19th meeting, 5.10.2006. Representatives of the proposer with the Secretary of State, Mrs Marjetko Cotman, Legal and Chamber of Commerce and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. No comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service to the law in question. An amendment to Article 2 of the four coalition groups was tabled in the bill, while this amendment was then supplemented by an amendment to this amendment adopted by the Committee. Thus, this amendment is also an integral part of the amended bill. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u335	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, Mr Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u336	Say good-bye again! Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry. The Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which has been in preparation for more than 10 years and adopted in May 2004, introduced a comprehensive system of employment for persons with disabilities. The law has increased the employability of persons with disabilities by means of employment rehabilitation, increased employment opportunities for persons with disabilities in suitable jobs, the possibility of adjusting working time, the possibility of providing other appropriate work also with another employer, post-protection employment, support employment and disabled companies. Employment incentives for shorter working hours, work at home, distance work, work with information and communication equipment at work and greater protection of employment for disabled persons are provided. The law has introduced ways of encouraging and not only blackmailing employers to increase the employment of disabled people by introducing a quota system and various financial incentives for employers and employees with disabilities. The law was urgently needed as it proved that only active employment policy measures and the establishment of disabled companies could not reduce the number of people with disabilities, which represented more than 10% of the total number of unemployed. For the second time in this mandate, we are amending and supplementing this law. In doing so, the first proposed novel has shown the Government's intention after changes to the content of the law, some of which have not yet fully recovered in practice. Thus, the first amendment of the law raises the question of the eligibility to introduce amendments to the law, particularly in those parts that have not been directly linked to compliance with other laws and regulations. The first novel was evidence that changes are being introduced over the thumb without the necessary analysis of the situation and clear justification for the need for change. Therefore, the full evaluation of the law, and in particular of the individual measures introduced, cannot be complete. As a result, some of the proposed changes were without clear and reasoned reasons. One of the key measures in the law is the quota system. It is the duty of employers to employ the required number of disabled persons. Any employer with more than 20 employees is thus obliged to employ disabled persons under a specific quota as from 1 January of this year. The first experience shows that employers have adopted and implemented the quota system in the majority. However, the current situation does not allow for the full and effective implementation of the law, but in particular it is necessary to monitor the intentional use of funds for the exemption of pension and disability contributions for persons with disabilities who are employed by employers over a prescribed quota. Since the implementation of the law, in particular the quota system, has shown that the current provisions do not fully allow for the introduction of the law, the LDS Member Club agrees to introduce amendments addressing the following issues: the duty to employ persons with disabilities, the so-called quota, the payment for non-compliance with the quota, the exemption of the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and the supervision of their consumption. At the same time, we hope and wish that there will be changes and additions to laws in the parliamentary procedure when there are actual needs that will be based on evaluation studies and analyses and not only on changes due to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The purpose of the proposal for amendments to the Employment Rehabilitation Act is to enable more effective implementation of the law. The changes concern, in particular, the duties of employment of persons with disabilities, payments for non-compliance with the quota and the arrangements for the exemption of contributions to pension and disability insurance and the supervision of their consumption. The practice so far shows that employers employ people with disabilities more than is prescribed by the regulation, which is of course very encouraging. Employers also make a number of decisions to promote incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities, enabling them to do so. With the proposed amendments, each employee with at least 20 employees becomes a separate undertaking to comply with the regulation of the quota. Employers may be exempt from the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, which will cover the budget, for persons with disabilities who exceed the prescribed quota of 20 persons. Direct users will not be entitled to a prize to exceed the quota. The law was coordinated with the social partners and the Economic and Social Council. We will also support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u340	On the basis of the actual assessment of the situation or actual employment of persons with disabilities in practice, we can say in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that this situation is precisely based on the Act on Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, particularly when we think of the hard reality that governs the labour market with all the effects of global globalisation. When the basic law came into existence, we also had questionable views on the introduction of the quota system, but it was good for the well-being of disabled people among employers and has also become effective. However, on this issue, in practice, there are problems in paying obligations to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to promote employment when the employer does not employ the prescribed quotas, and they are adequately addressed by this amendment. In addition, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment or on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities also introduces additional control over the purposeful use of funds which the State devotes to encouraging employers to also work through the law of the quota. In this regard, those who are direct users of the state budget are not entitled to these incentives following the amendment of the law proposed. The Emissary Group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u341	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.20 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day - that's a second defensively proposed law on supplementation of the law on the registration of rights. The total time of the debate is 40 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Mr. Mag. Zinraj Bell, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u342	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The proposed amendment of the law on registering electoral rights is intended to enable the exercise of the electoral right of as many citizens of Slovenia as possible who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, so-called emigrants or foreigners. The current regime allows the registration of electoral rights by official duty to those nationals who sign off on their permanent residence from the Republic of Slovenia. However, citizens residing abroad who have left the country before the law is enforced shall be registered on the basis of a request. The proposed provision fully establishes the maintenance of registers of electoral rights under official responsibility for all citizens residing abroad and, of course, the competent authorities have data on the title of permanent residence abroad, as well as on the title from which voters exercise electoral rights in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the addition of the law does not alter the current regime in any way, as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who reside permanently abroad and are not yet registered in the register of electoral rights, may request entry into this register. The establishment of a register of the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence with us is foreseen during the six-month period, namely, at the first stage of the official records kept by the competent authorities, a real register of the permanent population, a home registry, a record of the issued travel documents. In addition, the records would be supplemented by data from the diplomatic and consular offices of Slovenia, and finally the missing DKP data would also be obtained from nationals living abroad. In order to establish this record and, of course, to obtain data, the government does not provide for additional costs or additional employment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u343	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. That is why I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u344	A nice welcome to the Prime Minister and also to the representative of the Ministry, to fellow Members and to fellow Members. At its 25th session, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the law on registering electoral law. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposers, State Secretary of Mag. Zinraj's bell, set out the essential goals, principles and main solutions that we have just heard. A representative of the legislative and legal service who took the opinion of this service took part in the meeting and said that the legislative and legal service had no comments on the proposed text. In the debate, the members and members of the committee almost unanimously supported the proposal of the law, which will enable the exercise of electoral rights to the widest possible circle of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, while also contributing to the strengthening of relations and the maintenance of contacts with our relatives abroad. However, the following questions were raised regarding the proposed additions, in particular with regard to Article 2, after which the competent authority established a register of the electoral rights of nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia following its official duty within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act. Here the question has been raised as to what this deadline actually means, given that it is a relatively large number of people, sometimes complex cases, whether this deadline is of an instructional nature and what it means to implement this law, especially for new citizens without permanent residence in our country. The explanation explained by the applicant that this is not an instructional period for the Ministry of the Interior to carry out this task with the competent authorities, in particular the administrative units, because it already has most of the data, so that they will remain essentially for processing only some of the most controversial issues, which will, of course, be determined by the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Furthermore, the question was raised in view of the fact that the scope of work in diplomatic-consular offices and some other bodies would significantly increase whether they would therefore have to employ additional workers; therefore, whether additional human resources were needed and, to that end, also in relation to the cost assessment. The explanation stated that most of the data would be obtained from the Ministry from its own records. In this regard, the most information available is from applications for passports where the addresses of residence abroad are available. It may be necessary to obtain an additional title on the exercise of electoral rights, but this is in fact a smaller provision than it would be necessary for all, around 39,000 citizens, to collect all the data. This may leave only about 3 to 5,000 citizens, for whom the Ministry does not have any data, but this will not affect the increase in costs or the need for additional employment. The issue of the accuracy of the data, particularly with regard to the compilation of electoral lists of nationalities, was also raised and attention should also be paid in this regard. In this regard, it was clarified that the compilation of the special electoral lists of members of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities is provided for in Chapter 4 of the Law on the Registration of Election Rights, which consists of these directories of the Special Commission of Nationality and therefore has to lodge a complaint with them or comments on the inaccuracies of the data and also require a review of the electoral directory. The Committee thus endorsed all the proposed articles of the amended law and also proposed them for adoption by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u345	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u346	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Under the applicable law on registering electoral rights, it is possible to register electoral rights on official duty only to those nationals who check out their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. However, those nationals who reside abroad permanently and who have left the Republic of Slovenia before the entry into force of this Act shall be entered on the basis of a request. The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the law is to allow the largest possible number of citizens of our country who do not have permanent residence to exercise electoral rights. The proposal shall set up a full register of the rights of those citizens after the official duty if the competent authority has at its disposal data of the citizen such as name and surname, sex, date of birth, last residence data. This data will be obtained by the Authority from the official records of the diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia from citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also the responsibility of the Authority to establish this record after official duty within 6 months of the application of this Act. The bill does not modify the existing law on registering electoral rights in any way, but merely complements it with the possibility of entering nationals of emigrants under official duty. Although it is a small addition to the existing law, it is very important for the exercise of the electoral rights of our citizens, so we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! You will not believe this law is so good that we have not tabled an amendment from the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and we will not discuss it, but we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u350	Now, however, the opposition is out of position with regard to proposals for position laws. But I'm gonna read something anyway. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the Ministry of the Interior, at the initiative of New Slovenia, has also prepared a proposal for amendments to the law on registering electoral law. The proposed law places all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the same position, whether they have permanent residence in Slovenia or not. Under the current law, Slovenian citizens who had a permanent residence outside Slovenia had to register themselves in a special register of electoral rights. The result of such a law was that of the 54 000 563 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living abroad, only 15 thousand 153 were registered in the register of electoral law. With the proposed amendments to the law, the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will have to establish, within six months of the entry into force of this Act, all those nationals with permanent residence abroad for whom it has data on their permanent residence. Following the provision of the Ministry's representatives, it has data for the majority of citizens abroad. The implementation of this law will enable the exercise of electoral rights to a large number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the law because we are convinced that the adoption of this law allows better integration of Slovenians living in the world with the country of origin.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u352	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on registering electoral rights relates to the register of electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in Slovenia. The permanent register of electoral rights already contains citizens without permanent residence who were in the special electoral registers for the election of the President of the Republic in 1997 [[?]] and for the elections to the National Assembly in 2000. In the register of electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia without permanent residence there are now just over 15,000 voters. The Ministry of the Interior has data on the country of residence for slightly less than 40,000 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but there is no data on their actual residence or address. The Constitution, in the second paragraph of Article 43, provides every citizen who has reached the age of 18 with the right to vote and be loved. It is our country's duty to ensure that this right is exercised also for those citizens who do not have a permanent residence in Slovenia. We support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because it fully establishes a register of the electoral rights of citizens without permanent residence in Slovenia, by official duty. Of course, there is a possibility that individual citizens, from whom data will try to obtain the competent diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, will not provide such data. And our job is to allow them a full registration in the electoral directory. In addition to entering the electoral registers, it is also important to inform all our citizens, not only about individual elections, but in particular about the importance of elections and indirect democracy. Citizens and citizens must be informed of the importance of the exercise of electoral rights, and in particular we must strive for quality work and political culture for the politicians. Only under these conditions will voters be more confident in the policy and aware of the importance of participating in each election. As we say, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u354	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Secretary of State! In our DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a government law supplementing the law on registering electoral rights. The novelty covers only three articles, which were not amended either at the meeting of the working body or at this consideration of the national assembly. The proposed amendments also enable the exercise of electoral rights for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but they do not have permanent residence in the country of Slovenia, and it is also proposed to establish registers of the electoral rights of those persons on official duty. This is about over 54,500 Slovenian citizens living in other countries. Although we do not object to this novel in the DeSUS Group, because it is not contrary to our legal order, nor do we challenge this right, but from a purely practical point of view, and also from the perspective of Slovenian citizens who have a permanent residence and who also actually reside in our municipalities and in our country of Slovenia, we ask whether it is appropriate to elect candidates for certain positions or functions from the point of view of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not live in our municipalities and in our country. In addition, we estimate that only the few citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living outside the national borders of the Republic of Slovenia will actually exercise this right. From the point of view of the DeSUS Group, as I have already mentioned, we do not oppose the proposal, as we estimate that it will contribute to closer contacts with our fellow citizens abroad, so we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u355	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which will be resumed at 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u356	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State with his team, good evening, and, of course, Minister, I apologize! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. As usual, I ask you to check the operation of the voting device; now you know that an orange light must burn on the right side of the card. We continue with the end of the 38th item of the agenda - re-decision on the minimum wage law. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. First of all, I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. He will be the first to present the position of the LDS mag Group. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u357	The State Council, by vetoing the minimum wage law, gave the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to amend the law by determining the way in which the minimum wage is scaled up and, in agreement with the social partners, this minimum wage will be raised in a manner that is appropriate for those who receive minimum wages to share prosperity in Slovenia. We will not support the law in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. We regret that you intend to do so in the ruling coalition, on the week when we adopt important tax laws, with which we share very much money to a small group of people on the one hand, and we have not given some 100 million tolars of additional money to people on a minimum wage, in a different way of coordinating with which the social partners would also agree. We refer to this as a two-faced policy; a policy that limits the growth of the minimum wage and, on the other hand, it divides into large amounts. Therefore, we propose to the ruling coalition that it understands the veto of the state council as an opportunity for a retrial, that it does not vote today and that the minister properly amends the law and that the minimum wage is coordinated differently from what the government wants. If you accept our proposal, then in a few years, those who receive minimum wages would gradually come to 750 euros from the current 490 euros. If you do not accept this, then you will judge those who have the smallest wages to contribute most to the so-called prosperity in Slovenia. But it will not be a blessing for them, it will be a blessing only for some, those whom, in the next law that we are considering today, will be highly favored.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u358	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats will be explained by Mrs Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u359	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Social Democrats' Group will not support the bill's proposal by re-voting the minimum wage law. Throughout the legislative process, we have worked both in the debate and through the amendment to achieve such a form of law as to be acceptable to the social partners, and in particular to those who receive minimum wages. Therefore, our comments were aimed at ensuring that coordination should be tailored to the actual increase in prices of living needs and not forecasted - this is a difference of 745 tolars per month, but this difference is increasing at each of the following, so we think it is a far-reaching intervention in determining the level of minimum wage. However, the second reason for such a final decision in the re-voting is that we will not vote for the law, but the social partners, both employers and employees, have been warned that the law is not harmonised, that they do not support it and that they have asked us not to support the law. We believe that the proof of agreement between employees and employers is such a signal that it dictated a change of decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u360	Thank you very much. I'm predicting now a report in my own name. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one will explain Mr Pike's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u361	Thank you. Of course, I can't support this amendment, because if anything, it's very pessimistic. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] We're talking about the law. [[...]] And that's why [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, because we will support the minimum wage law and this because I think it is okay to involve social partners, although you all say it does not include them, but it is two-stage. [[...]] Because if the agreement fails, it is only then that this growth will be determined and therefore there will not be a drop in minimum wages as it happened this year, so that they have not raised those workers who have the lowest wages by as much as they would have been after the raise that has been set.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u362	Thank you very much. The next one will explain her voice, Mrs Jeraiev.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u363	Thank you for your word. As I have already said today, the social partners - one of their tasks is to reach a social agreement or to agree on a wage policy and within it a minimum wage. If there is no such agreement, everyone can stand in his position and nothing happens, but we can do what the government has proposed, so she has proposed a law whereby the minimum wage can be raised by an agreed percentage or, in this case, by 2 per cent. During the debate, we have found that the beneficiaries have a minimum wage of 14,000 and these people will receive an increased minimum wage or will not receive it if we do not adopt this law. That is why I will re-support the marriage, as I did before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr Pece will explain his next vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u365	Your Honors are here! I must say this: my decision was primarily guided by the idea of a representative of the State Council, who, in my opinion, said the essential element that had been released during the morning's debate. That's why Minister Petty Officer should be on the side of the workers. He's the Minister for Social Affairs. Its existing and current position is on the side of capital and on the side of employers, and that is not right. Minister Drobnič, in pursuit of his objectives, which are finally formed in the draft law, follows the aspirations of the finance minister, who has a different role within the government. The Minister of Finance, on the one hand logically, has to take care of public finances in this form so that the so-called State is as many as possible, in the pronunciations, 'approach'. But Minister Petty Officer is in the role of helping people who are somehow marked with a social minimum. And I believe he's making a big mistake here. With this title, I agree with the State Council's proposal to accede to a new law, a new law that will allow minimum wages to be raised in accordance with expected standards and affected by social partners. So, those who care about the so-called raise of social level. Of course, from this title I am on the side of the veto of the state council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u366	Thank you very much. I ask you very much not to mention the names of the representatives of the government or Members in the explanations, because they no longer have a replica at this stage. I give my word to Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u367	Thank you for your word. If we can't make a deal, we have consequences here today. And the law was urgently needed, as they could be witnesses, I don't know when, reaching consensus was not possible, and the result was that Mr Minister decided to take the side of the workers and bring the law into Parliament. This law allows workers to receive a coordinated minimum wage of 2%, i.e. an absolute amount of about 2,500 tolars. And we can't pay them that now because you want to delay this process in any way. I wonder what kind of duplicity this is. At the previous session, when we adopted this law, there were 70 and 69 of them in favor. I don't know what the big deal is today. When we had an argument about this once before, it was quite all right, and today, when we talk about it again, we hear some reservations. It's a duplicity! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will explain his voice. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u369	Thank you very much. The main reason why the state council voted veto was that the law abolished social dialogue. It's not like that. Article 2 makes it very clear that the Minister shall consult the social partners before setting the minimum wage. It should be noted that the minimum wage in Slovenia is tied, according to data for June and July, to about 18,000 workers and workers, and other financial transfers are linked to guaranteed salaries. Therefore, the adoption of this law is necessary. And the veto of the State Council in the New Slovenia Group cannot be interpreted in any other way than deliberately stalling to the detriment of the socially weak. This veto has caused damage to the socially weak who receive a minimum wage and will be deprived of it to maintain the real value of their earnings. As we know, there are, in particular, workers and workers in very intensive industries who are hard to live on from day to day. And if the minimum wage growth is not guaranteed by law, as proposed, they have no guarantee that this minimum increase will ever be possible. Once again, in our Group of Members, we will re-support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u370	Thank you very much. There is no collective explanation of vote under the Rules of Procedure, so please calm down and give those who speak a chance. Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u371	Thank you. I will be against the law myself, and I will support the decision of the State Council, which, by the way, cited one of the main reasons why the law does not maintain the practice so far, in order to determine the annual amount of the minimum wage in negotiations with the social partners. That was the reason, and we have warned ourselves about it, and I have warned about it once, and I am reminding you of that today. At the same time, let me say that the path to the time that has been repeatedly stressed today, when it will no longer be necessary to have a minimum wage law, because we will all have the maximum wage, this path is still far away, because the way to the top of Triglav and to the rise to Triglav, to travel to the Adriatic islands and to the "Megallaxa" is far enough and is suppressed in 2023. By 2023, however, it is necessary to define a way of harmonising the minimum wage as it has been in the past and within which the social partners have played a role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u373	Thank you for your word. I will vote again as I have already voted, in support of the law, and this is what several facts point to. That is, the law has already been adopted by 69 votes to 70, which means that most of those who have had long discussions today have been looking for a "hair in the egg" to show a certain duality, as mentioned by colleague Veršnik. It's about 14,000 people who are socially at risk, whose minimum wage means this basic source of survival, and here's the first moment that's to be imagined. I hope that the remaining reform measures will significantly reduce industrial development and economic progress. Above all, at this time, in the very contents of the Council of State, I did not find any elements to convince me that I would have made a different decision. Veto may also be the result of a lack of dialogue or negotiations between social partners of persevering each on their shores, which does not surprise me, because if these negotiators are dealing with everything else, one of them is running for mayor of Škofja Loka in the second round and probably has no time to engage in social dialogue - but I will support the law. Above all, I see a strong desire that the number of 14,000 employees on the minimum wage should be substantially reduced, so I will support the law once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u374	Once again, I ask for peace in the hall. I'm reopening my application for an individual explanation. Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u375	Thank you for your word. I'll back the law myself. Let me say that I come from an area where there are many workers and workers on minimum wage. I'd like to tell you that. 500, 600 workers and workers of the glassworks Rogaška Slatina, who receive minimum wages, do not think much about whether three or four thousand tolars will receive more. They're thinking about whether tomorrow they're going to have a job and they're going to figure out how one crystal vase, where the input and the material are going to be 30 or 50 thousand dollars, how to sell this crystal vase with at least 3% of the profits. And all this debate today, where there has been a lot of criticism at the expense of how we cannot or cannot agree on a minimum wage for the social partners, from this other point of view, as I have just stated, I think it is a little excessive. And I will be very happy if anything in this other area will happen in the future, where a lot of things in the past have been "approached", as it were, as it were, done. And I hope that and that these workers, these workers, who are on minimum wage today, will have little more in the future, but much more in personal expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u376	Thank you. Mr. Juban will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u377	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today, when we listen to explanations, I feel like we're talking about something that's not true. There is no mention of the absolute amount of minimum wage in deciding again on this law, nor of the consensus that both social partners must give. And it is not true that we are being delayed, but it is the desire of the two social partners and the Council of State to decide again or not to support the law. All the time, the dilemma surrounding the amendment, which says nicely, is the amount of the minimum wage on the basis of that assessment, is determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work on the basis of the previous opinion - and no more. And no one demands an agreement or blockade that could happen when the minister sets a minimum wage. And that's all this is about. That's why I won't support the law, because there's plenty and enough reasons not to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u378	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u379	Your Honor! I will be very happy to support the marriage again. In particular, I would like to point out once again that there are around 14,000 employees on the minimum wage, or I think even more. And deliberately delaying the adoption of this law would further make it difficult for the recipients of the minimum wage or other insurance benefits in the event of unemployment and social security waiting for the minimum wage to be increased and on this basis the harmonisation of social transfers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as myself personally, we are aware that the recipients of the minimum wage are that group of employees, which each tolar means very much, so it is imperative that the minimum wage law enters into force as soon as possible. That is why I will be very happy to support the marriage once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u380	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. Thank you very much. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the second discusses the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on prevention of work and employment in black. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, namely Article 5 and the first amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. The vote is under way. Thank you very much. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. Thank you very much. I note that 71 Members and Members present voted 24 to 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. Thank you very much. I note that there are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 3 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 4 of the new Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 6 of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded the decision on the amendments and I am thus concluding a second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, after the holidays of 2 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will guide after the amendments of 26 October of this year. First, we have an amendment to the third member of the Social Democrats Group. I therefore open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please. Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mohet. He's quitting. Mr. Potch, on behalf of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Since we really had a thorough discussion about this law, at least most of us, as far as we were in the hall, would not want to delay. However, I say that we will support this and the two amendments that we tabled in the parliamentary group and vote against the law if these amendments are not adopted. It is the fact that the government, without the need for an excuse to enforce a harmonised way and a uniform way of coordinating transfers, reduces the rights enjoyed by the holders of these transfers from individual funds or from the state budget. This will increase social disparities in the country, and the state or government, on its behalf, is doing so at the expense of the commitments it wants to reduce in the state budget, as tax legislation has reduced its revenue. We find this direction unacceptable and will therefore support this amendment to ensure a uniform system of coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Friend will speak on behalf of the SNS Group instead of Mr Zagorec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u383	Thank you very much, Mr President! Of course, this amendment makes sense, especially because it essentially corrects the wrong that is enshrined in the law. That is, since after one year or two years of recalculating a right that is essentially derived from a basket of living expenses, it really is not possible. Here the government has made a very big mistake, especially to families that do not have a basic survival, and if you read well Article 3, it speaks of being aligned once a year with rising prices of living needs in the period January - December for the previous year, i.e. back. The amendment tells us that this can be harmonized with the pension law. That's good. I would add, however, that the State actually wants to save money in this way, namely in the first year for a billion 800, next year for a four and third year for six billion 900, which is unheard of to put such restrictive measures into effect at the expense of the lowest layer. You won't get paid for that. What we've heard today is that it's a prelude, if not just a lie by the minister, that it's actually a good thing. That's not good. This is bad for all those who must survive with guaranteed personal income, with minimal personal income. And we know that the minimum personal income is 122,000 gross and the guaranteed 55,000 gross. And it's not easy to survive with that amount, believe me. Of course, I believe that you do not see the Minister and all the Members of the government as being hungry, and you are proposing such stupid marriage proposals. I don't mean to be insulting, but the fact is, this is unacceptable to me. Because some in Slovenia also have to survive with this money. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u384	Mr. Friend, I'm sorry, I find you were insulting. The words "lie" and "stupid" and so on do not belong to this Parliament. Please take this into account in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u385	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u386	Please, peace in the hall! I'm opening an application for individual explanations of vote. Please sign up if anyone is interested. Mag. Genius, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u387	Thank you. When we talked to the Minister about the coordination of social transfers a year after we did not agree to this law last year, there was a talk on the coordination of those transfers that did not come from paid rights. And then I said that we could agree on that, and we said that we would support such a proposal. Since it is the solution to harmonise the sick in this way, we cannot support the breach of this agreement, which we want to stick to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u388	Thank you very much. In her own name, she will explain the voice of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u389	Thank you very much. I'll join my colleague Žnidaršič, and I'll ask what's different than a lie, or if you want, obviously a plan. Finally, the numbers also say that marriage is not good for all those on the verge of survival. And the amendment allows for an amendment, an amendment to the law, which the minister voluntarily invented over the social partners. The law, you don't want to, it's not consistent, and the social partners point out that. Let me remind you that within the framework of social transfers, which will be coordinated after a new one, these include: child allowance, child care allowance, child support, parental allowance, foster care, cash social assistance, unemployment allowance and more. In short, those social transfers that actually enable people on the social edge to survive the minimum that you believe does not allow a person to live a life of worth or dignity. I will support the amendment, and once again, I strongly oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u390	Thank you very much. My colleague, it is not right that, despite my warning, you use "powerful" terms again. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u391	Thank you for your word. I will do my best, even though I don't know how this can be used in such a law without harsh terms. With regard to the objectives of the law, the government stated that the basic aim of the law is to ensure the public financial objectives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely, the long-term sustainability of public finances, according to which it would be domestically called where I come from, "sparing"; "sparing" on social transfers, which are more than 30, and the recipients in this country are 60,000. Someone was talking about duality in the previous marriage, about 14,000 people who need to be provided, and I'm going to say it again in my own way, two grand in quasi-aid because they're poor and have the lowest wages. And now you will see the duality - 60,000 people, respected gentlemen of the government coalition, those who are talking now, instead of listening, will be deprived of their social assistance! There's this duplicity! And you know where the duplicity is? When someone says in the morning that the comments of the State Council are justified, then he stays in the explanatory box, because something "remembered" him, that he said wrong that it was not "lapsus lingue", he pressed for this law. That's a double act, if you like to talk about her like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Let me say that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 6(1). If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 6, point 1, is irrelevant. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 26 to 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I open article 3.a, the amendment's proposals are the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment to Article 6, point 2, is therefore irrelevant. We've closed the debate on the amendments. The amendments in the second reading were not adopted, so we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third amendment, so we are moving on to a decision on the whole law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th paragraph of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, which is in the shorter process. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I turn to agenda item 18, and I inform you that in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the draft law on amendments to the law on the register of voting rights will be held on Thursday, 2 November of this year, as part of the vote. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda - the third reading of the proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro. On Tuesday, 24 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As no amendments have been tabled in the supplementary proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Government has warned that, due to the initial working body of the amendments adopted, the law is inconsistent. The Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 9 of the bill was sent to you on the bench. Would you like to speak to a government representative about the harmonisation amendment? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The Government proposes to amend the second paragraph of Article 9 by saying: "The amounts referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be rounded up in accordance with the adopted Article of Regulation 1003/97." With the amendment adopted by the home labour body under the second draft law on 9th Article, the proposed legal text of the article has led to a lack of consistency and the Government is proposing this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Perhaps the Member and Members would like a word with regard to the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on non-materialised securities. On Tuesday, 24 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that, as a result of the labour force of the amendments adopted, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 68 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] Which means that the law has been passed, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the draft law on income. On Tuesday 24 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of the Act. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third reading of the law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I find that two amendments were tabled in the third reading. We'll deal with them separately. First, we have the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 154. I am opening a statement of explanation to the vote on behalf - I apologize, the debate is, so I am opening an application for a debate, not for an explanation, but for a debate. Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u395	Thank you so much and only mine. The chapter on income related to agricultural and forestry activities also sets out when income is not paid. And I think that these solutions are in the order we see in the neighbourhood aid, environmental payments, investment, long-term investment, damage, compensation, limit, lower limit, and then also that stimulation for bookkeeping, okay. However, if we add all of this together, it does not weigh subsidies away per unit of surface area. As we continue in the Tax base chapter, we say what the tax base is in agriculture, and of course then in the transitional provisions, which is interesting; we have already said in the tax base, for example, about vineyards that the factor of the cadastral income is 2 while in the transitional provisions we went to reopen the cadastral income, where "subsidies per hectare of the area of agricultural and forest areas" is added. This is, in fact, the biggest problem of taxation in agriculture, which was a lot of talk before, after, the last State elections, even in local elections, but this solution is obviously subsequently introduced in some unusual way in 154th Article, 'transitional period for determining the cadastral income and flat tax base for the hive', and we have assessed that this solution is not good here and that it is criminal. Indeed, this is not some actual income, but a loss of income due to the common European market when the sector reaches a much lower price than price production and then replaces this loss of income which should not be taxed with these subsidies per hectare or direct payments. That is why we have tabled this amendment to the 154th article in the text you have before you, and we expect you to support this amendment and together with us all those who have promised that this will not be taxed, and we also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u396	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate by 154. - I'm sorry, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u397	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! In the second reading, decisions were taken to tax agriculture in a different way by including subsidies in the cadastral income. This, of course, compares those taxable persons who will be taxed on the basis of the cadastral income with those who will be taxed on the basis of the definition of the tax base as the difference between income and expenditure. This also allows for a law on income. From this point of view, the elimination of subsidies, in particular income subsidies, would, of course, mean those subsidies which are not already exempt under Article 26 itself, in fact constitute a completely different taxation of taxable persons in the same Article, i.e. taxable persons engaged in agricultural and economic activities, and this different situation would constitute, in fact, unacceptable or favouritism of certain taxable persons for the same activity. As a result, this amendment is unacceptable and the government is actually opposed to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u398	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. Mr. Juban, one more time. If we're just as formal as we need to be, sign up. That's right, the side effects of technology. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u399	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Shircel, that's exactly what you said. If we were to run the bookkeeping, the result would be very similar in the end, as if we were to take into account this amendment that I'm talking about. Some production price that happens in some production, say 100. Because of the market situation, we went to the market at lower prices for social reasons in the European Union and the competition is such as that and all countries have direct payments or subsidies per hectare. And we only reach one part of the production price. The difference, which is missing from a production price, is replaced by the State with direct payments. And if we were to run the bookkeeping, and on the income side, we would introduce the price on the market plus the subsidy per hectare, we would end up having the same result as if we applied this amendment, which would not tax the subsidies per hectare. If we create by bookkeeping, I don't know, 10% of the net income, it's going to show up here the same way as if we're following our amendment. Now we're taxing the whole subsidy, say, 30% of the price, is the difference, or you're taxing 30% or 10% of the price difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u400	Thank you. As I see my hands raised, I am reopening my application for a debate on Article 154 and the amendment. Please. First Mr. Sok, then Mr. Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u401	Thank you for your word. I must say, I personally like this amendment very much. I would also like to support it, of course, but I think that this whole debate around ECO 0 payments, says around subsidies in agriculture, ended already in 2004, when we actually corrected the law and the subsidies we classified as income payments in the field of agriculture. And this is what all Slovenian farmers agree with right now. They have taken this decision as such, and you are now proposing in the third reading that we change it, with all the changes that have already been introduced into this law and that are going in a positive direction. Now is not the time to repeat everything again, but in the debate, in the general debate here, then in the second reading, we said what all this income law in the field of agriculture is improving. In fact, you now want another relief with this proposal. However, the whole agricultural tax will be given its true picture as soon as we adopt the new Cadastrian Income Act. Then this whole will be rounded up and I hope for myself and in New Slovenia we expect this law to be passed this year and will also enter into force with the start of next year. Thank you very much. So now, in the third reading of this amendment, we cannot support all the changes that we have already introduced in all of these discussions for agriculture, even if you want to, the exemption from investment subsidies, which was not in previous legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u403	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear once again that this is actually a matter of taxation of subsidies in this law, i.e. subsidies once, when those who keep records are taxed between their revenues and are actually here. Secondly, when these subsidies which are not exempt in accordance with Article 26 are included in the cadastral income and thus also constitute the income of the taxable person. With this in mind, the Income Act is sufficient in the sense that subsidies are those that are not excluded, here we are talking about exclusion of investment and environmental taxes, that others are taxed because they actually represent part of the price, so we think this proposed solution, which is now in law, is okay and once again: we do not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u404	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Please below, if there is actually a technical failure to raise your arms or to protest loudly that the voting device or device does not work. The following article I am putting to the debate and the amendment to Article 159, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. I'm opening a debate. I can see she's not here. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the government had warned that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a law was inconsistent, it had drafted a harmonisation amendment to Articles 16 and 120, which you received on the bench. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u405	Thank you very much. The Government proposes two harmonisation amendments to Article 16, in which the word "fourth" is replaced by the word "fifth", in the seventh paragraph, because the second reading adopted an amendment under which a new fourth paragraph was inserted in Article 97. The fourth paragraph thus became a new fifth paragraph and, in order to comply, it is necessary to amend the reference in Article 26, paragraph 7. At the same time, the Government also proposes that the text of Article 112, paragraph 1, of the second paragraph of Article 112 should be replaced by the text of Article 112, paragraph 1, and Article 112, paragraph 2, should be replaced precisely because reference to the provision of this Article in Article 120 has been violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u406	Thank you very much. Does any of the Members or Members wish to discuss the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 120. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We will also decide on the bill as a whole. I shall open a statement of reasons for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The first will explain the vote on behalf of the SDS, Mr Petek. [[He's quitting.]] The second will explain the vote on behalf of the LDS mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u407	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u408	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! We will not support the law on income in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. Two years after Mr Janez Janša took over, the first tax law came before us and for the first time before we decided on the so-called Janša tax reform. If the tax reforms of past years, particularly the Maramore tax reform, as well as the reforms initiated by Mr Kranjec, have been continued by Mr Gaspari and Mr Rop, it is clear that they have created conditions for Slovenia to take over the euro over a period of more than 60 days, then the characteristic of Janša's tax reform is mainly a major asset redistribution and the Income Act. There is no reason for the income law to burden those who least need it. If the government wanted to reduce progress if it wanted to relieve the economy, then it could have done so for the same money by reducing the tax on paid wages. I'd get a lot better effects. I would not have intervened in changing net wages and would not have ruined my own income policy, which will be one of the major economic problems in Slovenia after taking over the euro. Secondly, if, of course, instead of what you are about to accept, you were to abolish the tax on paid wages, you would reduce the cost of the economy, and this law would not reduce the cost of the economy by one tolar. That is why this is a bad law, so it is a law that redistributes Janša's tax law, but not a burden on the economy. It relieves the least necessary to give them a large tax gift and when to the poorest [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] gives three euros and takes 10 times as much at the same time. [[...]] That is why we oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u410	Thank you. The vote on behalf of the Social Democrats will be explained by Mr Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u411	Thank you very much. We have been very active in the process of adopting the Income Act since the first day and have put forward many proposals to improve its content. Formally, none of our proposals have been adopted, although it is right to say that, according to the content of the three proposals, our proposals have been submitted in the same text as or with the same content as the members of the coalition, but, as usual, the coalition adopts them and the others reject them, even though they are of the same content. This is a special relief after 65, it is an increase in interest relief and it is a relief for those affected physically and mentally after 18 years in 2005 and 2006. However, the government and the majority of the government have explicitly rejected our amendments, which have sought to align the rights of employees in the offices of our companies abroad with those of diplomats. She wanted to equalize the tax burden regardless of the source of income, salary or pension, she wanted equal terms of donations and exemptions for everyone in this law, in the Law on corporate income tax and in the law on inheritance tax and gifts. She wanted to be exempt from investing in apartments, and in particular wanted to increase the tax rate from 41% to 45% in the best paid. Since none of this has been accepted, we estimate that the effect of tax reform has mainly been that, with this tax reform on income, the government and the government coalition have heavily charged the budget for at least 30 billion, especially for the benefit of a few thousand or ten thousand of the best paid in our country. Otherwise, tax conditions and tax rights have not been substantially changed for other groups of citizens, and there is something else that has been given to everyone except young people to resolve housing issues, which is particularly unacceptable in this tax reform. Finally, the privileged denationalisation beneficiaries and the Church remained special. We're not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u412	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, there will be a vote [[...]] [[He won't.]] Mr Testen will explain his vote on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u413	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will support the Income Act. But we will support him for the following reasons. I think that the law is significantly better because it introduces three income classes and even the scales themselves are substantially changed in favour of the taxpayers. It is very important for us that the law brings or preserves, which has already been adopted before, the cedularity in the taxation of capital revenues, which is also very good and important for the debtors, if we know that some have paid before, is that those who have paid the least have paid between 16% and even 50% on capital revenues, given that capital revenues have been included in the income. Untaxed interest is also maintained up to EUR 1,000, which I think is also very important. The overall relief increases from 591 thousand to 900 to 670 992 tolars, but it is also true that some special reliefs are being abolished, but are largely cancelled due to simplification of the procedure, which I think is also important and is welcome for taxpayers. We are also very pleased with the reliefs for the large family, we think it is important that these reliefs in the law are adopted, and I think that, irrespective of the amendment previously proposed, it is also a significant improvement in the agricultural field, because even a lot of changes have been made in the agricultural field. For the end, I would mention that, I'll say, 0.5% of the income for the general benefit. This is also important for us, here we will decide for ourselves; for the first time, the government has given this opportunity to the national assembly to adopt such a form. As individuals, we will decide who we are going to give this to, so we support the law because we think it is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u414	Thank you very much. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 66 are present, with 46 votes against 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] The law is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. On Tuesday, 24 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft law and, as amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended law in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be suspended at that meeting. That's why we're moving to third reading. I note that one amendment, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to Article 99, has been tabled. I'm opening a possible debate on this amendment. I find that there is no interest, so I conclude the debate. We're voting on the amendment. Thank you very much. I note that there are 63 Members present and there are 15 votes in favour, 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. And on the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 160 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the law in its entirety, and I invite possible explanations to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please sign up. Thank you very much. I invite the first to the word of Mr Testen on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u415	Thank you for your word. We'll support this law, too. Especially because this is the law - we discussed a lot yesterday about effective taxation of the economy. The effective taxation of the economy under this law, which we are now adopting, will be reduced in the light of the effective taxation of the economy that we have had so far. This efficient taxation of the economy so far stems from the law adopted in May 2004. In the current law, this effective taxation is lower from 25 in 2007 to 23% and later, by 2010, to 20. It is also true that some other effects that define effective taxation of the economy are also a variety of reliefs, but I think that effective taxation of the economy will for the first time begin to decline. The second thing that matters before was a talk about the law on paid wages. I think that this law is also important from the point of view of economic stress, and also after this law, the burden of the economy will be reduced by 20% this year and then by 2% in the next two years. As far as the one-off income, which has been a lot of talk about how much of a tax on profits or on the income of legal persons, is concerned, I would say that this tax, which will be of what amount, is still very unpredictable because the taxpayers have different possibilities of definition, and I think that only after the end of 2006 will we be able to talk about the amount of that tax, but it certainly will not be so great that it can influence the way some would like to present it. We will support the law because we think it is very burdensome for the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u416	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Mr Potsch will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u417	Thank you very much. In total, we expected tax reforms to lead to a substantial economic burden. This was the government's promise of economic and social reforms. This is also a serious condition for achieving greater efficiency of the economy and thus the possibility of providing new jobs, better quality and better welfare for the country. We estimate that this objective will not be achieved through this tax reform. The underlying reason for this is that the tax rate is declining very gradually and comes to 20% only as of 2010. From the second year forward, however, it will gradually be one step lower and, at the same time, many reliefs are being abolished, which in the current corporate tax system have allowed an effective tax rate to be much lower than nominally set. This is mainly a matter of facilitating new investments in investments, first employment and scholarships. All these proposals I am talking about have been given by our Group of Members, none of them have been adopted, and we cannot support this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will explain his vote on behalf of the LDS Club. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u419	The Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is another law, which will also not reduce effective taxation of the economy. Even though the tax rate is gradually decreasing, in view of the abolition of the type of relief, the definitive abolition of the type of relief, in particular of equipment relief, employment facilitation, the facilitation of the employment of doctors of science, the facilitation of the employment of hard-to-work workers, the economy is only more taxed in the case of corporate income tax. This is best seen when this law changes the depreciation rates and broadens the tax base. We have tried to table a number of amendments in the debate in recent weeks, which would slightly correct the bad proposal. However, the tax reform of Mr Janez Janša is based on the fact that once a tax gift is given to a small group after the law has been passed, it is necessary to take it somewhere. And it's being taken completely by the economy. That is why even after the economy adopted today in 2007, 2008, and I hope that the last two years of this government's mandate, once more taxed, will be 100% more taxed than in the previous government's mandate. The figures are unfortunately sad and prove that this year the tax will be 224 billion compared to 124 billion in 2004 and still 230 billion in 2008 compared to 124 billion in 2004. Well, one more time. Mr Janez Janša took up his mandate with great promises of reforms, of a burden on the economy. With the income tax, we have seen that even for a tolar, the burden of the economy is not reduced, and in the corporate income tax, we see that Mr Janez Janša of this economy covers more than was covered in the past to finance the bad government projects he runs. I believe you will support this law because it requires [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the political culture of the ruling coalition. [[...]] However, I predict that this will have a negative impact on the economic race, and I am not predicting this alone, according to the analysts themselves of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u420	Thank you. And Mr. Battelli will be the last. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's okay, thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the last item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the 6th item on the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a tax procedure law. On Tuesday 24 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I also inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be harmonised, so we can decide on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the last item of today's agenda, to the continuation of the 11th item - the third part of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015. In this case, too, on Tuesday 24 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to submit an amendment to the third reading of the amendments. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I shall open a statement of reasons for the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please. Thank you very much. This time the fingers were really too fast. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u421	Thank you for your word. Dear fellows! Social Democrats believe that our defence system, the security system and all investments in it, must meet the real challenges of time and space or the actual sources of national security threats and those that should influence them. This imperative, however, has not been reflected in this law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes for the period 2008-2015, according to our assessment. The Minister did not convince us that such a spending of defence money was necessary, including the thesis on 2% of GDP by 2008, because in order for this to be NATO's promise, it fell into the water when the government itself realized that it would not work because of other needs. And, as the Minister says, we will fulfill all the obligations we have undertaken within NATO. None of our very well-intentioned comments in the first reading were taken into account, in particular the proposal that the government report once a year to the National Assembly on the implementation of the law, including through individual purchase programmes, in order to make consumption more transparent. And last but not least, the anticipated purchases go in a completely different direction from what time dictates to us. It is true that we are obliged to participate in international peace missions, and it would be fitting to do so again, without offense, and if we are to do so again, greater selectivity in choosing these paths. It is true that we must ensure the maximum safety of our people on these routes of operations. It is true that we must be organisationally and operationally fully compatible with our partners. But it is also true that we do not need as many as 135 expensive armoured personnel and two expensive tactical transport aircraft. There are so many such capacities within existing systems that all needs will be met by better and better organisation of logistics within the structures and in cooperation between our country and our partners. In short, the law, which foresees spending 710 million euros over the next eight years, will not be supported by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u422	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for individual explanations. Please. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u423	In my name, of course, I will not support the marriage. Reasons [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u424	Please forgive the man for saying it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u425	There's a lot of reason for that. The main reason is that, of course, I find it unacceptable beyond the budgetary two-year framework to accept a commitment, a legal commitment, that we will of course do something that is not sustainable in the case of the Janša government for two months. Two months ago, we received a bill explaining in its explanation how much money is allocated in the 2007 and 2008 budgets, but there is no money in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. I think it would be much more meaningful to substantively discuss each year what is more of a priority for the National Assembly: more money for the military or more money for minimum wages, social transfers or more money for research and development. It is unacceptable that, by the provision of the law that you will receive today, only the military is excluded from the restriction imposed by the general public financial legislation to ensure that the national military programme, this basic development programme, is not annually limited by every law on the implementation of the budget. This is an unacceptable provision. You are making this provision today. That is why I am opposed to the amendment of this law, and I consider it to be mere silence. It is good that when we adopt a law on public procurement when we talk about the use of public money in the military, that this subject is subject to the same restrictions as financing health or social transfers, I therefore oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u426	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u427	I've got a problem, please, if someone can fix this thing for me by tomorrow, the microphone. It will not be a day, respected colleagues and colleagues, to open a newspaper or television to prevent news of what needs to be bought in the Slovenian Army. Whether it's the weapon we put in Afghanistan for free or whether it's armored or planes. And it seems to me that now that we have come to NATO and should be more inadequately safe, the impressions offered by the media give rise to the view that we are increasingly at risk. This marriage that we have before us - I will not oppose it. Certain security also ensures the country, but it would not be more fortunate if the government of Mr Janez Janša brought to the National Assembly a law that would not speak of a weapon that would talk about science, which would talk about a technology that would talk about education, about a so-called school tolar. It is not, until now, that defence and school tolar have always walked hand in hand, but when we asked the Minister responsible for higher education whether the government was even thinking about it, he said no and that such a tolar is still more likely - so that it is not necessary, but he promised the Committee that within a few months he would tell the Committee whether this area, which I mentioned earlier and which is a priority for our country, is given the same attention or the same generosity as it needs in the defence area. I will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u428	Thank you very much. And the last one, Mr. Anderlich. Please. [[...]] [[Technical disturbances.]] I ask the technical staff to take action later and correct Mr Mojet's microphone. [[...]] Now he has the word, Mr. Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u429	After the general discussion in the first reading, I did not object or voted in favour of the law, counting that some comments could be taken into account in the second reading. To this end, two amendments have also been drafted, which have spoken of the need to restrict the government in that it can at any time exceed 2% of the gross domestic product for defence purposes, as set out in the second paragraph of Article 6, irrespective of the fact that the national assembly has adopted a resolution where 2% is expected to approach, and I have supported this in the first reading and second reading. The government is obviously arrogant here, as is the case with the Minister, nor with the Secretary of State, to wait here for 710 million euros over the next seven years. In order to allow, in Article 7, the National Assembly to exercise control as in all democratic parliaments, where any such procurement such as, say, it is now envisaged in this programme that parliaments discuss whether things are necessary or not and that they exercise control. Trust, ladies and gentlemen, is good, it is right, but control is better, and around the world, in developed parliaments, in democratic parliaments do so. And how to trust the minister and the ministry, Mr Bogataj and others who can't buy even six million tolars, buy past the invitation and the outdated technology before the eyes of the Slovenian public, how to trust them with EUR 710 million in the coming years at least EUR 100 million a year, so that they don't even do certain stupid things. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] On the other hand, the problems in the Slovenian Army seem to be enormous and we should probably discuss the status, the situation of the Slovenian soldier, the officer and so on and first ensure good conditions [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u430	I think we have another round of explanations. I'm opening the application. First of all, I invite you to the word of Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u431	Thank you for your word. I'll back it up. But it is true that I agree with those who say there are problems in the Slovenian Army. Surely these problems would have been smaller or perhaps not would have been if in the past they had not been buying old ammunition that had been overpainted if they had not been buying weapons that were so unusable and dangerous to their own soldiers. And even then, I have to say, control was so virtually disabled, because those who warned were just overvoted. That's the way it is. I hope that now such an old weapon is no longer being bought, even the old ammunition is no longer being bought, and that this minister and, of course, the employees of the Ministry will have more luck and more hearing that the calls will be made in the same way as it is expected to be in front of the public mirror. However, the arguments must then remain. And so far, as far as I can tell, this has been the case. And it appears that those weapons are bought that Slovenia will be able to count on umbrellas, a security umbrella within NATO, which allows us to have a small but professional army and will also be professionally equipped with new equipment, not with old equipment, as it used to be. I trust that this will be the case, so of course I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u432	Thank you very much. And Mr. Stebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry of Defence! I'll support the law. I think it is very wise and perfectly normal that it is planned in the long term and that the National Assembly also has the possibility to decide on it and that it will then have a review of this long-term planning. The two-year budgets, which some consider only possible and are allowed to discuss in this National Assembly, in addition to the plans for development programmes, are too short a time to have a proper review. Moreover, the Slovenian Army has virtually 100% defence character and, if I am even more specific, has the character of peace operations, which are also the subject of debate and decision-making in the National Assembly. Each supply of arms for peace operations is subject to a detailed public debate and a media, such and different assessment. I think we should start looking at the Slovenian Army and its defence doctrine in a positive sense. The core development programmes, on the other hand, allow, through public procurement and public calls, certain basic development and research tasks to be financed. And we indirectly meet the obligations of the North Atlantic Treaty and in this way also help domestic development and economic organisations to effectively perform their products on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-26-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u434	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 8. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and wish you a beautiful and relaxed autumn evening. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
