ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests! Please take your seats and calm down! I begin the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: France [[Ferry]] Horvath, mag. Vasja Klavora, Anton Kokalj, Martin Mikolič, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miran Potrč, Maria Possonec, Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Mr. Davorin Terčon. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Drobnič and other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 28 November 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension or withdrawal from the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 6. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the agenda of the 24th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the President of the government of Mr. Janez Janez for the resolution of the Mags. Janez Squirrel, Minister for Work, Society and Social Affairs. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly on 24 November 2006 that the Mag. Resolve Janez Drobnič as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear High Council! When I took an oath in this Chamber as Prime Minister of the Government, I didn't want a situation to happen at any time when I had to propose to replace someone on my own team. It is true that this has already happened to relatively young people in the history of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, it is true that this is also happening in other arrangements, which are slightly different, where the National Assembly or Parliament does not normally decide individually on each minister. On the basis of the arrangements we have in Slovenia under the Constitution and the Government Act, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government is composed in a manner that requires the approval of the President of the Government, first elected by the National Assembly, and of coalition partners, which form a coalition. Nor can the President of the Government propose someone for whom there is no support in the coalition, nor can he choose him because the majority of the House of State is voting on this. And, of course, no coalition partner can propose directly to the Government, because this proposal must be formally submitted by the President of the Government in accordance with the Constitution. This creates in our legal order a specific situation of double consensus that guarantees the legitimacy of each ministerial function in the Government. The practice so far shows that such a regime has often led to conflicts that have plagued the functioning of the executive branch for at least a short time. Some of the individual cases were very specific, some came just before the end of the mandate and so on. It also happened that the President of the Government did not receive support in the National Assembly for such proposals. In short, we have already had all possible situations in our young history of parliamentary democracy. This situation is slightly different. We are in the middle of a mandate, Slovenia is doing well, we are in the second phase of implementing economic and social reforms, Slovenia is preparing for the Presidency of the European Union, in short, it is time to think soberly about how to improve the functioning of the executive branch. Well, and in the specific case of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there has been a long time of uncoordinated activity, inadequate management of the department, internal conflicts in the department, unnecessary conflicts in the conduct of social dialogue and also interference in the competences of other departments. The minister and I have had a number of conversations. He was warned in writing as early as February of this year that he must change his modus operandi, improve efficiency, reduce the degree of conflict. Unfortunately, the situation has not changed significantly. When it came to the assessment that this simple human resources solution would not be possible to continue the mandate, I suggested that he give up on his own. At that point, this requires a double consensus that each function in the Government needs to be based on its legitimacy, disintegrated. I expected this to be respected both by him and by the coalition partner she proposed to the government. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Then I was forced to comply with the Constitution and the Government Act and propose its replacement. Legally speaking, the situation is perfectly correct. The Minister shall not be obliged to derogate on the basis of the formal rules in force. It may require a debate to be held in the National Assembly. Mr. Petty Officer has chosen this option. I don't think she's good. I am placed in the same position as any of the coalition partners, if any of the ministers were to replace the party or do something like this, because any coalition partner would put it in an impossible position, they would demand its replacement. I can propose an exchange on my own, only I, formally, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I wouldn't be willing to do that. In fact, the coalition partner would be put in an impossible position by the dissolution of this two-party agreement. In such a situation today, I am, and I am sorry that this has happened in a situation which, at least in my opinion, is perfectly clear, transparent. Such action at the head of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as we have been monitoring in the last year, will not be possible to complete some important reform measures that need to be taken in the shortest possible time and because there is a delay, nor will it be possible to conduct coordinated policies that are within the power of the Government and individual officials, for with some moves the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has seriously intervened in the competences of other departments when he proposed measures that are inconsistent with the resources whose fundamental competence these measures are. In this way, I cannot ensure the uniform functioning of the Government and the uniform implementation of policies. This is my constitutional responsibility, and given that both the Minister and the proponents did not respect the principle of legitimacy resulting from our constitutional regime and the double consent, I was forced to propose his replacement. In doing so, I must say that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has done many useful things in the first half of the mandate. I'd hardly say the minister himself didn't bother. In areas where policies have been coordinated, we have achieved significant breakthroughs. This is undisputedly acknowledged by me and other colleagues in the Government, but those things that went wrong are being considered and the situation is quite clear about the balance sheet and I was therefore obliged to make my decision. Let me also say that the decision was not easy, that it was not taken overnight, that no one was put before a naked fact and ultimatum. Attempts to resolve the matter in a different way have taken place formally since the beginning of February this year, amounted to nine months, and given that the situation has not been rectified, it has been a time for such a move. I'd act irresponsibly if I acted differently. I propose that you support my decision and that we do everything in our power to complete this city as quickly as possible with a minister or minister who will be able to effectively manage a resource capable of coordinating those measures that do not concern only the department that is run by an individual and to make up with the accelerated work also for the delay that has occurred in the important part of the implementation of the reform measures due to the stagnation in the negotiations and the proposal of some key measures in the field of the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs. So briefly in this additional explanation. If there are any specific questions, of course, I am ready to answer them later; time is enough. But I still expect the Minister to act responsibly and offer his own resignation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u4	Dear President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, honourable Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! When I received a call on Tuesday morning for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, in which it was likely by mistake - because a letter with the signature of the President of the Government, proposing my discharge, did not contain any annex - there was some writing that had neither the form nor the content and the author of which was unknown, but spoke of some clues that had recently appeared in public about my work, management and my communication skills, which had nothing to do with reality, I was surprised to say that I was not surprised that the real reasons for my discharge were not conveyed to me by the President of the Government. I allow mistakes to happen, that some day is more difficult and stressful for any lady or gentlemen and things are happening in haste. But since I have been a minister for two years and have signed a number of important documents every day, I know how necessary it is to have competent, professional, reliable and responsible persons with whom no details are missing. However, I have never signed any letters of preparation without knowing what follows in the annex. And I believe it's happening in the President's office in a similar way. But I allow myself the possibility that an unloved paper error could have occurred in the National Assembly; I have not cleared this up; I believe that this error will be cleared and clarified during the day. I'm responsible for what I sign. So I need to know what I'm signing. I am also responsible for the annexes prepared by professional colleagues and they are equipped in accordance with office operations and are known by their author. All civil servants and officials are committed to working in accordance with the law, responsible and conscientiously and in accordance with the instructions of people-friendly administration. I've been monitoring the government's work for two years. It's not a rule to communicate with the Ministry in this way. However, I know that in some cases they are very conscientious, as there are even records of informal and secret conversations written with all due diligence, accuracy and all the necessary elements of the official document. So, I'm not going to blame anyone for the mistake of not being informed in writing about the reasons for my discharge, and I've just been informed of them. Because I do not want to cause procedural complications and because I believe that the writing already mentioned is a working draft and because the draft has recently been understood as a harmonised document and adopted by the Government, I will not propose a suspension and postponement of the meeting, but I will try to respond to some of the arguments contained in this draft. It is true that the Prime Minister never spoke to me about my work, but in his letter he informed me that I was not achieving the expected results. It is true that this happened on 13 February 2006. This writing has all the ingredients of the official record. It is true, however, that on 20 February 2006, I answered this letter in a comprehensive manner and rejected the reported shortcomings and some of them due to misinterpretation. It is also true that I have made my expectations clear in this reply to the President of the Government. Let me quote: "If not, I miss your response to my work on key ministry policies and issues such as active employment policy, the issue of fertility in Slovenia, the problem of building a home for the elderly, changes in the labour market and social policy, and implementation of reforms, including criticism." End of quote. It is also true that, due to his lack of access to my work, I have repeatedly informed him in writing through e-mail, but there was no feedback, views or direction. It is not true that I am not achieving the expected results, which also proves the additional material you have received today and I am happy to sign it with full name and surname. During the period 2005 to 2006, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs prepared an inter-resort with the social partners and a coalition coordination, submitted to the Government and the National Assembly for adoption 25 laws and 47 other regulations and regulations. This is statistics that reject any claim that my work was ineffective. It is not true that my Ministry of Human Resources and Organizational Affairs is not consolidated. This is demonstrated by the above statistics, since it is not possible to expect all this legislation to be drawn up by incompetent, non-professional and poorly managed officials and experts. Nor is it true that my conflicts with subordinates, with some social partners and colleagues in the Government, would be a drastic departure from the government's average, except when it comes to the application of Article 114 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the work where it says that each minister is responsible for the work of his ministry, i.e. the appointments that are under his authority and responsibility. Finally, during my administration of the Ministry, social security has increased and measures have been taken to prevent the abuse of social transfers. In order to reduce unemployment in Slovenia from 93,932 unemployed at the end of 2005, i.e. in November to 79,493 unemployed in November 2006, by the help of the correct and carefully selected programmes and by the exemplary cooperation and effective functioning of the Employment Service in Slovenia. That the employability of disabled persons in this year due to the correct policy and the adoption of the quota system increased by almost 50%, with the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act - by the way, last year the law was adopted by a large majority, with 66 votes - increasing the social security of pensioners in Slovenia. That changes have been adopted in the area of family legislation, which brings more social security for young families, for large families and families with disabled children, that with invitations to concessions for homes for the elderly and the adoption of a strategy for the protection of the elderly, we have taken care of the better age of our citizens during the third life period. I won't mention it again, although the list isn't finished yet, because you also have the material. I am aware that we will never solve all problems so that we cannot stop all the pressures of individuals. But I am convinced that my work so far has brought a number of smiles to those who have been in distress, which, as a result, brings more joy to life, which has been my guide all along. But I ask you, this is a job under expectation, prepared by non-professional, uninterested and weakly led professional colleagues who are in unsustainable conflicts with the leader. Let me conclude, as I concluded on 20 February 2006, in reply to the President of the Government. I regularly check both my own and the work of my subordinates, but I am convinced that if the President of the Government wants to relieve me, it is his responsibility. The reasons given in this letter will be unusual. Otherwise, I took up the ministerial function in order to achieve the goals that I had already pursued as a staff member of the Employment Service, and I later worked for them as a member of the opposition within the Slovenian Coalition, which is unfortunately completely forgotten. I don't need a ministerial position for myself, but for the mission we have to carry out. That's what we promised the voters. What I wrote to the President of the Government this February applies today. The reasons for my resolution are unusual and, on the basis of the work done, is incomprehensible. The evidence for my claims is a document you have on your desk and a talkative witness of my effectiveness or effectiveness. Indirectly, it makes it clear that the Ministry has a well-trained, properly managed and well-motivated workforce. That's why I don't intend to resign as Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all, to the President of the Government and to the entire ministerial assembly and, of course, to all of us in the Chamber. We have before us a proposal from the President of the Government, who addressed to the National Assembly a proposal for the discharge of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, mag. Janez Petty Officer. The President of the Government, in his explanation for the proposal, said that the Minister had already warned on 13 February this year that he was not achieving the expected results, that the Ministry was not adequately staffed and organisationally trained, but that communication with the outside world was often too slow and too formal. The Prime Minister expected a response, expected improvements in work and better results. The president of the coalition party was also informed about this. The President of the Government has acted very tactfully because he is Minister of Mag. Dr. Bajuk, Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. and President of New Slovenia, drew attention in writing and discreetly to the problems he had encountered in the work of this department and expressed his expectation that the Minister would continue to act in this Government. After nine months of assessing that his expectations had not been met, the minister proposed that he resign, and so he suggested tactfully. The Minister did not listen to the initiative, and the President of the Government had no choice but to ask him to resign publicly. When this call was also ignored, he decided to send a proposal for a discharge to the National Assembly. This time, for the first time in this coalition, we are faced with a proposal for a change in the ministerial position, so this thing may fall a little harder and more emotionally than it would otherwise have been. In the Group of Members, we believe that the only relevant measures to assess the Minister's performance are the result and the assessment by the President of the Government whether the continuation of such pace and working methods, the stated objectives in the Coalition Treaty, within a limited time limit, is possible to achieve this by the end of the term of office. Feelings need to be left aside. In general, Slovenia is today a respected country. In the last two years, it has jumped into the European space, becoming recognizable by its results. Among all the new members of the European Union, it is the best and most successful. Indicators such as gross domestic product growth, the Maastricht criteria, business performance, real wage growth and improved labour market integration have been met, and a tax reform has been carried out which significantly improves the tax situation of individuals, independent entrepreneurs, farmers, businesses, free professions and, in addition, a significantly improved administrative environment, reduced or even abolished public authority costs, are only some of the criteria that hold Slovenia above the achievements of the most successful countries. Europe has set up a Lisbon strategy to make it the world's most successful economy. Slovenia is even more ambitious. The strategy for the development of Slovenia is more difficult and its objectives are significantly higher than those set out in the Lisbon Strategy, because we want to catch up with the European Member States. But there is an important difference. Slovenia is significantly better at meeting its objectives and, therefore, we have no problem maintaining the Maastricht criteria and also achieving better targets than the European Union as a whole. As the first member, we will take over the euro, and we will also be the first to co-chair the European Union. Slovenia travels at good speed and on a safe path. However, the impact of government measures is interactive, interrelated and has positive effects in different areas. Surely a good macroeconomic environment has enabled tax reforms to be carried out and has given the economy and individuals an additional impetus. New businesses are being created, new, more demanding programmes are being developed, new jobs are being created, including for young people. This also has a positive response in the labour market and together with active employment policy measures and other measures reduce unemployment, wages rise and the need for transfers decreases. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs also contributed to its joint contribution. Undoubtedly a demanding, divisive, socially sensitive and financially difficult resort. However, there is also no secret that we have been caught up in social dialogue, that we have witnessed conflict situations that have prevented negotiation and negotiation. Some of the problems from the executive work have also been transferred to the National Assembly, and in all those proposals of the Minister, where there has not been a consensus of the economic social partners, consensus in the coalition or later in the partnership, we have had serious problems and complications. One year from now, we will be chairing the European Union. With such a hard regular work, it will be necessary to further engage if we want the Presidency to be successful and if we want Slovenia to place a new stone in the mosaic of recognition and success. Much more will require full confidence in the executive branch of power. The government will have to work even more in sync and there will be a high level of confidence and cooperation among ministers. It is therefore necessary to establish the conditions for normal operation in a timely manner. We therefore do not understand the proposal of the President of the Government as a competition between coalition partners, but as a measure of normalising relations, which is necessary to improve success and accelerate development. All members of the Government must act in sync with each other and not in front of each other or even against each other. This also applies to coalitions. I expect that the coalition will continue to work successfully until the end of the mandate, despite this proposal for a solution. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Anton Rop will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u8	Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister, President of the Government! What we have to listen to today may be interesting, but I must say that I hoped that you would spare the entire Slovenian public with your divisiveness, disunity and disharmony. I was hoping that you would be able to agree as mature coalition partners, as partners who are aware that they have taken responsibility for the leadership of the country, for its development and stability. Apparently, your efforts have been unsuccessful. In these days, every day, at various ends of Slovenia, we are accompanied by chaos - chaos on the streets, chaos before and in villages, confusion in the police ranks, confused ministers, police who are scared, village guards who control the police, who have taken over the role of the rule of law, which obviously does not work, throughout Slovenia and beyond the institutions of the rule of law. So we have an increasingly poor functioning legal state, and at least it looks like we have a decaying government. Today we are listening first to the President of the Government, who claims that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Vice-President of New Slovenia is unable to perform his functions for various reasons. Then we listen to a minister who claims that the President of the Government is wrong to make wrong assessments, that he is a very successful minister and that he has only been following the government's and the same Prime Minister's policies. Although we do not want to interfere in the debates, divisions and squabbles within the government coalition and the government, we agree with both of them this time, at least in our work. We agree with the President of the Government that the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is not fit to perform the duties of minister. But we also agree with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs that he, as Minister, has very effectively implemented the government's policy and the policy of the same Prime Minister of the Government. What are we even talking about today? We are convinced that we are talking mainly about the policy, programme and work of the whole government. We are talking about the policy both the President of the Government and the Minister, and practically, with rare exceptions, all Members of the ruling coalition have been here until yesterday, in this Chamber and in front of the Slovenian public inflamed and bitterly defended. Everyone, every time, at every meeting of the parental committee, at the meetings of the National Assembly, you've accepted everything! You have accepted everything that Minister Petty Officer has proposed on behalf of the Government. You've never rejected a single proposal. Neither any proposal nor any suggestion of the opposition, and these, has been enormous if in any area, indeed in this area, you have never taken it into consideration, ever. We have never proposed anything appropriate, and it is always what the Government has proposed and on behalf of the Government Minister Drobnic, only that was good. Today we listen to another story even more. Not only have you never listened to the opposition, which may even be understandable, but you have not heeded any suggestions from both the profession and the professional associations. And in particular, of course, never propose social partners. All the Minister's proposals that you put on the pranger today have been confirmed every time, and you supported it every time. It was supported by the Government, supported by the coalition, both New Slovenia, both SDS and SLS, as well as DeSUS. In the last 9 months alone, in the last 9 months alone, the coalition and the government have unitedly supported you, both the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, the Social Protection Act, the Minimum Wages Act and the Transfer, Individuals and Household Coordination Act in the Republic of Slovenia - all of them in recent months, all of these 9 months, all of the time that today is talking about that you started talking about within the coalition. And virtually all of the proposals I was talking about were inconsistent with the social partners, and in all of them, you interfered with the rights of employees and the socially disadvantaged, the rights of students, and with all of them you increased the social distribution and income disparities in Slovenia. But you've agreed with everyone and confirmed everything and accepted everything. Minister Drobnič was undoubtedly an effective, very efficient drafter and a government politician. So what's the problem? Perhaps in the fact that Minister Drobnič failed the economic and social reforms that you have been talking about for so long, and some have even been defending them that the only reforms the Government has understood literally and tried to actually carry out. It's practically the only one. Perhaps because Drobnic has begun to reveal too clearly the face of the policy led by this Government and this Prime Minister of the Government; or because someone needs a sinful goat for his wrong policy and found it; and indeed, it is ideal in Minister Drobnik. Everything shows that, if, of course, it is true that what the President of the Government himself stated in the Turnout, 27.11.2006 quote, I quote the President of the Government: "I asked the President of New Slovenia this year for the first time to propose another candidate, after we have assessed it together, I repeat, together that I have assessed that the current one is not appropriate. And actually, I've been waiting nine months for a new name, and to this day, despite a repeated request, I haven't been given a new name." End of quote. Very interesting. It has been practically 9 months since both of them agreed, the President of New Slovenia, the President of the SDS and the President of the Government, that this Minister is not doing well, that it is necessary to resolve him, but at this very time this Minister has proposed the most important laws in the field of social policy, in the field of work, in the field of family policy - all of you have accepted, no comments have been made, no addition, nothing has been rejected. Right at the time when it was said he wasn't good. And what's interesting, of course, is that both of them agreed with the resolution, as the Prime Minister of the Government said, after this magnetogram of this. This reflection is more than obvious, both agreed - both the President of New Slovenia and the President of the SDS. In these days, we listen to other stories that this is not exactly the case. We also hear that Nova Slovenija, which I think is consistent, is behind Minister Drobník, who has been preparing this policy and who has always supported this policy, and in this context this is a consistent relationship and one party's attitude. Although I do not know what the President of the party thinks about this, it is not clear from what I have said so far or what we can read and hear, especially not from what the President of the Government is saying here before us. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the LDS, we are convinced that the policy of the entire government, the whole government in the field of social policy, is inadequate. We disagreed and disagreed with the solutions that exacerbate and aggravate the situation of the most socially endangered parts of the Slovenian population, so we did not support, for example, the Resolution on Social Security, which was supported and adopted by the Government. We did not agree and did not support the Unemployment Insurance Act, in which the right of unemployed persons to participate in an active employment policy programme was abolished. We did not support the deterioration of the conditions for employment of students through student services. We have not seen any logic in this, and we have prepared many proposals to improve this law. Not only us, including students, but also social partners - none of this has been listened to. We have not supported the new Minimum Wage Act, which you have also adopted during this period, which leaves the fixing of the minimum wage without coordination in the Economic and Social Council and without social partners. This law was supported and adopted by the Government. The President of the Government is today explaining the inappropriate conduct of social dialogue. However, he calmly supported, I believe that he even voted, perhaps it was not necessary to vote at the meeting when this law was passed; past the social partnership, past some of the most common mechanisms for determining and coordinating the level of minimum wage in each social state. We did not support the new Social Protection Act, which violates the granting of monetary social assistance to the most deprived citizens and citizens of Slovenia, you supported it by Members and members of the coalition and this Government - Drobnič brought it here and carried it out through the National Assembly. And we have not supported the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, which take as many as 12 billion Slovenian Tolars for those with the lowest remuneration in the next three years. This is a law that was passed in the same week as the new Income Act, with which the Government, when it reduced those socially disadvantaged benefits by 12 billion, reduced those richest, 40% of the employees with the highest wage tax burden by 30 billion. We didn't support it, but you accepted it the same week! First you took those who had at least 12 billion, then you gave them to those who had a maximum of 30 billion. To those who have the least and lowest wages, to those 20 percent because you boasted of giving to all, but you did raise your wages this week and raise them by 600 tolars. This is the social policy of this Government, which is comprehensive, ranging from the President of the Government to the Minister of Finance, of course, and also to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And more. After you have done all this within one week, the President of the Government sends Minister Drobnič to talk to the unions about the Labour Relations Act, the reduction of cancellation deadlines for employees, the reduction of transport costs to work, the suspension of lunch. A very difficult task, but the Prime Minister of the Government, who first supported such changes, then asks Minister Drobnič to achieve the impossible, that is, an agreement with the unions. It's impossible, there's not a negotiator who can do it, not a little thing, not a Janša, but a lot of other people, probably no one. Last but not least, we are and cannot and will never support a new resolution on increasing births with extreme, extremely conservative proposals and extremely conservative, inappropriate proposals on limiting abortions and their payment and state control over decision-making on the birth of children. It is a proposal that is not only unconstitutional, unsocial and at this time incomprehensible, but also evidence of the extreme ideological limitations of family policy holders in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! What you are doing these days in Slovenia is not good. It is not good for us to grow impatient, to witness daily riots, the powerlessness of the authorities, that the rule of law does not work, that the government falls apart and does not function and is dealing with itself. This is not good for Slovenia, nor for its international reputation and even less for the successful preparation of the Presidency of the European Union. In the LDS, we believe that the policy of the entire Government and the President of the Government is in particular in the field of work, family and social, bad, flawed and ineffective Minister Drobnic, but only a faithful and consistent operator of this policy. This is a fundamental reason not to vote against its resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Assembly, dear colleagues! Unfortunately, I too have to agree with Mr Robb when he says that today's meeting is a waste of time. Slovenia has too many problems to sit in this hall for hours and hours and essentially solve the lost story. I think the government could do something wiser and smarter. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Government for the resolution of the Magi. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Even before the resolution was proposed by the President of the Government, we expressed our readiness to support and participate in the preparation of the intervention against the said Minister in the Group of Social Democrats. There will be no reservations in the Social Democrats Group, we estimate that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been doing extremely badly. He ignored social dialogue, ignored students and most of the rest of civil society, proposed non-social laws that were particularly unfriendly to people. To avoid criticism from the opposition, he was absent many times at meetings of his mother’s working body or of the National Assembly and thus showed how you feel about the legislative authority at all. We also resent the fact that, instead of seeking common solutions, the Social Democrats have all too often referred to the already well-known principle of this government that a few trees require cutting down the entire forest. Arrogant was not only to the opposition, but unfortunately also to the journalists. Minister Drobnič did bad things with his way of working and with his suggestions to the state and citizens. We have constantly warned the public and also the President of the Government through press conferences, through questions and initiatives sent and through direct letters of case. With an oral question, we warned him about the Government's worrying attitude towards social dialogue and cooperation with civil society, particularly in the areas covered by Minister Drobnič in 2005 and April. More than a year and a half ago, that's what happened. At the very beginning of this government's term of office, in January 2005, we warned the Government as a whole through a press conference. The Prime Minister has been too blind and deaf for our warnings. On the contrary, he stifled with simple answers and all the time argued that there was nothing wrong with the Minister's work and that the whole Government, that is to say Minister Drobnic, respected social dialogue. We fully agree with all the reasons given by the Prime Minister as a reason for the Minister's discharge, and of course we have more. However, the fact remains that these reasons have not now emerged, but have been accompanied by the Minister since the beginning of his term of office, and the President of the Government has always known them very well. We also find it difficult to believe that only at his last meeting with the union representatives did he learn how the coordination is taking place, for which the Minister for Trade and Trade has been responsible, and they have been pointing out this throughout the Minister Drobnic's ministry. The same warning was given to the president of the government by the students. Why, then, did he decide to propose a solution only now? The reason is likely to be that the recent moves and positions of Minister Drobnič have experienced a lot of criticism in the public; that the reputation of the entire government and the entire coalition have been diminished. Therefore, Janez Janša did not interfere with the Minister's two-year harmful operation and destruction of the social state. It did not move until the Minister's work began to cast a shadow on the coalition, on the government and, of course, on the Prime Minister. According to our assessment, with the discharge of Minister Drobnic, she will gain the most precisely the social state. At the same time, of course, we hope that he will not be succeeded by a person who represents the continuity of his work. The area where Minister Drobnik's work was most harmful is certainly social partnership or social dialogue. Social partnership is one of the most important achievements of modern societies, which enables social peace, conflict mitigation, development that benefits everyone, and consequently the well-being of the wider community of citizens. The establishment of an active social partnership and the signing of a social agreement is certainly one of the most important achievements of the previous Government and former Minister Dimovski. For Social Democrats, social partnership is one of the fundamental values. On our proposal, the National Assembly has already recommended to the Government in January 1998 that, in all the laws the content of which is linked to collective agreements or other forms of communication between the social partners, it explicitly states whether an agreement has been reached with the social partners, how coordination has been carried out, which are uncoordinated issues, how the whole procedure of the law has generally been carried out. At the time of adoption of this Decision, the social partnership is an integral part of the regulation of Slovenian society, and unfortunately it is all too often forgotten and even deliberately despised. Slovenia has so far been an economically successful and socially sustainable society. And also because it promoted social dialogue because it strengthened respect and trust among the social partners and because the authorities understood it as an obligation to act in a public interest, but not as a arrogant and self-sufficient act that sees only its interests, it expects the obedience of others and the content is subject to deadlines. On the basis of the agreement between the social partners, the Act on Labour Relations was also adopted and in line with European standards, and the social partners insist that it also changes and complements it. Since the beginning of his mandate, Minister Drobnic has shown an under-appreciative attitude towards the social partners and, above all, the unions. However, his defiance and demeaning attitude towards the representatives of the working party were the most pronounced by his famous statement that he himself would represent the workers in the negotiations on amendments to the Labour Relations Act within the Economic and Social Council. The Minister has thus shown that he does not understand or simply reject the importance of the social partnership and the role of representatives of individual interests in it. The next group that apparently wasn't good enough for Minister Petty Officer is students. The new Employment and Insurance Act for the case of unemployment at work, which refers to student and student work, was initially coordinated by the minister with the students. But it quickly turned out that this alignment was with the fig in his pocket. The student organisation of Slovenia, which is a statutory representative of students, was prepared to waive part of the concession fee in order to increase the funding for scholarships. Apparently, that wasn't enough for the coalition. At the meeting of the mother's working body, amendments were made by the coalition's parliamentary groups with the obvious impalement and the blessing of the minister, which, if accepted, would mean the reckless grading of student work, the dismantling of student organisations and the abolition of student financial independence. Fortunately, after the bitter reactions of the students and the opposition, some coalition partners also resisted. The minister and the students came back into conflict with the amendments to the Student Nutrition Act. This story, of course, is not yet finished and it is to be hoped that the successor to the student positions will find more obedience. Minister Drobnic also acted against the socially weak, which is against those whom he should take special care of as Minister of Social Affairs. With the Act on the Coordination of Transfers of Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, the most vulnerable population, with a modified way of coordinating social transfers, has made the income situation worse in the long term. In some, it is also possible to do so by endangering their existence. With amendments to the Law on Social Protection and Employment and Unemployment Insurance, recipients of financial social assistance forced them to accept any work, including unpaid work, or virtually after a decision by an official from the Employment Office, to lose the right to a single income. In doing so, the Minister was deaf to warnings from the public and the opposition, which strongly opposed such solutions. At the time of the consideration of both amendments to the law, we have always warned that it is unacceptable that the obligations of recipients of monetary social assistance are governed by the assumption that all people are lazy and speculative people who avoid work. That is why we have proposed that the recipients of monetary social assistance be equal to the recipients of monetary compensation in the case of unemployment. This would still mean that they should take two levels of lower employment in relation to their education. We have also proposed that the country prepare people to work with stimulation, not just threats and punishment. At the beginning of his term of office, Minister Drobnič showed what his method of work would be. Among the first were so-called war laws, which were temporarily not properly coordinated. With their contents, the Minister made clear his attitude towards the half-lived history. In doing so, the proposed intervention in the rights of disabled persons of war, which Mr Drobnič accompanied by manipulations on the astronomical levels of the remuneration provided for in this title, was particularly significant. Minister Drobnič has made special progress in favouring the Roman Catholic Church, which will surely lose the most loyal ally in this government in the event of its resolution. Although there was no need for this and even less professional arguments, Minister Drobnic insisted that, according to the new and well-qualified workers in the field of social protection, theologians with specialization may also be employed. Of course, this did not interfere with the fact that even social security graduates do not have a place to work and live as job seekers at the Employment Services. But perhaps the minister is dedicated to humanitarian work in church forests, somehow in accordance with the principle of "Pray and Work". Benovalec to the Roman Catholic Church also showed up in the award of concessions for nursing homes. However, Minister Drobnic met the government's goal of complete takeover and consolidation of power. Despite his explicit opposition to the social partners and the opposition, he increased the influence of the institutions with a partner system by amending the laws. The Authority's monopolisation continued to be attended by the Pension Insurance Office and recently by the Employment Service. As a reason to support the discharge of Minister Drobnič, mention should also be made of his insulting attitude towards individual groups. At the opening hearing at the home work body, he stated that homosexuals would be more likely to be part of the Ministry of Health. What he meant by that is clear. However, it became even clearer when it came to the issue of same-sex partnerships. We will also remember Minister Drobnič after he has gravely removed the hand of the journalist Television Slovenia. By doing so, I showed her how she felt about the public’s right to be informed of his work. We Social Democrats from the Prime Minister Janez Janša, then in writing, demanded that the Minister's action be publicly condemned. The Prime Minister didn't do it. He only called it inappropriate. There is no need to pay particular attention to how far such behaviour is from the singing ethical code and general standards of conduct in democratic society. At the same time, it is worth recalling that the President of the Government, at the time, categorically stated that he was not thinking about replacing the minister because that journalist's question was so angry that the minister lost his temper. On the proposal for a discharge, however, we found that the Prime Minister had already warned in February this year that he had to improve the work of the ministry and the management of the department if he did not propose his discharge. An incident with a journalist occurred to the minister at the end of February of this year. So the Prime Minister wasn't honest at the time, or he's not honest today. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Drobnic. We do not support the government of Janez Janša and do not express any favor to the Government of Janez Janša, who has tolerated the Minister's unacceptable policy for too long. We have firmly warned against all the wrong decisions of the Minister, which are detrimental to the social partnership and the social state, and we also want to remain consistent with our policy on the proposal for a solution. The same could be asked of the Prime Minister of the Government. If he also applied the same criteria to the other members of the government team and for the reasons given for the dismissal of Minister Drobnič, he would also assess their work, today we could decide on the discharge of most of the ministers of this government. Failure to respect the interested and professional public in the drafting of legislation and regulations, non-compliance with social dialogue, arrogant communication with the media, unjustified rejection of the opposition's proposals, lack of answers to parliamentary questions, and possibly even more, are characteristics that are in the government's own majority of ministers as a whole. The Group of Social Democrats therefore expects the President of the Government to make it clear to the public what he thinks about the work of each minister individually and to request a change in the way in which they work or to propose their replacement. Predicts to replace three or four ministers, we've heard before yesterday. We hope that it will actually change those who, by their work, do the most harm to the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, given yesterday's vote on interpolation, we're not optimistic. There are many more reasons for the discharge of Minister Drobnik. In the opening position, I did not intentionally touch all of them, because we will also present them to Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group in a further debate. At the end of the presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members, it is also important to note that the co-responsibility for their work is also borne by the President of the Government, who proposed to the Minister for his work, has tolerated him for two years. The entire Government, which, despite inadequate solutions and non-conformity, has confirmed and, finally, the MPs and members of the coalition, who have confirmed these laws in an uncritical and unfavourable way for different proposals and will today support its resolution. The Social Democrats will support Mr Drobnic's discharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President of the Government and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Department of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is very heterogeneous and treats and services citizens and citizens in all their periods of life. This makes working in this ministry very difficult. This is also practically the only ministry that has not experienced a major overheating in the last few years. She's a magician when she's taken over. Janez Petnik knew this as a minister and his work in this ministry can be regarded as positive, given the circumstances in which he was able to work. In early October this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted its first report on the implementation of the reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia and sent it to the European Commission in Brussels a few days later. The report on the most important government reforms highlights measures in the social field that will increase people's willingness to accept work and encourage businesses to increase employment. In the introduction to the report, I quote: "The effects of tax reform on employment will be supported this year by legislative changes that place the right to receive unemployment compensation and financial social assistance more stringently than ever on the willingness to accept the job offered. Together with the government proposal for a law whereby all social transfers would be coordinated only with the rise in prices of living needs and not more so in terms of wage growth, this will create additional incentives for the employment of less qualified persons. Moreover, in the coming year, we are particularly looking forward to increasing the transparency and simplicity of the social transfer system, improving the functioning of the active employment policy and continuing negotiations with the social partners on the Proposal for a Labour Relations Act to bring the government closer to a system of safe flexibility." End of story. These are measures or adopted laws that have been drawn up within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs under the leadership of the Minister of Mag. Janez Petty Officer. With him, the government can rightly boast before the European Union and Minister Drobnič has invested a lot of knowledge in this work, and the effort and energy he has gained much more pollen under his feet. Let me just stop at a few highlights from the work of the Minister of Magi. Janez Drobnič, who speak enough of his work for themselves, of achieving the expected results and coordinating with the social partners. Not one right has been reduced throughout the current Government's mandate, but a number of new ones have been established, and this is most important. The competent Minister of Drobnic, Nova Slovenija and the whole Government can be proud of this. The situation of pensioners, young mothers, disabled persons, some unemployed, veterans, and a number of others improved. I think that we can all agree that Minister Petty Officer has done something in the area of unemployment that we could want to develop in every European country. Unemployment is everywhere the main cause of poverty and consequently social exclusion. We have been able to monitor the data of the employment agency for some time now that unemployment has reached the lowest level in our country since 1991, the lowest in Slovenia alone. This amounted to 79 000 493 in November, compared with 14% in November, and 6% of the unemployed were employed in the same period. The reasons for this success of the ministry are mainly in hard, responsible and very professional work at the Ministry and the good link between the Ministry, the Employment Office and individual centres for social work. In this way, the Ministry or the Ministry has achieved exceptional achievements in the field of employment, using the right instruments and the right programmes of the active employment policy, without a substantial increase in the financial resources in the budget. This could only be achieved through an agreement between the Government and the social partners. So Minister Drobnic was aware of the need for social dialogue and took social dialogue into account in his daily work. That social dialogue has been successful in our country, the Ministry also confirms that there have been 28 regulations proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the Economic and Social Council over the past two years, and that only two or three did not fully agree. During the Ministry's administration, Minister Drobnič managed to harmonise such laws among the social partners, which had been harmonised for several years, for example, the Collective Contracts Act for four years. During the period of its management, the Ministry of Labour established a higher allowance for a large family and at the same time abolished the tax on this supplement. Opportunities were provided for recognition of the working age of one of the parents if she has four or more children and remains at home. Half-life for two children up to a certain age is enabled. With the Ministry's proposals, we have also made it possible for self-employed people to have the same position in parental protection. Recent changes in disability care have increased the employment of people with disabilities by more than 40% this year. So, the minister and the ministry care for everyone. More about his work will be told by my fellow Members. Minister Drobnič was repeatedly identified in the National Assembly as an impatient, xenophobic, backward man and could still find a nickname that was attached to him. That is not the case, according to the adoption of the Law on the same-sex partnership community. If the Minister were indeed as he had been told in the past, then I am sure that the law with such content would not even smell, but not that he was able to bring him through the Government to parliament, where we adopted it last year and it has already entered into force this year. It is precisely the work in this area that points to its breadth, the opposition's colleagues. You're saying this law sucks, it's discriminatory, it's humiliating. However, I wonder where the breadth of all previous ministers and governments, who have failed such a law in the past, was, at least, such a law. Where was the understanding of same-sex rights in the past, colleagues from LDS and SD? Why haven't you prepared and adopted in the past at least the kind of law we have now, if not better. What did you give the same sex? Nothing, empty promises. However, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with his constitutional right, proposes that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Petty Officer, take care of this. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident and also the data I have mentioned speak of being a mag. Janez Drobnič, in his full view, was doing well and, in our view, was no less successful or unsuccessful than the other ministers in the government. Proposal by the Prime Minister of the Government for the discharge of the Minister of Magi We will not support Janez Drobnič in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers and other representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are discussing the proposal of the Prime Minister for the discharge of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Oh, you little thing. Today we have also received a review of the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and also from this extensive review, it follows that the department is extremely demanding and wide and that the results of the work of this Ministry concern all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from this review that much work has been done and, of course, we also acknowledge Minister Drobnič for his two-year work as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We note, however, that the President of the Government is responsible for the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and for the coordination and control of the efficiency of all departments within the Slovenian Government. That coalition parties are responsible for the work of the coalition, both at the government and at the parliamentary level. And if and when the Prime Minister of the Government has found that there are problems in the management of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and has proposed the discharges of the Minister, we confirm and respect the Slovenian People's Party's Group's decision and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, president of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial assembly! In my previous session, I heard an interesting thought: "The hands that help are more sacred than the lips that pray." Let me add, from the sanctity of the word to unholy acts. Government policy in the wider socio-working area, in the area of social policy, was wrong, aimed at disciplining people who are most dependent on state aid; targeted at taking rights, freedoms aimed at subjugating state social policy, the ideology of Minister Drobnic and his great ally of the Roman Catholic Church. In the Slovenian National Party, because of the poor, destructive work of Minister Drobnic in one of the most sensitive areas, at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have already joined the interpretation of the Minister's work and responsibility. And allow me to simply fly over: due to the collapse of the social state concept, due to the lack of respect and avoidance of dialogue between social partners, to the destruction of the concept of the social state, to the exclusionary act or approach in the preparation of so-called military laws, supported by ideological approaches in the re-evaluation of past history; due to inadequate policy in the field of the implementation of the social activity, the protection of children; to the exclusion of the social profession, to the devaluation of professional criteria; to the lack of adequate staffing in the ministry and institutions falling under the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, due to the politically disputed allocation of concessions; to the denial of acquired rights to patients who are suffering from asbestos, due to the lack of proper policy in the field of protection or the assistance of persons with disabilities; to the adverse legislative proposals supported even by the Council of State; to the denial of rights of which the rights already acquired to persons who have been granted to almost third powers; to the judiciary; to the Ministry of Justice, to the Ministry of Justice, to the Court of Justice, to the Court of Justice, to the Court of Justice, to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice; to the Court to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice; to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice; to the Court to the Court to the Court of Justice; to the Court to the Court; to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice to the Court. And it's not true, dear fellows and colleagues, and not least, Mr Petty Officer. It's not true, as you wanted to show in the media, that your commitment to life in our society is a reason for interpolation. You have the ability to manipulate information very well. The kind of information you launch in public because you have political power. All 14 of the above arguments, the arguments I have cited, are able to prove with concrete cases and Minister Drobnic has spoken more or less in his way of misleading the public. And let me once again draw attention to conscious, unreal deception, which is also called a lie. Minister Drobnic says all laws are harmonised. That's just not true. Under the ministry of Drobnič, social dialogue has practically died and is at the lowest point in the period of Slovenia. The vast majority of the laws are drawn up over three-partite coordination, past the agreement or agreement reached, despite the comments made by the profession and, of course, also by the interested public. Let me just list: New Social Protection Act, Novela Law on Minimum Wage, Collective Contract Act, Novela Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, Proposal for a Law on Minimum Wages, Novela Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance. In the first stage, the law was coordinated with students, social partners, but they were awaited by a sheep's wand, hand in hand, because they allowed themselves to organize student demonstrations against the government. On the day of his arrival in Parliament, he was no longer in agreement. In the law is Minister Drobnič and, of course, also respected presidents of the government coalition, you supported solutions different to those that were originally coordinated - alone, past coordination. The 2007 budget and, consequently, the 2008 budget also emerged at this pace. The 2008 draft budget is a unilateral act. The will of Minister Drobnic is reflected in the reduction of the social security budget. Basic concepts, which mean taking rights and lowering standards, are being undermined. This is a real picture, in the grave, a real picture of the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs over the past two years. Under the competence of his work and in the field of social protection, Minister Drobnic lost three constitutional actions. In fact, no minister or minister has lost so many of them to the Social Protection Act and its sub-law in the last 20 years. Minister, on poorly prepared laws, also adopted by the Government, which were vehemently supported by the coalition MPs and Members of all four government parties in Parliament, with the constant support of all one of the representatives of minorities - Minister, you have earned five elected vetoes of the State Council on five laws. The last one was voted two days ago, an asbestos law with which you once again played the patients badly, in an ugly way. I mentioned that the proposals were supported at the government's meetings, that they were also supported by coalition Members and Members, despite the clear indications that the laws are weak, inconsistent, to the detriment of the people, citizens and citizens of our country. And today so hard to spit on, in fact, on your own decisions! Double morality, on the one hand, of the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who, after only two years, found and drew attention to requests, complaints, comments on the work of Minister Drobnik, who finally only reacted after two years. And, of course, the double morality of all those whom Mr. Janez Janša has only turned on the green light to replace the board, replace the record. But I don't think you've completely missed it. All of you, respected colleagues and colleagues who have supported such a policy, bear part of the responsibility. I hope you're aware of this heavy burden. The fact is that Mr Drobnic's ministry is a very strong principle of upholding the constitutional principle of the social state. Minister Drobnič wrote in an additional paper received by Members and Members on the bench today that, in fact, by means of a reform measure, he follows the Government's priorities to a modern, social state. That's what Minister Drobnik's paper says. And I'm asking, is it true, respectable colleagues and colleagues? Politics, Petty Officer's politics follows the philosophy of 1928! The petty policy introduces forced humanitarian work, introduces the duty of accepting an appropriate job, which is in fact every job, every job even under education, even a job that is two degrees lower than that of the unemployed. Otherwise, sanctions are followed in the direction of withdrawing social assistance as the only source of livelihood or financial compensation. This is a document approved in the 2006 National Assembly, Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. In 1928, our country's predecessor, the Kingdom, was subject to a regulation, and allow me to quote: "If after two weeks of labor markets there is no job for an unemployed person who would qualify for it, then the unemployed is obliged to accept the job regardless of the job of the unemployed." Otherwise, the unemployed have lost financial support in accordance with the arrangements then in force. A modern, social state means the introduction of survivors, historically rejected measures, respected colleagues and colleagues. That's bad, that's bad. Terrible backward thinking is also introduced into the Strategy for Raising Fertility. Such an important document was produced by the Ministry within two months. It gives women the basic right to make their own decisions about their body and to take care of their children. This document destroys not only women but also the importance of quality childhood for the future of society as a whole. The Minister allows himself for the alleged reduction of abortion and thus for the larger number of children born, at least so says the Minister, who are not or will not be in our society or will be in our society, our country as an alternative to promoting adoption or fostering. The Constitution states in Article 56: "Children and minors whose parents do not care, who do not have parents or are without adequate family care enjoy the protection of the state." To this end, we have a foster home in our country. The Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, within the framework of children's rights, in terms of their protection, cannot and must not be an incentive measure of the State for us to put our children into foster care because they will be undesirable. Children after this ideology are no longer the wealth of society, but are considered merely a means of long-term sustainability of the pension system, including the words spoken and written by the Director's representatives at the Ministry. I've only highlighted a few things because we're limited in time. Important elements that clearly state that Mr Drobnic is not suitable for the role of Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and that, in order to prevent further harmful action by the Minister, it is necessary to support this resolution in a prudent and wise manner with any call. You know, I'm actually going to conclude today, I find it difficult to understand the euphoria that was experienced yesterday by one of the representatives of the largest coalition party in this House when the whole government was recognised for its successful work and good work. And allow me, the hard morale of those people who, or even in the context of the indemnification of Minister Drobnik, will be guilty of injustice. Let me just conclude the opening presentation of the Slovenian National Party Group to professional quotations, which says more than enough: "Our sin is great if the misery of our poor is not caused by the laws of nature, but by the misery or laws of our institution." In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the discharge of Minister Drobnic of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u18	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Mr President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Prime Minister of the Government has proposed the discharge of Mr Janez Drobnic as Minister of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Group of Members is convinced that it has considered its proposal well. He justified his proposal by failing to achieve the expected results, interfering with the competences of other sources, conflict and operation beyond the coalition contract. The Group supports the proposal of the President of the Government and regrets that Minister Janez Drobnic has not resigned on his own proposal from the President and has left in such honor. We think he is uncritically supported by the New Slovenia Group and may not be aware that, with its consistent support, it indirectly conceals that it has come so far. Of course, part of the blame is taken over by all the other coalition partners, who have been under-intentioned by the ministers' failures and have sometimes supported solutions that were contrary to our own views and beliefs. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the fact that we have been warning about mistakes and bad proposals all the time, but, of course, as the smallest coalition parties, we have recently experienced some support. Since he has not given up, even more, in his speech he is relativising the President's arguments, we will also list some of the substantive reasons that support the President's proposal and, of course, the Minister's discharge. For example, in adopting the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act itself, Minister Drobnič did not wish to include agreed solutions in the coalition contract and did so only at the express request of the President of the Government, in fact at his second request. Of course, he insisted stubbornly on his views on a solution, which ultimately results in pensions still being aligned with wage increases, and in this sense it is clear that we have achieved this unwarrantedly by the opposition. It is also an unrealised growth of the annual allowance and has not been realized under the Coalition Treaty and also some widows due to a small introductory comment on the resolution of the law for all widows, but only for those whose pensioners have died or were insured under the First Pension Fund Act. We also found that things were unacceptable and still unresolved in the field of war laws. In doing so, let us say that the Cemetery Act tried to bring about a final solution in a way that would be responsible for inter-war graves by the invaders and, of course, the revolutionaries or partisans, as if there were no collaboration, national publishers, patriots, Black Hands and the like, which of course we could not agree to. We are pleased that the President of the Government is certainly responsible for the fact that such a solution has not been adopted and I am sure that he will support a solution that will be adopted for all those who want to properly and well resolve that law for the benefit of the dead. Also in the area of the Law on Victims of War Violence, the solution that would leave any possibility for national traitors to realize their status is not good, and that is why the law has not been adopted, although we support non-discrimination all the time, I think the solution to non-discrimination through this law and the obvious in this sense our parliamentary group has been unfounded all the time since the initial proposal. Of course, we support the status of all those victims who have been affected as civilians on all sides, and we certainly cannot support only the theoretical possibility of realizing the status and rights of the victims, including anyone who has betrayed the country or who has been a national publisher. Instead of solving the question of how we write this down, it is required that no one thinks about it, etc. Consider, too, the law on war veterans or war invalids. The War Veterans Act was passed with great agreement in this House and allowed for the status of new categories deserving in the June war, as we have also supported. The law also stipulated that within one month the minister would draw up a regulation by which he would share the money for the organisations, but he did not do so. For this reason, I do not think that for the next two years the funds could be allocated to the budget in an arbitrary and, of course, without the appropriate criteria, by, for example, receiving the New Slovenian Commitment of 12 million money, the Koroski partisans of three million funds, etc., the Society of Evictions of Slovenia with 18 thousand members - 9 million and so on. In doing so, we cannot pass the Minister of Vengeance to the NOV Association of Fighters, and in particular stress that it was wrong that he insulted the partisans of Koroz because he did not sign an account for "all the worlds", he did not want to sign an account for the wreaths, such small ones, with the inscription of the Republic of Slovenia, which should have been placed in Koroška on the graves of the fallen partisans if they received some money. They receive, 3 million, 4 times less than the New Slovenian Commitment and must provide and maintain 54 military graves of their partisans, who have nothing to do with the revolution, but the minister has shown an extremely offensive and unacceptable attitude towards this issue. Of course, Mr Minister has proven his inability to engage in social dialogue. He also demonstrated his negative attitude toward the elderly, stopped building a home, offered a strategy that would not survive for years, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, very expensive care for the poor and those affected by old age who cannot afford expensive care. In doing so, I am thinking of building in a private area or partnership. It has also abolished the start-up funds at home, which have not yet been implemented in most Slovene municipalities and which would certainly have to run for start-up funds by the wider community in order to replace today's huge shortage of beds in social institutions, where there are 15 000 missing, and we have stopped building, although the coalition amendment has been somewhat popular and there is a few million euros more money for the next year, but it will be spent mostly on adapting home and will run out for all that we need. Of course, there is still a whole range of others, not to say serious setbacks, especially in the area of the Social Protection Act, non-compliance with the Constitutional Court decisions - a family assistant, for example. We must admit that we are taking some responsibility, but we would like to say that a lot has not been accepted, but it has been proposed, because we have opposed it, and we have proven not to support all the bad solutions that have come from this department, which can be found from the voting data. The Group of Ambassadors supports the Minister's discharge. We welcome the proposal of the Prime Minister in this regard. In doing so, we must say that we provided such support to the President of the Government in my letter last November, good two months before the Minister was alerted to his poor performance and had almost a year's time to rehabilitate or to blend in with common expectations as to his work. Although I do not deny what has been achieved and done, in the end it is always so that good works are forgotten something before mistakes, and today we are before that. For our Group of Members, replacing the Minister is a perfectly normal matter, and we have also witnessed it in the previous mandate of the Government that we have been in, and in what mandate back, so we do not want to make this a tragedy. But it is right and necessary for all coalitions to be aware of their good and bad deeds and to try to do what is possible in this regard. And the two years of this mandate ahead of us, if it lasts, is right to take advantage of them in a way that will be better than the one before which all of us coalition partners should be taught to listen more to the Members' proposals as well. For it is not true that, as coalition parties or coalition members of this government, these governments should support all ideas, because we know that every government produces a lot of laws. It would be good if the initiative of Members and their proposals were given greater consideration, better thought and more frequent consideration. From this point of view, I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u19	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the President, Mr Minister, Mr Prime Minister. Listen to me, because I'm only gonna say this once. Your Honor, there are a few circumstances that speak at the expense of Mr. Janez Drobnič. Mr Tone Rop already spoke about them and all the others after him. I don't mean to repeat this, some things are, of course, so ethically controversial that they don't belong in this Parliament, in a house of decency. But I would like to talk about everything that has proved to be at this momentous request, following the resignation of Mr Janez Drobnič. Yes, dear John, who served him more than 120 percent, who not only listened to his words, read his thoughts, and fulfilled his most hidden desires, kicked him through the door. Mr. Janez Petty Officer did everything as intended. He was right, too much. And now that this strange part of the work had been accomplished, dear John, although he had praised him a week ago, changed his words and became the one who "stretched" the Empress. That's not how you deal with people. However, we must be aware in this National Assembly that everything that Mr Janez Drobnič has done with his laws remains in this country: all the injustices of the new ones that have been set up, all the dishonesty that has been committed, the entire decomposition of the social state remains, the business is done. Mr Petty Officer Janez Janš no longer needs, that's it. With everything that has been said, of course, and what has been criticised, I agree. And of course, I never agreed with what Mr Janez Drobnic had brought to the National Assembly and what was then voted with such a great enthusiasm. But when that ultimatum happened, "if you don't comply properly with my last command, you'll be out by midnight, you won't be allowed to go to the Finnish sauna," then, of course, I started looking at things very differently. In this Slovenia, which we set up in 1991 to protect everyone from everyone, there is, of course, something to say about Mr Drobnik and protect him. It is not just that we protect those who are poor, but it is also that we protect those against whom there is any kind of vengeance. Mr Drobnic, of course, is not the only crack in this government, there are obviously more of them, although we heard yesterday that it is so uniform that it will be elegantly able to lead the EU Presidency - in the evening of course, Mr Janez Janša has already said that there will be more such ministers. So why "per partes," why don't you just give up on yourself after all? When I watched the insert in Studio City, in which Mr Janez Drobnic performed, I knew he would not give up, because it was then, although it was a very old recording, but he showed some perseverance and perseverance. At that time, he had long hair, that's interesting, then the government cut him off, but, apparently, there was so much of Samson's power left that he brought this problem where it belongs - to Parliament, let Parliament decide whether or not Mr Janez Drobnic will remain. This is important, not hints, not kitchens. I'd like to talk about a lie that we heard a lot about last night, too. Mr Drobnic remained at least so upset that he brought this to Parliament and did not agree to corrupt proposals on some kind of synecure I don't know where and others you lied to; you lied about how united you are, how you support it, and today we hear how it was said, long ago, and so on. So when did you lie? Then, now, or always? Who's next? Rupel, Matt? I don't see them here - are you writing anything yet? Simonita? He must be tired. Erjavec, Beast - who? How do you feel, people? Tell me, how do you feel when you decide somewhere beyond everything outside of democracy, outside of ethics? I'd rather not talk about the ethical code, it's more of a "Kartenspieelung Regierung" obviously, because that's how you can explain things. Mainly, however I vote, I will support the break-up of the coalition and these governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u22	Your Honor! Thus Mr Drobnič 5.7. began the debate on the proposal of the Prime Minister for the discharge of one of the ministers: "Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, fellow Members, members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The reason for today's meeting of the National Assembly is disagreement in the current government, or rather in one of the parties, we can say here, we are simply replacing the coalition that uses this space to resolve its prestigious issues due to growing conflicts, which may also suffer the credibility of the country both at home and in international circles." Well, this history has been repeated in its brutal form in a way that you, Minister, have been directed by this council, which is under the firm leadership of the SDS President, ten minutes at the beginning and ten minutes at the end. However, the President gave himself fifteen minutes at the beginning, and if they say anything positive and otherwise, as he said, he will eventually explain in one more hour if we do not understand what is wrong with your work, with you. Is it fair, in view of your morale, that the one defending himself, the one wanting to prove that he was doing well, and to convince us that the President of the Government misunderstood him that he was given so much time, the one accusing him, the one executing three times or six times as much? It's not fair, but you must be used to it. John Janša was wrong when he composed the government. He underestimated what he actually thought he had enough, that is, his power. Two Johns hit each other. I do not doubt the result myself, but I was firmly convinced when he proposed you as Minister that this was one of his greatest mistakes. Because I recognized you in those years when you were with Robb at the Ministry, and then when you were Secretary of State, the Member was quite a time, as an extremely profiled, hard, hawk, if you want, impatient in all the things you've been defending. And Janez Janša was wrong here - because he thought he was stronger than you. No, it's not. You have shown him that you hope to resist him and that you are one of the few. I talked to many here in the hall, including those sitting in the government, how no one actually hopes to do anything different, what to do if they have no consent. But, of course, because you don't have any options and because the New Slovenia Members say there are many of them, or most of them are those, or all the ministers that should be dismissed before Minister Drobník - it is true. So, why didn't you propose a vote on the government's trust and join in? At the coalition meeting, we would like to propose a vote on the confidential Janez Janša and the entire team. Because what we're doing now, we're probably gonna have to do a few more times. We are not going to do this, however, because SLS ministers will not be able to do this, even the next, not from the New Slovenia, but from the SDS. Let us remember some former Members how their dignity was undermined when they had to leave the types of SDS. Remember Hvalica, remember the Mayor of Gorenje, the mayor of Jizera, there's a whole bunch of them. But that's just the way it works. But, you know, I'm just afraid of what this dictatorship of the Prime Minister of the Government, which says that Minister Drobnič was doing well, he was doing the things we agreed on; but: he was working too slowly, he wasn't thorough enough in his disassembly of the legal, social state, if you want, he wasn't thorough enough and fast enough in that. This is a frightening dictatorship that I have just heard - and already in the spring he was warned, etc. It's true, he didn't put war laws under the roof -- not just by taking that money, etc. - because in fact I would replace the historical facts with some other facts, which he repeated in the previous term the entire mandate in the National Assembly. And there are still many things on the list that he has not been able to do at this time, and they will be harmful to the citizens and citizens of this country. And when I am trying to understand what is actually going on today, why this has happened and why the President of Nova Slovenije did not hope to tell Minister Drobnic in February of what the Prime Minister ordered him to do instead of mag. The little guy's proposing someone else. I understand him because I know what it's like to deal with two of them. He had no choice, he had to lay low and wait for it to happen past him. After all, I appreciate this solidarity of Members, but what solidarity this is to President Bajuk when he does not have the skills of the party to agree that the Minister should go. But, as it is said, Minister Drobnic did not surprise me, he was an impatient hawk to me before it came to this, highly politically profiled, for many others in their positions I cannot recognize this, not now after two years, or after six or eight years when I meet some. Of course, I will absolutely and gladly support it. After all, it is what has obviously been done in the previous periods of the construction of this country under different governments, and it is obviously not secure enough that you cannot dismantle and dismantle it in your image. It's free to talk about concrete things. There were already some of them listed today. Whatever thing you took for granted, it was eventually an accident or a bad result. Thus, the time has clearly come when the President of the Government wants to correct the impression in the public that it is different, however, that these policies implemented by Minister Drobnič do not advocate that he, who is for the social state, is for, say, the rights of minorities, for the rights of certain marginal groups and certain arrangements that have been repeatedly in this discussion. Indeed, this President of the Government cannot afford to be alone with all social groups, in fact, in a frenzy, or to be recognized by people that the Government is behind what Minister Drobnič is doing. I see no great tactics in this part or strategy other than to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u23	Thank you. Wait a minute. Mr Anderlič, in order to protect the honour of this assembly, I must reiterate to you that the leadership of the National Assembly has set the time of discussion for the Prime Minister 15 minutes and for the Minister only 10 minutes to begin and end. The leadership of the National Assembly did not provide for anything, so proposed by the prime minister. They both proposed their time. And you also know very well as a parliamentarian and you have experience from the previous term that only the College can propose a short time to discuss, and you said that this was unfair on the part of the leadership. I mean, ask yourself what was unfair about your statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u24	Mr Sok also made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to my colleague Anderlich, who went before the Slovenian public to interpret some of the links within the New Slovenia party. I would suggest to you, my colleague, that, as president of the world of Liberal Democracy, your parties, in particular, focus on these relations of yours, and you might be better off sweeping your threshold, having fewer articles in the newspapers; but that these matters, which rule within us, will be left to us to decide for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we were able to listen immediately to the launch of the thesis that today's debate is primarily about breaking the coalition, testing its strength and these relations within coalition parties. I myself firmly deny this and I understand today's debate mainly in terms of finding a solution, how the coalition can continue to do at least as well as it has done so far, if not better. Today or at that time, we are somewhere in the middle of a mandate, and if we look back, we see that this government and this coalition have been doing extremely well, because all the macroeconomic indicators, the international public recognises the important achievements that have also been achieved in these two years. What I believe, however, is that others, too, are optimistic, but it is also that we can expect good work and important achievements to continue over the next two years. The government has adopted extremely important strategic and developmental documents, which, with substantial resources to be obtained in the next financial perspective, will, in particular, be at the expense of the extremely good negotiations of Prime Minister Janez Janša, so that we can achieve the important results that we will be included in the summit of the most developed countries of the European Union in the coming years, Slovenia. The claims made today by opposition Members that all the laws proposed by Minister Drobnič were partly true, but did not argue that these laws were adopted without any harmonisation, negotiation and so on. Each law has been given a number of coordinations, numerous negotiations and also consideration of all those interest groups that have been involved in such or other ways by law. Let me mention only trade unions to mention student organisations, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's party itself has had many conversations with such groups and we have tried to take their interests into account. The claim that amendments or opposition proposals were not taken into account is also not true. Let me mention only the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, I think that at least seven, if not more amendments proposed by the Socialist Group of Members, have been taken into account in this law. And even in other laws, if solutions were truly constructive, these things were also taken into account. The responsibility of the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, for each ministry is not the most appropriate one to be attributed here. It certainly bears an objective responsibility for the work of each ministry, but is certainly directly responsible for overseeing the work of each ministry and, if necessary, whether to warn or to take such or other decisions. And that is the kind of decision we face today when we consider a proposal for the discharge of the ministry or Minister Drobnik. It is certainly true that the situation which was inherited at the time of Minister Drobnik's appearance at this Ministry was not jealous. In this area there were a large number of different anomalies, incorrectness to individual stakeholders. There have been many legal loopholes that have allowed many abuses and irregularities in the provision of both social assistance and other areas covered by this sector. I share the view that this is an extremely important resource. And it's extremely complicated. Here, too, substantial financial resources are being channelled or transferred to a number of interest groups. Each of these groups has its own interests. It is particularly seeking its privileges and is extremely sensitive to any changes that have been made through the many laws that we have dealt with. And I'm sure there's been a conflict of interest between groups here. And everyone tried to defend their rights or ratings with all the cannons, privileges from the past. However, let's give our hand to the heart, but here the opposition was pouring coal into the fire and did not want to participate here in the search for constructive and good solutions, but it was misused for political purposes and by sneezing, either publicly or in the background, that individual groups had such performances as we were accustomed to from union protests that were totally unjustifiable to student demonstrations, etc. I fully understand here that Minister Petty Officer and the team have often faced extremely complex, conflict-related problems, with various interest groups, that is a fact. That in a lot of areas, we're also all witnesses to this, and today we're either on a dead end, this resort in many areas. We know that unions don't move things around, that students don't make any progress, and they could even list these things. I also share the view expressed by the President of the Government today that there have been a lot of laws in this area, a lot of important laws have been adopted, and there has also been a lot of progress in terms of reducing unemployment, including the provision of, say, scholarships, student work and so on. However, I do not understand this proposal for Mr Drobnic's resolution in the sense that this would be the result of a lack of confidence in his past work, but, above all, as a solution offered, that the actual work of this department should be accelerated in the future with some new ideas, with new people, that we are going beyond the Gordy knot that has certainly emerged in this area. It was created, as I have already mentioned, by the help of the opposition and many others. I don't understand this stuff as a criticism myself, but mainly as a help to make things move faster in this part of the world. I will then support such a proposal, but not in the sense that I want to be critical, that Mr Drobnič's work has been bad, but mainly in crossing this blind street in which we are witnessing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u28	Thank you. The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished future, former Minister Janez Drobnic! I have to say that when I look at you today, you're actually a tragic figure, some kind of scapegoat. You will not be relieved of what is really written in this proposal for your resolution, because you have not achieved the expected results, but because you have achieved too many of them and you have achieved too many of them when others have already found that they no longer need these results. What am I talking about? You were, in fact, the most loyal soldier and executioner of the things announced in the Janša reform, and in doing so, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša does not want to support you today. I think that, somewhere in February, Mr Janez Janša has already renounced reforms and, in weighing or reforming or power, decided to take power, because the reforms turned out to be distasteful, as publicly rejected, and at that time Janez Janša decided that he wanted to maintain power. At the time, he gave up all neoliberal ideas, he gave up young economists at the time, or a little earlier, people like Mr. Mrkaič had left, and he had already begun to think about leaving after a few months, too, Mr. former Minister Jože Damian. And all these people and ideas Mr Janez Janša used and used only to make it a pre-election trick to win. Today these people, and among them are you, Mr Drobnič, no longer needs, but you do not understand that this period is over and gone. Since the reforms, there has been nothing left of these big words. But the rest are substitutions, it has remained an increased and undeclared influence in the economy and, unfortunately, will remain, at least as far as we are concerned by Liberal Democracy, all the petty laws that have been well broken down and "relaxed" by the social state, and that have been supported by respected colleagues in the coalition so far unscrupulously and consistently, by everyone in a row without problems, without problems, and today the man who has been carrying these proposals is more likely to wash himself in front of the public who already sees it as an unsocial move. In my opinion, the minor's replacement is merely symbolic and means actually the farewell of Janez Janša, the final farewell of Janez Janša and this Government from reforms. Of course, I must say that in no way do I think that Minister Janez Petty Officer is a saint, except that I must say that I appreciate his courage. He's really brave. He surprised me in his rebellion against Mr. Janša. In fact, these people have been very few in Slovenia lately, and I must say that I respect and appreciate them in this respect. However, he also said that he had returned or had a smile on his face to many poor people because of his suggestions. I must say, those smiles probably weren't much. Certainly, however, they were not among those who were due to the fact that today you can talk about reducing the number of unemployed mainly on a bureaucratic, formal level, at the level of some lists that were actually deleted from those lists, and the number has dropped dramatically. These are another "blotted out" in some way, and there are no smiles on their faces. Not on the faces of the unemployed, who, by changing the law, you have drastically reduced their rights. I also doubt that the union leaders who negotiated with you when they were fighting to keep lunches, to add to their working hours or to transport to work and so on. However, I must tell you that there was also no smile on most of the women's faces after you presented your view in the Strategy for Raising Fertility and when we saw that these extremely conservative and backward ideas, which, through this document, came into play when these ideas were actually focused on the fact that the essence of the payment of abortion would have cost more than 100,000 each woman. In the meantime, I personally regret that this period, obviously, and this mandate, will miss out on the right, useful, strategic debate on what this country should do in order to actually increase fertility through appropriate measures. Because there's not much time around here anymore. By introducing ideology into this field, however, of course, there is exclusively and only damage and we are only drifting away from these measures, which we should have taken yesterday, not tomorrow. In short, Mr Former Minister, I will listen to the debate and decide just before the vote how I will vote, because the matter is not as simple as it seems at first sight.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler, a fellow Member of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! Obviously, I am running out of this mandate, but it also looks like Mr Drobnič, as far as the ministry is concerned. And allow me to identify myself to this problem. I will personally support the proposal of the President of the Government. But I will support it because even in the past, given that I have been in the National Assembly for ten years and that in ten years the Slovenian People's Party was present in such or other coalitions. We could have heard here today that Mr Tiny was supposed to be a victim, a figure. In the past, we witnessed when the Prime Minister, former Drnovšek, replaced the semi-ministerial teams and there was no such rumbling. Take a look at how many ministers in the previous government changed during the time of the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovska. Take a look! And I am sure that after two years, if the President of the Government has decided to act on his conscience, he has proposed this. I do not want to go into the content and work of Minister Drobnic at this time. However, I would like to point out that I am surprised at my colleague Drobnic, with whom we sat together for the previous four years in the National Assembly as a skilled politician, that he has chosen such a move as he has chosen today, given that the President of the Government has made a written request for Mr Drobnik's replacement. And the coalition, because one minister will be replaced in the coalition, will not be on the test of strength, and there will be no friction within the coalition. I'm personally sure of that. And in the coalition it bears its own responsibility, as do Members of the Slovenian People's Party, as Members of the New Slovenia, Members of the SDS, as well as Members of the DeSUS. And that's why we've also been given a mandate from the voter stand to take this responsibility and decide today. I myself have decided to support the proposal of the President of the Government, because I see nothing tragic if this happens, and I think the President of the Government has made the right decision. But I'd like to point out something else. I would also like to stress this: for ten years I have been a Member of Parliament, many times ministers have received support from the Members of the National Assembly. Immediately after support, the attitude of ministers towards fellow Members of Parliament has changed several times, irrespective of opposition or coalition. Nor will I be surprised if the President of the Government decides to make another exchange and will receive my support if it comes to a real minister. First of all, ministers must have a relationship with Members regardless of their political party membership. We Members have given the mandate to this Government, to the President of the Government, to ministers, and I expect to do so, regardless of the fact that I will slowly say goodbye to my fellow Members of Parliament that this relationship will be established, and this is the right relationship. Which minister will not cultivate this relationship, the attitude towards the National Assembly, to the composition of the National Assembly, I think he deserves to be replaced by the National Assembly. I think that this will be a serious warning, even today, in the vote of Mr Petty Officer, that it is necessary for this relationship to change. And that is why I am also discussing and saying that I am surprised that Mr Drobnic, in view of his political experience, has decided precisely on such a path, a path which I think is not the right path. This is his personal decision, and it will be my personal decision, as I have also announced, to support the proposal of the President of the Government, with all due respect for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u32	Thank you, too. A fellow Member of Parliament, Happy Friend, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister. A lot of things can be obvious to you and, of course, we can also talk about deliberate negligence, abandoning your work duties, and that is exactly what I want to talk about today. I am pleased that the debate has taken place, because the wider Slovenian public will be able to learn in this way all that you have not written in your explanation. Look, for your work today, extra money is being spent when this could have been saved. We're all talking about your work here today, but you won't be responsible for it. A worker in a factory would be responsible for his sloppy work and be fired from a working relationship, would be subject to the Labour Relations Act and would never be able to work anywhere again. This would fit into his file, and you will be rewarded, because behind you is the Church and today you are "Christ, nailed to the cross". That's you today. The most I can blame you for, besides neglecting the workers, the students, that in fact you have done little for the unemployed and even against poverty. 40,000 poor people in Slovenia who do not have their means of survival have not been taken care of by you. But it's nothing compared to what you did. You did it by trading with the dead, the dying. And look, SABS, the Association of asbestos Patients of Slovenia has warned the President of the Government, and I hope that this has contributed to the fact that the President of the Government has read this letter, because I doubt that he will read all the letters he receives to his office. And in one paragraph, they wrote that "we cannot allow the power of power to be demonstrated in this category of citizens, and even less so, that from this title, politics boils its capital or raises its cheap political points". You know, in Primorsk, in our valley, people are dying because you have ruled out the environmental aspect because you do not recognize that children are dying for this asbestos disease, and also because you do not want to accept the money that Europe gives for the rehabilitation of such severe consequences as the asbestos infection. And that's where I resent you. You're dealing with the dying. They were in this hall twice. You laughed at them. You laughed at them and cynically looked at their faces, pale, many of them had not been present for the second time since they had died. That doesn't mean anything to you, but you're defending collaboration, national betrayal, defending domesticism, excluding even national fighters in terms of what was prescribed for them by law, so you didn't answer because you didn't order them adequate funds, even excuses. You know, your work was nothing like your ministry's address. And it is right that Mr President of the Government has so decided, we strongly appreciate that he has made a wise, wise move for him, but very politically unwise, because those who look at us know that we and our opposition colleagues have warned, we have also put an interpellation against you, we have warned of your misdemeanour, reckless work and also the legal neglect of our duties much earlier. This has happened too late and it is right to go as soon as possible, and I hope that you will come to your place a better minister, who will have more hearing for those who create a gross social product, these are the workers, you did not have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u34	Thank you. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the rest of the Council of Ministers, Minister Drobnic! It is not disputed to me that a decision has been taken to ensure that your conduct in the work so far as you are a minister deserves a recall and also a discharge from the post of Minister. Janez Janša is right at first sight and realizes the wishes, expectations of the opposition, unions, civil society at all. In fact, your replacement is a story about the current situation in Slovenia. This is the story of Janez Janša and his politics. Ambrus, the event in Pyramid this week, Simonita's revealed lies, Grims bragging about authorships, village guards, erased in Brussels, Roma on the higher-gork clan, Janez Janša police, who in the Children's Village smashing the heads of citizens and citizens in the Pendrequet village, this is the release of Slovenia, this is the result of great pre-election promises. Why do I say the result of the government's policy? For a simple reason because it does not, Mr Petty Officer, that you would be particularly inventive in underestimating the social partners. We all remember how John Janša, 40,000 people who demonstrated in the snow and the rain, sent home and explained to them the underestimation that they would rather demonstrate in the spring when the weather was better. How disgustingly he spoke about the student population, which demanded that the rights they already have be preserved and expected Slovenia to take a step forward in this area. You were nothing special in this area, you just followed his pictures and pictures of the Slovenian coalition actually before the elections. That is why I fear that today's entire work in the National Assembly, this show, which the ruling coalition has afforded for the people, is something that happens under a very simple title, Dorian Grey tries to remove his image, hides it as far as possible, and claims that he has nothing with it and has never had anything to do with Mr Petty Officer. This also causes serious discomfort because it is happening in the same way as all the other major moves by Mr President of the Government have been taking place. It is significantly more useful for this country than to suspend or firstly through radio waves to tell Minister Drobnič to withdraw by 24 hours and then to invent reasons in the code of ethics for its resolution. By the way, Mr. Petty Officer is right. There was no single reason in that code of ethics on that day for its resolution. If anyone acted contrary to the code of ethics, it was the Prime Minister of the Government. Therefore, it would be better to ask who is the cause of the situation in this country and to leave on its own. This would allow the ruling majority to choose a new figure, which will divide Slovenia less apart, such a person who will understand that Slovenia did not start yesterday, that Slovenia is not her feud, that others in this country know what else, how it is possible to build on what Slovenia has already achieved through decades of history, and what they can contribute to the progress of this country. But if it is so that the world began with the moment John Janša settled on Gregorčičev, then it does not go far. And how else can it be understood as a fear of the Prime Minister's own image, which is actually signed under every law of Mr Drobnic? How will you feel when you replace it on this spectrum today, respected colleagues and colleagues, when you almost screamed at us when we opposed some of the solutions in his laws? You claimed they were the only real ones, and as we advocate, I don't know, stupid solutions from the old regime. This Mr Drobnic has done this in obvious harmony with you and in coordination with the President of the Government. That's possible to him, but not from your side. If someone could justifiably dismiss it in this logic, the opposition could point to the inadmissibility of his solutions. It's a big hoax. It's simply that you don't hope to look yourself in the face and here is the Tiny Man in great advantage over you. He knows how this government works. He spoke here today about secret meetings and records of secret meetings. I hope we can look at them, unless we live in a state of secret documents and arrangements under a table where it goes, I don't know what. We're in a deprived position. I hope you know any of this. I'm just quoting Minister Drobnik. He hoped to resist being perceived as a figure in a puppet theater. He was not one of those ministers, which was something that literally competed in order to "lick" on the President of the Government, how to make it effective, how quickly he could remove the minister, we had the opportunity to listen. In accordance with the constitutional order of this country, it must, following the regulation of this country, not communicate through the media to whom it should leave, but come to Parliament and propose a solution. It was unethical doing it in the middle. Some run around Slovenia and half of the government deals with some Roma and on the other end their police beat up the majority population. The comedy we've been watching, the tragedy comedy actually isn't in this country's honour last Saturday, let's leave the government's case alone, it's not in this country's honour, but it's a country now. This case was actually warned by Petty Officer's case, it's a symptom. It speaks of the fact that this country still needs the arrangements it has, under which the President of the Government must not speak like some here, when he thinks of it, dismiss ministers. No, if he's really leading the team, then he needs to know how to deal with ministers about the project and be honest with them if he's got the job done, and if they've done it, he can't tell them they're not, he can't put them off for it. We don't need such governments in this country. The concentration of power in the hands of the Presidents of the governments is already large enough, so it seems to me that it is very good that someone has hoped to tell the President of the Government, Mr President, to elect a Parliament; there is a place for me to be suspended. Well, if I do. It seems to me that Slovenia has come under this authority so far that it would be more appropriate than to discuss today the case of Drobnic, which we have already talked about many times and we understand that we do not agree with all of his moves. By the way, I think more than half of what he's made is acceptable. A lot of solutions in marriage are real, but we've been talking about months and months about those who aren't good. I know that he, too, I think I'm not wrong, in some cases, especially in the conflict with students, he was forced into more radical measures from the President's Cabinet, that the President is probably not himself, he would imagine, because he also said that they didn't say much because he was using others to communicate with ministers. So what are we supposed to do? To reconsider where we are taking Slovenia. It is impossible for the President of the Government to carry out this consideration. Perhaps it would be time to begin discussions in the auspices of the President of the State on where Slovenia is today. Indeed, the situation is everything before it is appropriate. To get there, the representatives of the parties, including people from the government and civil society, and without a media pump, begin to talk about how to remedy the imported situation. For two years, you've only had a rudder in your hands, and it's been a wild chariot in the sky, and now it's setting the sky on fire, and the second time it's earth again. It needs to be calmed down. If you do it that way for two more years, it'll be too much. Slovenia will lose what it has gained also thanks to some who are sitting in the government today, even because of the person who is leading the government today, but just because you were right once doesn't mean that you can do whatever you want with it. I myself will not support Minister Drobnič, nor, of course, the President of the Government, who has ordered everything that Petty Officer has done. Why should we move here and support his decision? Let him come and propose his resignation, that's the only right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u36	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. I think it started out the way it was for every coalition government. It's a process of inter-mandatory cleaning. It is only a pity that, given the situation and the situation in Slovenia today, there is no proposal for four or five ministers to be resolved in the National Assembly. Otherwise it is to sit in the coalition government and be a minister in the coalition government as if sitting in nets - burning, burning, aching and burning again until you leave or if someone throws you out. Apparently this year is still marked by something - the year of John. But it is not those Johns who would be the result of the increase in birthrates in Slovenia, but those Johns who receive such or different criticisms of others, or who intercede among themselves. Let us remember that at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the public, especially the coalition MPs, had much to say about the RTV law on Janez Kocjančič. Later on, John the Resident. During the summer, in early autumn, we listened to a dispute between John Drnovšek and John Janša. Today we are listening to a dispute between John Jansa and John the Ripper. In short, in these stories of these Johns, of course, there are not those polite phrases "dear Tone, dear Borut", as you know coalition Members to repeat repeatedly, but this is the process in which Branko goes over John, in which John goes over John. These are completely different stories that we have witnessed to them recently. In recent months, the government and individual ministers are very quick to present their two-year work. Among other things, Minister Drobnič did this and it must be said that he was also convincing for a large part of the public with a sense of efficiency. However, the Prime Minister does not feel that way and prefers to switch. Here we go. From the same lair, the government, two different assessments. What is the question, which is the one to believe? In other words, why and why do two Johns judge the same thing differently? Is it jealousy that the Minister is still supposed to be a reformist, and the Prime Minister of the Government has been a good time, or is it something else? As I have already said on one occasion, the government or ministers and ministries answer questions that no one has asked, even in the National Assembly. This raises the question of the importance of answers that do not answer the question. But this is clearly the way this government works, this majority policy. When the Government is truthful, it should reply that such behaviour is characteristic of a policy that does not need questions at all, for a policy that is not prepared to answer questions, for a policy that speaks rather than listens to, for a policy that listens only to itself, which is not prepared for dialogue, especially to social dialogue and which knows all the answers. However, if he does not know any answer, then a "cheap" excuse is already in place, which each of the coalition members or representatives of the coalition already have in mind. It's the past government, it's the past 12 years, it's the past 50, 60 years, etc. And the product of such a policy is Minister Drobnič, just one of the ones we are dealing with today. A mistake or its advantage is only that it is one of the most reliable in demonstrating such a policy and in the public. And I hope we'll play some tennis again, given his persistence, because I've always enjoyed these tennis games. Therefore, it is not only in terms of the work and efficiency of the Minister for Labour and Family that the discharge proposal itself can be assessed, but rather in terms of the operational executive of government policy and government policies. And I'd like to narrow the grounds for discharge for Minister Drobnik in three points. First. Both the Government and Minister Drobnič and the Ministry of Labour have not fulfilled the many promises they made at the beginning of their term of office in the past two years. Another time. Both the government and Minister Drobnič are doing poorly with this country, which is why Slovenia has missed many opportunities for more successful and faster development. And in the end. The government, ministry and ministers are responsible for an even greater range of clientism and corruption than has been the case in the past. There's only so much talk about it, but mostly things go under the rug. Therefore, you are not very convincing or convincing arguments about reducing registered unemployment, which is so much talk if the unemployed themselves find that they are not on the list of registered unemployed because they have been transferred to other records. Also calls for prosperity, on the other hand, there are almost 700,000 citizens and citizens of Slovenia who receive less than 150,000 tolls per month. Pensioners for a full 40-year period and workers employed for 170 hours a month, on the other hand, the Government, the Ministry, the Minister on its behalf, for its name, is withdrawing subsidies for the unemployed, violating social transfers, the Government is abolishing tax exemptions for the purchase of dwellings for young families and, on the other hand, the richest by a new amendment of tax legislation is granting exemptions for the payment of income. The current power elite shares enormous amounts in supervisory councils in companies, while the government and the government are squeezing and reducing - and here too is Minister Drobnič - the standard of participation of workers in the management of businesses. It uses an unrealistic argument that it is in the countries of the European Union, and the argument is completely different, cannot sit on the board of directors in the single system or in the supervisory board of workers who earn less than the minimum wage in Slovenia, that is, 125,000 tolars if they could get 120,000 tolars for the same sitting in this supervisory world in two hours. This is the real story of why the standard of employee participation in corporate governance is falling. And at the end of the day, Comrade Grill, I listened for two days and there were many words, I did not use the word "lie," but today I have to use it -- the word "lie." Mr Grill said that 7 amendments to the Social Democrats' parliamentary group had been adopted under the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of the unemployed. To restore and do well, you have everything online to go to the base. On the committee, two of the four amendments were adopted by the SD, eight amendments were made in the second reading in the National Assembly, and no amendments were adopted, and three amendments were tabled in the third reading and none were accepted. I think you're a naturalist, and at least this part of mathematics can be mastered. Once again, it's a lie, it's a drowning, and this lie is repeated from the meeting. Once again, you have computers, look at the database and then operate with data in the National Assembly and in front of the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u38	Thank you, too. The word has been given by Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Well, as we will vote in the DeSUS Group of Members, it was initially said. I should just add to this that I personally expected the proposal that we are talking about today, we are discussing that I wanted it and that I am sorry that this proposal did not happen a little earlier. Also because now we probably have the worst possible option of this debate that we could come up with. Some will, and have already done so today, try to compose support, list all the major sins, all the mistakes, all the problems and everything else that can be attributed to the ministry and the minister. Some by turning to the minister more personally, others slightly wider to the government, while others more generally to the coalition. It was also interesting for some to listen because they were trying to understand what was going on under the surface. However, some of them did not have these ambitions, but they did just so, bitterly, hit everything in between, for example, by listing all those who are not theirs who support each other forever and all the bad suggestions proposed by the Government or the individual minister. So it simply does not work with the truth and is not suitable for a debate in the National Assembly. I am not interested and will not list all possible disputes, disputes or bad or better solutions in the past. I want to know what's really generating what's causing this discomfort that we're in right now. Perhaps I am wrong about this too, but it seems to me that what generates these problems is an ideological premise that these are some paradigms that work in the way of stereotypes, that the personality structure of Mr Drobnič, its marathon intransigence, stubbornness and perseverance, which is not a bad quality, has probably contributed to this, but that it does prove to be bad when it comes to negotiating when it comes to changing, seeking other solutions and so on. And because, I think, Mr Petty Officer is consistent and has done so far unrelentingly, he probably intends to do so in the future. Because this was not accepted as something acceptable to this coalition, and I think it is right that we just submit to each other's consciences and decide as we think it is right. I think it's right for him to leave to come back to Parliament between us. There will probably be fewer opportunities to act in dispute than there will be for the minister of this ministry. I will therefore support this proposal, and I hope that today we will do as little as possible what is being done, namely that we are doing laundry where the public is laughing more or less justly at us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u40	Thank you, Comrade Rezman. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister of the Government, in his explanation for the discharge, has found that the Ministry, during the ministry of Janez Drobnič, has also achieved some clearly very good results. The claim is particularly evident in the Report on the Implementation of the Reform Programme for the Implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia. The government adopted it on October 12th, and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is a carrier of 19 measures and participates in the 28th. Together, therefore, 70% of the measures needed to achieve the basic objective, increase economic growth and employment for the greater well-being of people in Slovenia. The report states that labour market movements are positive; the employment rate is approaching 66%, which exceeds the European average. Adaptability to work is increased in particular due to amended legislation in the field of social transfers. Social protection systems are well adapted to the needs of the population and provide relatively good protection, while they do not yet constitute unacceptable public financial burdens. This is also seen in the media when it is reported that Minister Drobnič, with numerous reform measures in the labour market, is the most consistent contractor of the Lisbon Strategy. A ministry run by a mag. We have committed 15% of all expenditure in the 2007 budget. The wage agreements already adopted for next year in both the private and public sectors ensure that wage growth is lagging behind productivity growth in these years and thus contributes to Slovenia's competitiveness within the euro area. Some other measures, the active ageing strategy, additional incentives for individual pension insurance, which will also contribute to improving the image of the long-term sustainability of public finances, are in preparation. As New Slovenia's Member, I advocate a European model of the socio-market economy based on personal and political freedom, economic dynamics, social cohesion and personal responsibility, and strive to ensure equal opportunities for all to create their happiness and prosperity. I am convinced that Minister Petty Officer is working in this direction, towards this end, and therefore he enjoys my support. Mag. In his role as Minister, he also played a government negotiating role in the Economic and Social Council. The role of trade unions in the current society, not only in Slovenia, is changing. Many questions about the role or representativeness of trade unions and the interest they advocate encourage public controversy and there are no answers. Those answers would, however, shed light on the negotiations of the Economic and Social Council from another point of view. With the interesting position of Nobel laureate for the economy, George Akerlof could be asked what legalities apply in the labour market in Slovenia. If the resignation of Minister Drobnik is linked to the dissatisfaction of the unions, then these questions must be answered as soon as possible. I personally believe that Slovenia today needs a stable, reliable and efficient government that will stimulate and effectively realise the energy and potential of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Finally, I would like to make just one more comment on the asbestos law of Mr Friend. I would like to say that for the first time, the asbestos law has given patients the possibility of out-of-cycle factories where workers were employed, so his claims are not in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u42	Thank you, Comrade Testen. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Allow me to begin my performance with a quote, and I hope you will quickly recognize the author as well. It goes like this: "Well, for the first time, I think it's happening that the President of the Government proposes to replace the minister, say his own words and leave. Then in the end, he says something again, and then he leaves again. Nor is there, except for the Minister proposed for replacement, any member of the Government and is the question whether this is at all in accordance with the practice followed by the National Assembly. I don't know why there's no ministers. Usually at such points, at least half the government was here. What does the absence of ministers mean? Is it that they are solidarity with the apostate, or is it simply that the ark is already falling apart so that it is not worth sitting here?" It's a quote from 5.7.2004. He spoke these words before this assembly, as recorded in the Magnetogram by John John Janša. Today, I miss the proposer of this settlement. For today we are not discussing the work and the report on the work of Minister Drobnič as much as the text proposed by the proposer to this National Assembly. And allow me to quote another question that this same speaker put in my mouth two years ago. But this is how they both, namely the President of the Government and the Minister, swore to work for the well-being of Slovenia. I ask the President of the Government, with which act he is then externally, today the Minister of Labour has done something contrary to the welfare of Slovenia. And if so, why is that not explained in the explanation? I expect the Prime Minister of the Government to recognize his words and act as he expected from another Prime Minister of the Government. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. Because in his initial explanation, the President of the Government regretted the fact that Minister Drobnič did not want to choose another route, but came to the National Assembly. I find it difficult to understand that the President of the Government regrets something that is a constitutional right and a constitutional possibility. It is not a coincidence that we have the arrangement that the National Assembly elects the President of the Government in particular and that ministers go through the hearing procedure before the National Assembly and then the appointment. That was a long discussion. And also because of perhaps a short tradition of democracy, it makes sense that the National Assembly has a greater role than it can play in any older democracy. The Prime Minister regrets that. In this regret, I can recognize not only that he is not satisfied with constitutional regulation, but also that the moves that show that he does not really understand the position of the President of the Government in this constitutional arrangement. The President is obliged to coordinate policies and to be responsible for their implementation, but this is not so important at the moment. I also share my opinion with those who say that the mistake was already the appointment of Minister Drobnič and that the discharge is recognized, but I do not know why we should assist the President of the Government in this case, but when he did not listen to any comment, not at his work, nor at the work of other ministers. I am not going to spread the debate where it would make sense to spread it, but I am going to open up an important question that I knew yesterday, that I knew nothing about, and that I could not know anything about today, as explained by the President of the Government. In the beginning, Minister Drobnic said that there were records of informal and secret meetings, very precise and determined. Pay attention, records of informal and secret meetings. Of course, the first association with secret official lists is offered. The criticism of secret official documents and the rebellion against secret official lists also prompted the collapse of the previous system. The Prime Minister of the Government played an important role in this criticism, but those secret official lists were formal. Of course, I know because I have also been in the government for some time, that there are a number of forms of work, that there are also certain meetings of such nature that require the necessary confidentiality, such as bodies dealing with the problem of national security and what else could be found, but these are formal forms of work with the necessary degree of confidentiality and secrecy. What arises as a question in the light of the discussions we have here, when will these minutes of these meetings, which can be of this, but I have no doubt, also of the parliamentarians. What's in these records? Is it possible that those meetings where the sale of business shares is decided are not misled? Some sort of meeting came across the public when Mercator's shares were sold. Are these meetings where we suspect that part of the editorial policy is being formed in the media, where directives for RTV are being developed, where they are being prepared, I will say "plonk bricks" for voting in the National Assembly, where unfortunately you have not yet told your colleagues how the holy spirit has enlightened you, that you have all surrounded virtually the same voices and claimed that you are voting in your conscience. It's probably the fruit of these secret meetings. The Slovenian public and parliamentarians are obliged to be aware of the minutes of these meetings according to your promises to work transparently to keep the accounts of the Slovenian public. From this point of view, I call on the President of the Government to bring the minutes of these meetings before the conclusion of this meeting. If any information is such that it is necessary to treat it confidentially, believe that Members know it. Many of the materials of a confidential nature were in the hands of Members in this reference and the data did not leak here, but it generally turned out to be from elsewhere. Mr President of the Government, who is proposing here and, unfortunately, you are absent, which is a kind of underestimation of the National Assembly, you are obliged to ensure that Parliament receives this data. We can also see that the frustration of any of the ministers is that he did not attend a meeting. It may be shown that the dispute we have seen between Minister Virant and Minister Drobnik is based on what record of these secret sections, where they have decided instead of him, who is responsible, who will be the Director of the Employment Office. The Slovenian public and, in particular, the parliamentarians are obliged to obtain these records. This is some kind of disclosure that tells us that the Government is working side by side, that the Government is not prepared to respond to the coalition, but even less to Parliament and even less to promise transparency of its operation. The delay caused by Minister Drobnič's actions is welcome, not so much for us, who just imagine how the Slovenian Government works, is welcome for the Slovenian public to see that this great unity, this great efficiency of Mr Janez Janša, is not based on discipline, but on obedience. The difference between discipline and obedience is, as you agree, great. Obedience requires different qualities and discipline also requires a great deal of rationality and knowledge. In short, the masks have fallen, and please introduce us to the papers where you work behind the public's back.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u44	Thank you. A colleague of Happy Friend answered the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Testen encouraged me to do this. His conduct, his work will be judged by the inhabitants, he is just trying to go home in the evening and get to work early in the morning, and his windows are darkened by such matters as he has to say here. Asbestos - asbestos is crucial that it is started to write interpretations against you, Mr. Minister. And you know it. And, look, I was talking earlier about the letter that the patients wrote, but now I'm going to read your answer, which you wrote: "We believe that the law is appropriate and appropriate and socially fair," you wrote, "the country's response to the plight of asbestos patients, who still provide them with a greater range of rights than other patients." Shameful! The country's fault is that asbestos is in the Sochi Valley. And as a result, given the long latent age, it is up to you today to undo these consequences. And you laugh at those patients who are dying. And the fact that the Member of Parliament, my colleague, spoke like this may also be due to the fact that he did nothing when he was employed in Salonit at the time, but could. And, look, it's a shame that you're giving Gypsies 170 thousand dollars a month today, the mother of a single woman 7 thousand, and it's even more embarrassing that you laugh at the dying when they come to ask you for justice. It's a shame, kind of! Therefore, if you believe in your almighty one, you will ever answer there; you will grow weary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u46	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! Now two other ministers and a few co-workers have joined you. I myself have been in a serious dilemma about how to respond to the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Government on the discharge of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, particularly because I could say that this is a matter of coalition, of those who have elected the Prime Minister of the Government and of those who have chosen the ministers we have today. In my opinion, it would be irresponsible to do so, irresponsibly, because we agree with the assessment of the ministry or the ministry over the past two years, so I will also vote in favour of the Prime Minister's proposal that the Minister be dismissed, as did the Social Democrats' Group of Members. After yesterday's coalition summit, we heard that there was another change planned in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, three, four ministers. Given that this will now become a practice and we will probably discuss each month what the departure and arrival of the new minister would probably also be, given the responsibility of making it more reasonable for the President of the Government to check the confidence of his cabinet in this National Assembly in a way that, if he has this confidence, he can also propose new ministers and thank himself so far, at least for some cooperation. In this way, we would have gained a lot in time, at a time when Slovenia needs a good government when Slovenia is preparing to lead the European Union, and I think that this move would be one of the better, although I am not sure that Slovenia would not have the best early elections, but that is why a decision is needed elsewhere, perhaps at secret meetings whose records you are keeping, and we do not know about them, and I am joining my colleague Školč to see these records. I have served two mandates in the Commission on Security Intelligence, and I have not heard such a thing, what I have heard here today in Parliament, that the Government is working in parallel, that the Government is operating in public and that it is operating in secret. I also wonder: What are the conclusions of these secret talks that are probably taking place with the President of the Government, Mr. Janez Janša? In recent months there have been campaigns for councillors and mayors in municipalities, and at least in the municipality from which I come, the current mayor, Mr Srečko Meh, has been appointed several times in the role of the one who is guilty of having unemployed in Velenj, who is guilty of having young people who do not get a first job. And I think that today is the right time to talk about those who run the policy on the basis of which we have the unemployed, whether they are younger, that is, the first job seekers or the older ones, who also do not get the job because they answer that they are too old to hire them. We are talking about statistics, about reducing unemployment, there are fewer and fewer unemployed people, and there are more and more unemployed people, I would add. And I do not agree with this claim that all those who are at the Employment Institute are not talking about those who are removed from the register and are formally not unemployed, but have no job that these are people who do not want to work, that they are people who only want social assistance, that they are people who want to live at the expense of others. Many are likely trying to gain employment. That's why a lot of people go door-to-door, and they don't get those jobs. There is a labour union in the Social Democrats, which specifically monitors the activities of ministries in the field of social, employment and health. Together with other colleagues, we have drafted a law on employee participation in the profits and internal ownership of employees. And when we first put him in the procedure, the answer was that the government was preparing its own better. At that time, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Policy, Mr Janez Drobnic, was responsible. The next time we filed it, the result was the same. When I asked a time ago how far away the Government was with the preparation of this law, I referred the question again to the Ministry of Labour, and this had withdrawn it to the Ministry of the Economy, because now the Ministry of Economy is the one who should prepare the answer. I got the answer that the marriage is getting ready. So, nothing from nothing. January will be quite a month for the Social Democrats' Group to re- table the law. We have predicted that we will invest it for so long that this area, i.e. the participation of workers - employees in profit - will also actually be settled. And as I said, if I was in a dilemma days ago, or the information that the Prime Minister of the Government had already proposed, since February, the discharge of the Minister or the consideration that Nova Slovenija is proposing, because they divided these feuds, that Nova Slovenija proposed a new minister, is now publicly known, it is clear that this was the month of February. From February to December, the President, although he did not agree with the Minister's work, tolerated this. Thus, the President of the Government is primarily responsible for what has been happening in Slovenia in the past months in the field of social, work, family and more. When the trade unions staged a public protest, they were told that it would be good for them to wait for a better time. How, then, should the Minister, when he hears the Prime Minister's statement, what he thinks about union protests and the role of trade unions, how should the Minister react differently than he did, that is, unwillingness to engage in social dialogue, unwillingness to listen to social partners and understanding social dialogue in a way that is called trade unions, you know, if you are not cooperative, and I will represent the workers. In this case, it would be best if he represented employers, but I am interested in how he would coordinate with himself. I think this would be the most difficult coordination, much harder than it is now in the economic and social world. And a while ago, I also asked the question because I was informed in the office in Slovenj Gradc that the problems with building a home for the protection of adults were that there was a call, that four concessionaires were selected and the chancellor decided to grant this concession to the people behind Karitas. I have seriously thought about proposing that we establish a similar group in Velenje, and in this way we may just "get" a home for the protection of adults. We get, of course, in the notes. [[...]] [[It's a poor sound.]] Mr Koren, calm down, there will be a time for discussion, you will be able to speak, no one will reach out to you, not me in particular. [[...]] Presidents, and I suggest you calm down, comrade from Schostani. Are you finished, Mr. Koren? No, no, I don't doubt it would have been Karitas. I say we could set up one institution for which Karitas would stand, and then we could get a home for the protection of adults. The fact that you don't organize Karitas in the Shale Valley is almost impossible. And it's right, because he's doing his job, as he's supposed to do, and he's helping people, but besides Karitas, we also have the Red Cross, and there's someone else who's doing these things. In view of the fact that I have also listened to the proposals of the amendments at the previous extraordinary meeting in the budget debate, how you will pave the way for all the roads leading to the places from which you come from the coalition Members, at that moment I firmly decided that none of the ministers in the field of labour, social, family policy, whether the minister or candidate, will be in favour or will not receive my support, regardless of which party he comes from, until he has an adult protection home in Velenj. This is now a picture of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. Everyone takes care of the place where it comes from. And it's probably going to be a practice. And lastly, let me say that I protested at the time of the adoption of the law, which took the funds of the Union of Fighters of Slovenia. That's also an additional reason to tell you, Minister, it's time for you to leave. I, for the solution that was proposed at the time and also accepted that the minister who sets the criteria for how much a veteran organisation will receive, do not agree. And that's just another reason why I'm going to press the button today when we decide to dismiss the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, you. Comrade Grill, do you have a wish for correction?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u49	I repeat, namely, the implementation of Mr Kumer. In his debate, he called me a liar, and I expect him to apologize too, because here he has a review of the amendments that were adopted on the working body and this text was fully adopted in the National Assembly, not only 7, I said that there were at least 7, here I see them quickly, that there were at least 9, where the co-proposers were also Social Democrats or were the only applicants. That's why I'm expecting this apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your notice. As a rule, I don't put a replica on the replica. Comrade Kumer, I ask only for a statement and then we proceed with the debate. Peace in the hall. Comrade Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your word. I'm not going to apologize. Six amendments were proposed on the working body and two were adopted. In the second reading in the National Assembly, 8 and none were accepted. In the third reading three and none would have been accepted. This is the law, but if you're looking at any other marriage, look at it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u52	Thank you both. Each Member or Member shall have the opportunity to look at the records of the working bodies and the National Assembly and to apologize on its own. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Parliamentary colleague Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Your Honourable Minister! I'll probably be the only one besides your six holy warriors to wish you something beautiful for today: Carpe diem, your last day. Believe me, I and 80% of Slovenians, including workers, students, asbestos patients, single mothers and others, will use it by the end of this day. There's no greater happiness than that you'll be gone. That's what I have to tell you. With regard to the criticisms you have received, I must tell you that I believe they have been repeated so many times and so many times that even you have understood them. I believe there were so many of them that you understood them. Today's debate is just proof that we were back on track in the Slovenian National Party or on the right path, on the way that we wanted to remove you. I also believe in all those who are today to remove the Minister, that even if today was the subject of interpretation against this Minister, because there is never a duality with you, except when you talk about the Minister, how he was not good, like the President of the Government, while you support what the magnetograms, his laws, his proposals prove. Just an example, the Unemployment Insurance Act. Mr. Grill, [[he's not here.]] "we salute the law, the law is harmonised, [[Although the law was not harmonised]] We'll back him up" and so on. That's enough. We were talking yesterday about the government's influence on television. I think it was the Minister who wanted to have the most influence on the TV program, with his famous strategy, which was created so overnight, that you were probably thinking at night about the birth of someone or something when you wrote that from now on we would only be looking at the beautiful reality of life, which is also not so beautiful in this country because of you. But I'm talking about reality and coherence. Dear Mr Capuder, I must tell you, I do not know who you have aligned the laws with and who you consider to be social partners, if you mean the Church here, then I believe that you have been harmonised, but if you think of the social partners as envisaged by the Constitution and the law, you have deceived this National Assembly. But I believe in the Church that you were zero in every marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Your performance has triggered a replica. Comrade Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. For the first time, I have heard that the Constitution and the law speak of the need for the social partners to coordinate with each other, especially the fact that the Constitution writes this. As far as consistency is concerned. The data were collected from the Ministry of Labour and Family portal and it says that the 28 acts adopted over the last two years have been harmonised with the exception of three, and the three of us have not been harmonised in one point. This is information from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs portal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, the public is warmly greeted! Today, I have a minister for work, family and social affairs at the Pranger. Perhaps it would be possible to replicate or say earlier that just how the coalition affects the media is not the invention of Minister Drobnič, but it is within the family area of the coalition treaty. I will read just one sentence: The Coalition will strive to create a positive attitude towards the family through political attitudes towards parents and families and through media information. A positive relationship, we don't want anything else in the coalition. Today we are talking about Minister Drobnič, the minister with the widest portfolio, 200 billion, I think he also covers this ministry of money. It has the widest area of work, the most coordination of social partners, legislation and, according to Finance, the last reformist of this government. These reforms actually reminded us of the Finances two days ago, which we forgot, even though the previous years were full of mouths. There's supposed to be 70 measures. However, I have the feeling that only our two ministers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are implementing these measures. And if we read at the end of this article, he was even praised by the Minister of Labour or Slovenia in the area covered by Minister Drobnič. Also in these days, the second minister received recognition as a senior minister. I wonder if it is a coincidence that only abroad do our ministers receive recognition or perhaps taxes and reforms do not belong to the Slovenian people. With regard to social dialogue, we have a report from the Ministry that as many as 28 regulations have been harmonised with the social partners. With regard to problems in negotiating with social partners or measures or achievements, employers do have problems with trade unions and this writer says this text: "Instead of calling on union leaders, headed by Semolič, Janša decided to remove his main reformist from the government at a meeting with trade unions on behalf of faster economic development. Well, so much for unions or this problem. Otherwise, the name of Minister Drobnič was hanging in the air, so to speak, all the time in the government. And in this sense, we were surprised that the Prime Minister himself had made this move, because some day earlier the opposition had announced a successful interpretation, so perhaps we were surprised about it. What actually brought the Prime Minister a drop over the edge? Was that really a fertility strategy? A strategy that could be dealt with if it is not yet dealt with, the whole of Europe. The whole of Europe is dealing with the issue of fertility and the problem of ageing. By the way, thank you Minister for the 175 million we have provided for the home of the elderly in Trebnje in the budget for the second year. Indeed, who would deal with the birth of children, the creatures that demand love that cost you, that destroy your career, and so on. Indeed, there are more topical issues for Slovenia, such as the resolution on national programmes, which talk about mega-fun parks, shopping centres, industrial zones, university centres. And it's about the big sums of money, and no one's gonna get a headache from where we're gonna get it. At this very moment, you are coming with such a backward birth strategy for Slovenia. Slovenia would still swallow this fertility strategy, but if we really didn't get into one article, and you really stepped on thin ice, about the payout of abortion. Here I acknowledge to the President of the Government that you are interfering with another area, and this is really not your area, this is the area of the social treasury, the health treasury and the Minister of Health, if this is to be regulated. Indeed, we also have written in the Coalition Treaty that more emphasis should be given to families in the first homes for families to decide for the first child, I say. But it's not your area either, so don't push into things that aren't from your area. However, you were the first minister to notice in the Law on Parental Allowance that they had fallen out in previous laws of peasants and self-employed. Where were the unions, the farmers unions and so on, that they did not know that there were also mothers in Slovenia who did not have this right to a shorter working day. Certainly, your legislation favored mothers, young families and others as well, but given where this train leads, that they are reopened on Sundays, that officials will also be working on Saturdays, and I do not think that it is the most favourable thing for mothers and young families. However, you will be suspended today, not by my vote, but I do not think that you are suspended because of unemployment, but mainly because of the disagreement between you and the Prime Minister, so I do not welcome this discharge; but the Prime Minister has every right to propose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u58	Thank you, too. Procedural proposal, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to explain first, and in the end, I will come up with a procedural proposal. Especially because Members of New Slovenia, including the Member of Parliament, are misled. Apparently, false, unrealistic data by the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has such information, which is unfortunately published by the Minister on his website. You know, there was no sync. In the National Assembly, we discussed proposals for laws that were not harmonised. And that's simply a lie, your esteemed colleague Uhanov. I mentioned the amendment of the Law on Social Protection, the Law on Minimum Wage, Collective Contract, Pension and Disability Insurance, the Proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, I mentioned the Law on the establishment of Minimum Wage, the amendment of the Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance - these are laws that were not harmonised in Parliament. And to say that the ministry has such information on its website is simply a lie! By this you lie in this House and deceive the entire Slovenian public. Therefore, in fact, I propose, Mr President, that Members and Members who are not aware of the reality gain the opinion that I hold in hand. This is the opinion of the Social Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in my opinion, is still one of the key actors or institutions in this country that provides reliable data. It is clear and clear from this opinion that the laws have been inconsistent, that the 2008 budget, which cuts social protection funds, is also uncoordinated. I ask - and this is also my procedural proposal - to get this opinion. If you want, I'll copy it for you. And from this opinion, the opinion of the Social Chamber shows how it degrades the respected Minister Drobnič - but I do not know if he deserves the word "respected" - how he degrades the entire social profession, how he degrades or destroys what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenia is a social state. And last but not least, with this opinion, my distinguished colleague, allow me, even this is part of my procedural proposal, it is clearly and loudly stated that this minister has received three constitutional complaints to his laws in two years of ministry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u60	Ambassador Žgajner, I think you are in your content, and if you finish, of course you have exceeded the procedural proposal. Your call can, of course, be considered that Members obtain all information, but of course their domain is where they get them and what information. That is why I will also give the floor to Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go, like a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'd ask, Vice President, if you'd calm down your emissary to stop these lies. 28 regulations have been harmonised. Perhaps the Member speaks of which other regulations. All those whom the law imposes upon them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u62	Good. Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Spending. [[She's not here.]] My colleague, Milan M. Cwickle, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, I hope, at least, in the transfer with us of the related President of the Government, who has come to convince us that Minister Drobnic is not working well! You want me to say that today we are really discussing the release of John. What I don't know, I don't know which John we're talking about. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša, has issued a framework for economic and social reforms. In February 2005, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, said that his first objective was to increase fertility. A year and a half later, we have the abolition of housing allowances for young people and all families and have nothing to do with the realization of fertility. I do not go into this and oppose some of the ideas of another Janez Drobnič on how to increase fertility in Slovenia. However, the dilemma that we should be talking about today is that we are actually talking about inadequate governance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where Mr Janez is the first to be responsible, and Mr Janez Drobnič may have taken his work too seriously. In the last year and a half, two years, and a year and a half, the Government sends us laws, we have adopted many uncoordinated laws that are not aligned with the social partners and, as we also see, are substantively uncoordinated within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So what are we talking about? Are we talking, therefore, about the laws we have adopted in this National Assembly, which have the signature of the Prime Minister Janez Janš, actually coming to the National Assembly, despite his knowledge, how is it that Mr President, with what he has told us today, in fact, says, nine months ago I have expressed my distrust of Mr. Janez, and that Mr. Janez has just carried on a government meeting run by another John, the laws and laws adopted by the Government and then intervened in the National Assembly? That is why I think it would be good to conclude this tragic debate today as soon as possible and to say no to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. In the coalition, agree on how you will manage this Slovenia better. To say that a few more ministers need to be replaced to make it easier for them to preside over the European Union, but of course it is for the Slovenian people, citizens and citizens of insults. For three and a half years we have a government that can't manage Slovenia, three and a half years we will have a government that can't manage Slovenia, six and a half years, and we must have an effective government for that half year. Therefore, according to Members of the New Slovenia, the President of the Government said he would change several more ministers. The real question we are talking about here is the inappropriate conduct of the first John. That is why, of course, Mr John II, I think that you are by your own sacrifice and that the coalition in the way it works should look at itself to discuss the content of the laws before they are adopted by the Government and, above all, to stop spending taxpayers' money. This cost 700 million dollars for a framework of reforms, none of which, except that two years after the start of Janez Janš's mandate, we find that there is nothing left of the reforms and all we have is public laundry. Thank you very much. After the end of the discussion, I will decide how to show my distrust to the President of the Government, but of course I oppose the kind of laws and activities carried out by Mr Janez Drobnič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u64	Thank you, too. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister Drobnic, Minister Bozič, other representatives, State secretaries, Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Today is actually one of the tougher days in the coalition, when we are actually washing public laundry by the coalition, which I believe should happen within the coalition. It is even more difficult because it is done with one of the coalition partners, who was already in the previous term when we were in opposition, a coalition partner. And it's even harder when they did this with one who is now a minister, but before that he was one of the most prominent opposition members and an acquaintance of this area. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot of things that bother me in this government. I am particularly disturbed by the part of the work of our ministers that we voted for, which is significantly different from our positions of principle or definitions when we were in opposition. Above all, what bothers me is that some things are taken against what has given us the confidence of the electorate and the electorate. As difficult as it is and my President has a difficult and responsible work in such a diverse coalition, so it is difficult in all areas, also between us Members within the parliamentary groups. But that's color, that's plurality, and here we are, who got the confidence of the electorate and the electorate. It is often difficult within small organized groups, and it is difficult within what is also called the law. However, if possible, it is tried inside, not outside, in front of a neighbor. However, if not possible, then agree where there is sufficient agreement or where there is sufficient wisdom, agree on an agreement and continue to care for some of the values that they have created together. That's how you would imagine working in a coalition. Mr Drobnič, a number of things are obvious and seem to have been going on for nine months now, except that I have read in Mago since 7 June this year, "Summer Cleaning", something I did not really know as a coalition Member about major differences and problems, even though I was also a member of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee last year. That I did not know, it was probably also based on the laws in question, precisely from this Ministry's title, because, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Slovenia's Group of Members of Parliament, Mr Ljubeljšek said that we would support the proposed amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Working with asbestos. On behalf of the parliamentary group, my fellow Member, Mr Pojbič, said that we would support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management and that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we believe that the proposal for a law is qualitatively ready and also Europeanly comparable. My fellow Member, Rudy Veršnik, had the same position with regard to the Law on Minimum Wage. I myself, on behalf of the parliamentary group, on second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, commended the Government and said that we have finally received the Government which has done something in this area and the Minister who has done in my deep conviction more than all others in the last ten years. And other colleagues in other legislation in this area have spoken positively, and I will never, I will say, sharpened in any way to indicate that Minister Drobnik's work is so bad. The President of the Government is the most responsible and, of course, his right to propose to the National Assembly a replacement if he is not satisfied with one of the ministers. It is true, however, that it is our right, Members and Members to know his purpose and to discuss his intentions within the coalition. How and how much it was in this case, given everything else, is of course our inner thing and I will not explain it to you. Today, when the opposition says that there are many wrong solutions in this legislation, he is right. Since I was alone for eight years in opposition and with a number of laws, I disagreed with a number of solutions, so we went to the Constitutional Court and some decisions of the Constitutional Court and then had to be changed by the coalition. Everything and always. Whenever we have done something like this, at least I have always worked alone to make legislation a better and better solution for citizens and citizens. However, I am a little less convinced by those who say today that the Minister is suitable for firing because he has angered everyone in turn because of the strategy for raising fertility in the Republic of Slovenia. It's not a strategy. That's not true. This is one piece of paper that some people wrote something on. And this is just a public debate. What will be the strategy, what will this National Assembly say? Of course, with a large majority, with the probability of a coalition that has a majority. If it weren't for the coalition, it would be the opposition. And only then will this be a strategy. So far, it's just a piece of paper that some people have written something on. If anyone has read it, I believe that he will agree with me, that in 80% or even more, almost all of the present Members and Members, both left and right, from the position and opposition, probably sign it. I believe that no one is opposed to reducing payment for kindergartens or to adding to the allowance for maternity leave, which is in a younger period. Or that you do not mind lowering the costs of transport to school, which I am warning you as a Member of Parliament for the past ten years, both all previous governments and now ours. And then nothing happened, and we haven't even solved these issues yet. It is true that I say something in defense of our government that nothing can be done in two years. That you don't mind equating the regional conditions for children's education costs. Also for teachers' education and even if you want voluntary firefighters, there are worse situations for those in the countryside on the periphery because they have to come to Ljubljana because they have such and different costs. But the numbers are all the same. And the calls made under the previous government, and even now, when 20% of all congregations are doing the same thing, it is unfair because no one has ever complied with the law on the financing of municipalities, the work he was talking about dividing and the various shares in co-financing, except in the school area. That you probably have nothing to do with some of the other matters that are enshrined in this resolution, there are many, I believe, and you agree. But that you do and I don't understand and understand the payment of abortion as it was presented to the public, because I absolutely advocate the decision of women as the first to decide, but of course, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I defend and defend life before death. But this is always, of course, in a socially acceptable way. And it is important to be aware that not our children are the greatest wealth, but also the only guarantee for the development of this society, this country and our social security when others fill the pension register, when others fill the health treasury and so on. If we don't have children behind us, then our lives will be very miserable. In view of everything, and given that I want to remain primarily honest with myself and with the electorates and voters who have entrusted me with the voice, given that I cannot turn from one night to the other and be someone else, but the one I am, my vote for the Prime Minister's proposal for the first time, this is probably the first time in 10 years, it will not get and I will not support the discharge of Minister Drobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u66	Thank you. We continue the debate. My friend Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Nice to meet you! I will not be particularly indebted in the performance, but I have no intention of singing any kind of praise or presenting myself as an altar to the Minister in the discharge, as some fellow members of the opposition have done. However, at the starting point, I claim one better gift, a better opportunity, a respected opposition, a position or this time the Government could not give you at the turn in the second part of the mandate. And of course you have to, and you'll take advantage of it. You're the opposition. Notwithstanding the fact that I sometimes find positions more difficult to understand because of some views, I say that the more unwise this coalition and this government could not deal with this issue, which is today in question, than it has done. And I'm so sorry this could happen. This is politically not wise anywhere in the world or in Europe. I also know that Minister Petty Officer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u68	My friend Brenčič, allow me to jump in. I'm asking the government representative to stop the phone immediately. If that happens again, I'll be forced to remove you from the hall. I don't believe you'll be able to afford this at government meetings or ministerial meetings, and you won't even be able to afford it in the National Assembly. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. It is also clear to me that, despite the fact that the Minister, who runs a certain department, is autonomous under our Government Act and that he is independently designing and creating a policy to resolve such or other social issues, pleasant or unpleasant. However, in this context, I will not stop for long, I say, if the Prime Minister has set his name, his throne, his view of this government, these coalitions into some systemic reform, which we have called the economic social reform, he should also give his influence in some segments, his back for this purpose, in particular in an area where there is an extremely sensitive area for the daily life of a small and large man. This is the area of social, labour and administrative. Here I think the minister may have been overly self-sufficient or lonely about this issue, and I will not stop here again. Nor will I stop at the question of the procedural procedure and my understanding of how we should act in this process in the discharge of the Minister. However, since I cannot move from my mandate to my mandate, I would like to say this. In all the past years, I have been running for 11 years, which I have been working on a committee that is the parent working body for this area, headed by Minister Drobnič, on the basis of my understanding of things with a few more farmers of self-mandatory logic, things that were good for people and for this country, starting with the portfolio led by the then Minister of Mags. Robbery and so forth with Dr. Dimovski. I say that we have set a lot of things right, and we have done a lot of good solutions. Everything we had set up, everything that dictated life, could not be done as it is today. On the one hand, there are the capabilities of the State, on the other hand there is a fact that is present in the social structure. We have virtually individual groups among ourselves, which we are diametrically opposed to each other, and in this context it is sometimes not without the Minister knowing that this social issue for his vision must be resolved in such a way, it is impossible to pass this rubikon in a hard way; and this has not been done before and is not now possible. We are natural free beings, and we must be aware of that. And that is why I say that I cannot deny my thinking and my contribution in the previous two mandates in this area, which is extremely sensitive to matter affecting people's daily lives, I cannot deny my contribution because I am now in the second coalition, which may be addressing certain social issues that need to be resolved in a slightly different way, but we cannot now do otherwise than within the limits of the real capacity not to cause trauma in society. In this context, of course, my view of Minister Drobnič is different. Already in the title of the opposition Member - even then I was led by a committee, for which sometimes it is necessary to be stubborn, but otherwise things do not go forward - was the character of the opposition MP on behalf of the Mag. The trifle was even fine, but at that time he had asked impossible questions, impossible proposals that could not be resolved. But later, when it was necessary to defend it more strongly, he usually always withdrew, and I warned him quite often that the time would come when it might be necessary to think differently, and this time he came and expected Mr Drobnič to revise his system somewhat. A man has this character and this inner vision and machine that you bring into the world, something can be readied with reason; and I expected him to revise it a little bit, and unfortunately he's not enough. That is why I, in the coalition, may have been more difficult to understand at times, but why I do not report to certain decisions, I do not approve of them, and I knew that I would have to perform a lot harder sometimes. That is why I cannot, like some opposition MPs, sing a kind of song or commit an innocuous act to Minister Petnik. The Minister is the one who is responsible for designing the portfolio, who is obliged to formulate the policy that the company currently expects, and must plan it in accordance with the capacity of the State to do so. However, if matters do not go well, then it is a matter of police logic that some of the difficult issues that need to be resolved are identified by the coalition on these issues. This is a way of some dialogue, correctness in the partnership understanding of the coalition. The main thing is, of course, with Minister Petty Officer, that he is no matter how busy he is and that he has brought many good things into his projects, in changes to the law, etc., but dialogue needs to be conducted. This is a resort, it remains practically a challenge for the country to take care of the social state in the whole sense, when it makes its profits, when it does its own business, when it makes its globalisation, is this resort to dialogue, the resort to sleep the night the dialogue stops and starts again. There's no other way. Where dialogue cannot be reached, it is also necessary to move forward; even if certain things cannot be resolved at this time, time will bring it back to the second year or the next year. Of course, that's the criticism that Minister Petty Officer has with his character an improper profile of a man for this field. I'm not accusing him of anything, but I do know that maybe some other department, depending on its work, or another case, would do better. Even in the field of disability, because it is also professionally home, some things have gone well and are taking place and there may be the worst but most necessary dialogue. But this thing worked out better for him. It is clear, however, that dialogue with the social partners and also dialogue with the members of the National Assembly, regardless of the position, the opposition, is urgently needed and must be conducted if you cannot lead it. If you're not ready to run it, then you have to figure out for yourself that this is not for you. I will say, in the previous term, we have been in various positions of the opposition's over-amendment - I remember a member of the committee, Visionary, precisely because he was able to conduct more dialogue - we have won and won good solutions, including such good solutions, some with a new view to this issue being resolved in this mandate. I'm not happy with it either, but I accept it as a policy. Therefore, despite your understanding, the opposition that this time you have the gift of shooting at the throne, which is perfectly normal. For me, given that I know this matter as much as I do, I follow it through my understanding of the matter, Minister Drobnič really is not the right choice for this difficult resort, not as Janez Drobnič, but perhaps the way of the character or way of the structure of man as given to him by creation. I am convinced that it would be wiser to make a different decision at the level of the Government to engage in dialogue, to make a better solution for this city to be occupied by a man who is a different profile by nature. The present Minister Drobnič would, according to his duties, perhaps do something else significantly better or do something well. My support to Minister Petty Officer will certainly not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. I myself would touch on today's topic in the sense that the fact that Minister Drobnič seems to want to carry out reforms in a consistent manner is indeed present, forgetting the content of that step or proposal that you are preparing in the departmental ministry. It's something like jumping into an empty pool. To justify these uncritical steps to implement reforms, I would like to present only the area of social work centres, where a proposal for the transformation of social work centres has been made from 62 to 14. It is said that there were 14 provinces in Slovenia once, and it was simplified how these 62 centers were to be transformed into 14. The differences are extremely large. If I said, for example, that one of these 14 centers would care for 47,000 people, and this one has the least, the largest would have over 500,000 inhabitants. Of course, it is difficult for me to imagine that this would provide effective solutions for reform in the field of social work centres, but concerns or problems would remain largely in environments where these centres would probably be overburdened, at least where more than 500,000 people are. And if we also find that this reform foresees a loss of legal status and thus the possibility of some more intensive integration into the environment where such a centre works, it means increasing social differences, increasing the inability to resolve family pressures and all the same. In short, I will try to highlight only a question that has been raised extremely recently as one of the biggest problems in Slovenia, but again completely unnecessary. It is a fact that in this regional centre, where we are talking about 531,408 inhabitants, there is also the Centre for Social Work of Kočevje. In view of the fact that they are already paying 526 social assistance to Roma living in this municipality, we are faced with the fact that the Government is trying to get us through all the ways and approaches that are normal to include someone in the local environment, to create even more problems in this area, although we have done a lot with the social work centre when we formed a joint Roma commission and tried actively to solve the problem of Roma inclusion in normal life; we are talking about number 526. And if I add to this the fact that the Ministry should also follow these procedures and understand the environment where this family is supposed to move, I find that in the Government or in this very department they obviously do not know the situation in individual centres for social work or do not want to be involved in solving the most recent problems in Slovenia. I therefore strongly protest this understanding of problem solving, because I do not imagine that the Centre for Social Work would lose its powers on the one hand, and on the other hand the Government is imposing additional problems on this environment, in particular I can say. Here I really miss the minister's more active role in not proposing such an unspecified change in the functioning of social work centres and actually addressing the nomadic area as where the centre should be kept as such, for social work with legal status and even greater tasks and powers than it has so far. Unfortunately, Minister Drobnic is unable to achieve this, is unable to implement it and in fact makes the social situation in this environment worse. It is therefore difficult to talk about the possibility of agreeing with such a policy of the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs, and of course it is also difficult to provide support then on whether to decide whether the Minister will remain or not. Based on these arguments, it is extremely difficult to be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u72	Thank you. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I will remain with what I have said more or less in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, in those facts which are written in black on white and which say that Mr Janez Drobnič's work at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was unprofessional, poor, even harmful. With the establishment of political will, Minister Drobnič, with the support of the coalition, has declared the educational profile of the theologian in the field of social protection, one of the most difficult forms of disqualification of professional work in the field of social protection and a pure ideological farce. The first fact that I am stressing now. I'm on it. There was no coordination with the institutions. I am talking about the preparation of a financial basis for the implementation of social protection programmes. However, funding for organisations involves the will of the Ministry and even a reduction of the budget without adequate justification. With regard to the draft state budget, as I have already stressed today, social protection is a unilateral act. Ignorance of the Council of Experts, which is referred to as the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on a proposal from the Social Chamber. To address strategic issues, it was a constant disregard for this professional council. Eminent experts from the Social Chamber and experienced practices were proposed in this expert council. Among them is the Dean of the Faculty of Social Work and the President of UNICEF. Five of these proposed experts have been deleted as inadequate and a candidate has been appointed to their post with a basic education of theological direction, which is well funded by the competent Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the institution running it. This is an absurd case, respected colleagues and colleagues, involving politics in the profession. Once again, one of the most important ministries. As a result, there has also been a neglect of professional opinions and poor preparation of documents. One such document is the Strategy for Raising Fertility in the Republic of Slovenia. I am sorry that Mr Puksic is not at this time, because I would like to see what is written on the document he issued and published on the website by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Drobnic. This is about, once again, the Strategy for Raising Fertility in the Republic of Slovenia. It's an extremely humiliating, conservative, backward, damaging document. A document that was made within two months. This is what I received from the director of the Directorate at this Ministry. And it not only destroys acquired rights, it takes dignity, the dignity of women. This document catalyses solutions that are expected to provide a stable pension system in our country in the long term, so that women will literally be forced to do so, especially women of lower social status, in order to give birth to children so that we can or will be able to pay in the pension system as compensation for unwanted children. And Minister Drobnič sees fostering or adoption, promoted by Minister Drobnič in such a document. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a completely unprofessional decision, contrary to all the insights that we can finally be proud of in our country in 2006. We're not talking about 1928. I read to you that the ideology of 1928 was written into the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment, which we adopted in 2006. I don't know who in this country is so moral that I hope to say with all that the work of Minister Drobnič has been professionally, well; and even, thank you, Minister. And don't make fun of him, respectable colleagues and colleagues! And when we're talking about harmonisation of laws, let me write down, let me prove it, I can prove to you black and white that the laws were inconsistent. Today, the laws were inconsistent. Today, I have listed several of them, which are those laws that were inconsistent with the social partners. I therefore stress once again that the social dialogue under Mr Drobnic's ministry in our country is collapsing. The concept of a social state is collapsing. I do not want such a modern social state as Minister Drobnič imagines, which you obviously support or have supported for at least two years, including you, the coalition Members, and which is still being tormented by Members of New Slovenia today. Allow me not to be too long, because I believe I will get a replica just for a moment to explain whether such a minister really deserves the function he has. The Minister's opinion on disabled people is not the best. And I'll read, quote Mr. Petty Officer's words. It considers that people with disabilities need not pay special attention, but simply integrate them, and their problem will be solved in a hypnotic way. The poor attitude was also negative for single - parent families, the mother with only one child and so on. I will certainly support the discharge of Minister Drobnic because he does not deserve such a function.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u74	Thank you. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u75	Mrs. Tavsheva, there will be no replica, it's not worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u76	Such a strange replica. Do you have a suggestion? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask you that, given that we have recently often faced some specific measures that are being taken in this way, but for others, in the same Rules of Procedure, we would ask for equal treatment of all. Several times in the National Assembly, there was a time to ask a procedural question or a proposal from the time of the joint group of Members, and despite the intervention, there was no difference. It has now been settled in such a way that the procedural issue has been eliminated by agreement and time has been cleared. I am not protesting that Mrs. Žgajner is now allowed to do so. I just expect you to do that in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Yellen. Mr. Gantar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Drobnic, with your work, I must admit, I am not satisfied and, of course, even if the proposal of the President of the Government for a discharge had not come to light, this interpretation, which the SNS has announced, was either another one, and I would be happy to sign it. I am not satisfied with your work in particular because, like the President of the Government, I would feel that you are not fulfilling your government programme in your field, but quite the opposite, precisely because you are consistently fulfilling it. In fact, you're one of the few and only ones who've tried to do anything in this area. There is no doubt about it, and I think it is true that Minister Drobnič has dealt with the real issues in the field of employment, social and other policies in his field. However, he went on them in a fundamentally wrong way, with the wrong means, by trying to discredit and prevent actors in the field of social dialogue rather than negotiate. But the worst part is that all of these topics have been wrapped up and framed and connected with some pre-modern, conservative, traditionalistic ideology, but today I don't want to talk about it more than that. I don't want to criticize you, because it's not in my habit, and I believe that in the custom of a lot of us here, to actually get on the "fallen" angel, the minister that the Prime Minister has already brought down. Figuratively speaking, Mr. Petty Officer, I'm not going after you because I don't think that's appropriate right now. And by chance or by no means, just today, this Friday takes two years, since this new government has been elected, and somehow this solution is actually an opportunity to balance this government and this balance sheet that you have here, Minister Drobnič, is a bad one. I will not talk about the reforms that have been announced with the pump, but they have not come true, and I will not talk about the tax reform that is supposed to relieve the economy, it has only brought more money to the richer. I'm not going to talk about people being forced to move in, that lice guards are controlling police cars, and that cops are not beating the shit out of me. If someone had said two years ago that this would happen, I - the sworn critic of this government - would not have believed it. I think there's some hyper-realism, some surreality, and when I read the newspapers, I have to ask myself first and say, "Well, that can't be true"; it is. And that's what worries me, that's what we should be talking about today. How will I vote, Minister Petty Officer, I don't know yet. You're not my favorite, but those who serve you after your political life have more butter on their heads. I'm sure I'll make up my mind after the debate, one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The adopted laws of the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are reform positive and long-term or long-term good for the development of Slovenia and its effectiveness and social order. Without a doubt, when they were adopted, the Minister was professional and sufficient, and I think as much as possible, even harmonised. The area of work is extremely exposed and in any event subject to critical responses to all changes, which are usually unpopular for individuals, groups and areas in the short term, but necessary if we are to achieve a long-term development breakthrough, the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy and responsible social, cultural policy, higher quality of life of individuals and fair protection and assistance to vulnerable groups. In the operational sense and in the way of communication and coordination, matters have not always been encouraging and appropriate. There was a lack of balanced policy and sense for all the circumstances that the Minister must take into account in such an important area. Therefore, it was not appropriate for him to expose himself, his department, coalition and the whole government and the public with his moral and ethical views. All key issues should be addressed first at the professional level, comprehensively and interdisciplinaryly, interdisciplinaryly and without its previous judgments and concrete operational solutions in the strategies themselves. More tolerance, diplomacy, coherence and balance are needed with others. It is necessary to weigh between possible and possible, to understand and respect the whole. The bottom of the barrel came out of the barrel with a fertility strategy. Despite the fact that the proposal alone resulted in one of its non-strategic measures regarding the payment of abortions following its ministerial moral judgment, it is incredibly public, media and snowball effect, which threatened to connect with the whole Government, which the media and the opposition are skillfully exploiting. Just as the beach was launched because of the Romani family Strojan, which was offered police protection at their illegal residence or resettlement elsewhere. When one of the members of this family was likely to have beaten a citizen to death, he triggered a self - defense reaction from the neighborhood, both because of criminal and violent conduct, and because of the ten - year inefficiency of the competent, even a revolt known to all. Today, no one knows or writes that the Strojans have decided on two solutions, as I said, to stay and protect them from the neighborhood's reaction, or to move elsewhere. And the reason for the self-defense reaction was the serious injury of the so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called so - called The President of the Government shall have the right and duty to provide that, in the absence of mutual agreement on the continuation of cooperation with the Minister, when he himself is not willing to leave the post to another, despite the warning of the assessment of the Prime Minister's work, after the frequency of inconsistencies and after work with a lack of sensitivity and with an inadequate political feeling, with a lack of a full view of the whole, too subjective measures or failures, inadequate communication with the public and also with the social partners. Minister Petty Officer must have had the hardest job. He was also the first different man as minister in this department. In addition, this resource and its work are at the heart of the core, with the need for a highly coordinated work in all government measures and legislative changes. It was, in my view, effective in this work. Regrettably, he had no luck in any less important work of operational, media and public communication. This can be a lesson and experience for all of us that changing values in modern society and in Slovenia, in particular, if they are regulated by non-payment, we can apply long-term, professional and versatile debates and seek as harmonised, acceptable and also ethical and moral solutions. I can easily imagine what the reaction would be in the public if the President of the Government did not react and, of course, the reaction of the opposition. Without coordination and professional confrontation, the Minister published this proposal for a fertility strategy, even though it would have been for the purpose of a prior public debate. Such sensitive matters of human intimacy should be well discussed on all dimensions and re-rethought inter-sectorally, thus formulating a proposal for a public debate strategy. I believe that if there is no more coordination and agreement with the President of the Government, it is best that you step down and let the way forward for effective work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Minister Drobnic, present ministers, secretary of state, colleagues, fellow Members. I am pleased that today we have heard that Minister Drobnič has made a positive contribution to Slovenian politics by the coalition members, and that it is somehow hidden by the opposition. Even today, we have already talked about the fact that the data of the Employment Office show that we have unemployment at the lowest level in the last 15 years. There is no need for the great emotions that we had at the beginning of the talk to calm them down. No, no, no. These are facts, these are figures that show that clearly certain contacts between the individual authorities in the country have been quite effective, otherwise this success would not have been achieved. It is clear that at the Ministry, in the beginning, the direction outlined has gone in a positive direction and is reflected in the positive form already mentioned. Above all, as far as employment is concerned, it is positive not only that the numbers are better, but also that the motivation of individuals seeking employment is greater to find work. This is not least for individuals to be reintroduced into work, especially for the dignity of an individual to be able to live alone without living from the support he receives from the State. It cannot be denied that there have also been positive incentives for employers to pay their contributions to job seekers under 26 years of age, as well as those after 55 years. So for groups that are harder to employ if we take a real look. This is useful for both workers and employers. There is also a positive attitude toward younger women, couples who decide for their children. Knowing this, we are obliged to have, in the National Assembly, the feeling that employers who employ more women or women, in some situations, may find themselves faced with a more difficult job organization when a woman leaves a temporary job on maternity leave or on maternity leave and child care leave. And these positive changes have been made in the amendments or additions to the already mentioned Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment, the payment of contributions to the person who will thus replace the person on maternity leave or on leave for the care and protection of the child. That's an undisputedly good move, too. Of course, I am already hearing some who disagree with such measures, which they mark, as previously discussed by fellow Member Žgajner, that all these measures go back to the previous century, so that to women, we want to prevent employment from being pushed back for the stove. This can only be said by someone who is delusional if I express myself in a slightly milder form, or by someone who does not think well. This is about the rights that an individual, an individual, can benefit, but can not. Above all, it is important that these are rights which can also be claimed. And as a matter of fact, it's on an individual. As in a specific case, there is also a proposal for a solution. Let me mention another thing that's been taking a lot of dust lately. I believe it is of my own mind to discuss anything promising about the future of our country, including reforms, excessively and without meaning, if the Slovenians do not begin to solve the underlying problem, it is a demographic picture. I was therefore pleased that after many years of the absence of the Government or the Ministry of Labour, the problem began to be addressed and the problem began to be highlighted. Whether the draft for raising fertility is one or the other, anyone with a minimum width can read it as a relatively real picture of the actual situation, and in particular a set of measures that indicate the steps forward. And I am aware not only of myself as a Member, but before I was elected, that the most difficult after the government's performance will be to normalise the situation in some areas in Slovenia. Of course, establishing order is unpopular and talking about problems and solving them is a difficult and unpopular thing. There are people, there are groups of people who don't care about the common good, about the nation, and they usually look exclusively at a rather short-term benefit. Above all, it is typical of such people, and I regret that we also have some of these in the National Assembly, that they are difficult to tolerate people who are better than them, who have a broader view and are in common good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u85	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Yesterday and before yesterday we discussed in this Chamber, we talked about the first interpretation that failed, today we are talking about the Government's proposal to replace Minister Drobnic. For me personally, this proposal was quite a surprise. You want to replace the Minister of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, which covers one of the most demanding sources. And personally, I am convinced that Minister Drobnic led and led this ministry successfully, but that the problems in the ministry are also from the past, because things are not timely and through resolution - certainly a great deal. In the coalition contract we wrote "The Coalition will work for the well-being of Slovenia" and one of the eleven points is "Improving the conditions for the formation and development of families and increasing fertility". To me, the area of family and social affairs is very important, and in its pre-election programme, the main objective of helping families with many children was that of Nova Slovenija and I personally assess that this is a topic that currently faces the whole of Europe and not just Slovenia. Families who are willing to accept more children are of exceptional importance to society as a whole. In my view, our country's priority should be to promote such coherence in all areas of life so that the demographic indicators of our society will in the long run point to the balance of all generations and the family must remain the centre and foundation of society. We should develop relationships that will be friendly both to increase the number of children and to the elderly and the sick. In an area in which the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is responsible, this emphasis was placed on a relatively high level of attention compared to other ministries. In the person of the Magi. Janez Drobnič is certainly the most notable past effort to improve the situation in the family. Here I would remind him of his work as a Member when he sought to close trade on Sundays. And today I find it difficult to express my bitter disappointment at the fact that in spite of the referendum, a referendum has broken the referendum will and a different law has been passed than the will of the people expressed in the referendum. I must give the greatest thanks today to Minister Drobnič in particular for amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. I must say that these changes in our environment have come across a very positive response, because with the changes in this law we are actually giving a few more families with many children. I can't be too long, so I'll just say the following in the end. Previously, it was said by a national party that Minister Drobnic takes the dignity of women to try to dictate to women how they should give birth to children and force them to do so. I must say, at least in my environment, mothers give birth because they love them, not because Minister Petty Officer said so. I cannot support the proposal of the mandate-holder alone, because I am sure that the Minister has done well in this ministry and that there is still much work to be done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I had previously quoted Member John Janez Janša, who in a similar situation protested that the then President of the Government had left the meeting and had not listened to the debate. Let me not do this again. I ask you, however, where the proposer is and whether you are prepared to interrupt this important meeting of the National Assembly, that whoever has caused us to sit here today, that the invitation has received 90 Members and Members, attend this meeting and, as he said at the outset, listens to us and our arguments and answers to them, if necessary. I don't see that willingness. All I see is the undervaluation of the National Assembly, while the President may be meeting at any of the secret informal meetings or holding a third. What is more important than listening to the National Assembly that called him to discuss his proposal? Mr President, you have made similar proposals when you were in a position where I am already largely alone and I propose that at this point you suspend the session and ensure that, if he thinks seriously, he attends these meetings or should withdraw him. Don't make fun of us and our time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u88	I will put your motion for suspension to a vote in the framework of the vote if you wish. But I think there's a lot of government representatives in here. Mr. Steba has the floor. Mr. Saiovic. Mr Školč, you have already made a procedural proposal, I have heard it and you cannot form procedural proposals for procedural proposals. Mr. Saiovic, do you give up?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As far as your proposal is concerned with the vote on the procedural proposal, we could say that it is probably too late to ring the bell after the course, but it is likely that the debate of my predecessor on the ground and is correct at least for all Members and Members. I welcome this debate first, and I also welcome Mr Drobnič and the two ministers, who have also been so brave and brave to stand by him at these moments, so it is not least right and right. As far as Minister Drobnič is concerned, I would say that if you can't help someone, he doesn't have to be harmed, and that's how I'll stick to this debate and the vote. Mr Drobnič's ministry certainly had some positive, as well as a number of negative moments in which some strange and controversial decisions have resulted in milk spilling over the edges in every way. In these moments, however, I appreciate that, as a sportsman and as a marathonman, he has been able to achieve so much strength and courage that he has not given up, that the Slovenian public can hear this debate, which is a good one, which is constructive in particular for the one or the one he will replace; and that he has decided to stand up to the end and that the decision - whatever he will - is taken at the end is not appropriate to depart in the middle of the road. The debate, such as today, will undoubtedly make it easier for a new minister or minister, and I am sure that the conclusions from this will be particularly good for Slovenia and Slovenia. The minister was appointed by a coalition in the National Assembly, and as far as I'm concerned, it should also be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u90	Thank you. School, procedural again. Here you go. I hope it's different.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u91	Mr President, I believe that you have previously abused your presidency and have not acted as usual. Once procedural proposals have been put to the vote, these procedural proposals have gone to the vote. You certainly have the right to suspend the meeting without a vote. I believe that this proposal should be put to the vote immediately. Your interpretation of this as part of your resolution means making fun of us who are sitting here. Mr Janša said he was ready to answer any questions later. When relief comes, it is no longer possible to answer that question. From this point of view, I think you are making mistakes and you do not have to humiliate the National Assembly in such a way as not to allow all the conditions necessary for the meeting to take place. And I ask that you put a procedural proposal to the vote if you cannot decide on it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u92	Mr. Skull, be serious. You're an old MP. As is always the case with long debates, at the beginning there is always a proposaler and we have demanded the presence of the applicant for further explanation. And Mr President was present, he explained his point of view and was present all the time when the views of the groups were lined up. However, we have never in the National Assembly in lengthy debates, day-to-day or more, demanded that the applicant be present at all times. And this time I understand your proposal as some less serious matter. We continue the debate. Mr. Hwauc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will probably all agree that this Government has a very large, very ambitious programme, which is also being implemented intensively. This is not the last thing we feel in the National Assembly, where we deal with these many laws that try the situation in Slovenia - as it was - to improve and ensure a better future for all Slovenes and Slovenians. It is quite clear that in such a team that does such extensive, demanding work, there must be some harmony, some consensus, or, if technically speaking, all must be reconciled to the same frequency. And it is also clear that if the President of the Government has found that one article is not as appropriate in this chain, and given that the first one is responsible for the functioning of the Government, it is perfectly logical that he has decided and acted. And we are here today to express our support or support to Minister Drobnik on his proposal. I would more agree that it would be more right or more practical for the Minister to offer his own resignation, but he has taken advantage of the opportunity at his disposal, and in fact, there is nothing wrong with this debate in Parliament today. Ministers are appointed by this honourable assembly, and ministers are, under the Constitution, also responsible under Article 110 of this Assembly, there is nothing wrong with discussing it again today. When I listened to the opposition's debate, I heard a few statements, some statements that I think are perfectly normal, and I will give a few of them. Janez Janša made a mistake when he appointed Mr Drobnik as Minister. It's a dispute between the Johns, it's about solving some prestigious issues, it's about washing up a dirty prairie, it's about disagreements in the government, it's about breaking up the government, it's about a government crisis, it's about coalition disagreements, and so on. In addition, more was said, in my opinion, more difficult words. Although the situation in Slovenia is stable, that we have achieved in the last period, even during this government, some very encouraging, good results have been reduced, unemployment has been very high, economic growth has been very high, we have met the criteria for taking the euro, etc., not to mention, and some have said that the situation has been fully driven to remedy this, even by the fact that the President of the Government has checked the confidence in the national assembly, to resign and so on, even to the proposal that early elections are needed. One of the panellists stressed in particular that Slovenia did not start yesterday or with the Government of President Janez Janša, but that we have another history - and I absolutely agree with that. If we look back a little bit, two ministers were replaced in the first government of Janez Drnovska. In another government from 1993 to 1997, even 12 ministers were replaced in one way or another. Some have resigned themselves, some have been resolved, I think even one has been intertwined. In the third Government of Janez Drnovška, seven ministers were replaced and six ministers were replaced in the approximately two-year term of office of colleague Rob. Thus, 27 ministers have been replaced together in three mandates. Today, when we are talking about solving one minister, knowing that in two years this government has left only one minister, Jože P. Damian, and we are hearing that this is a crisis, such and otherwise that it is a disaster and, I don't know what else. I do not think that anything completely tragic is happening if, in the past, when a substantial number of ministers have changed, a request has never been made for this or other President of the Government to resign in order to replace him or even go to early elections, as we have heard today's proposal. If, after two years in this government, the second minister replaces himself, that this is indeed nothing tragic, that it is a perfectly normal democratic process in a society that has its own rules, and that it is a process that is in accordance with the Constitution and legislation. That is why I will also support the proposal of the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u94	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Skolch. I hope he's different.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u95	Mr President, as old as you said, MP, first of all, I am protesting that you are qualified as serious or unrealistic in the process. I would also warn you that you are here in Parliament, not the government or the party you belong to. I therefore seriously expect you to put the procedural proposal to the vote or to ensure that the proposer of this meeting is present here. I don't know how you and the Slovenian public imagine someone coming here, saying something, and going. What if all the parliamentarians also left the protest because the proposalr is not here and waited for him to come back. If he wants to defend his proposal, he must be willing to discuss it with Parliament. This is order and, Mr President, you should take care of the reputation of Parliament, not the reputation of your client colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It seems that we should be particularly grateful for this, so some of my colleagues have already said, and I agree with them that Minister Drobnič has probably been disciplining the Prime Minister's orders throughout the military period. In this respect, he was even a very effective minister. I am also convinced all the time that Minister Drobnic is doing great harm to both the social and the legal state. Unlike some other colleagues in this Chamber, I personally do not know him well, but from some of the evasive meetings of the Committees of the National Assembly, I have the impression that this is a harsh dogmatic, which has a particularly patriarchal and distasteful attitude towards women. Every time I saw him, it occurred to me that the main thing in his relationship with the female population was three German or Old Austrian k-ai, namely Küche, Kinder, Kirche, or our kitchen, children, church. Nevertheless, I must admit that his strategy to increase fertility has surprised me very much that someone who is a minister of the family here, today, in the 21st century in the middle of Europe can think in such a backward way. And that really impressed me. So I'm actually very pleased that the Minister is leaving today. But since I am not hearing very well at the command of the Prime Minister, I will not support his proposal, but I will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u99	Dear Minister Drobnic, distinguished other representatives of the Government, Members and Members! You will not be surprised if I say that I will support your departure, because in these two years we have diverged in many respects in respect of the laws you brought to the National Assembly, but let me tell you that I see this discrepancy as a result of the implementation of the whole Government's policy, but not just your personal views. This is how I believe that the documents you brought to the National Assembly have been coordinated by the Government and brought to the National Assembly by means of a government-coordinated procedure. It is true, however, that you have not aligned one document with the Government, but the Government has accepted the increase in fertility as its fundamental priority and you may have fallen into a position of speed. However, I will be calm only when all that is in the strategy is removed from this fertility strategy. Let me say that I believe that it is put on the wrong footing, which means that it is completely unacceptable for me as a document, except for that analytical work that speaks from the analysis, from the research, and unfortunately those who wrote this to you have proposed quite unacceptable measures, and you have also stated some of your views which, given that we are part of the European Union, are completely unacceptable. I see demographic policy more broadly than I can see from this strategy, because it is not just fertility, but a lot more. This is what you said at the presentation of this document that you are building on fertility, not on the fact that the demographic image of Slovenia would also change by immigration. All European countries facing such a problem as Slovenia are also referring to immigration. The second observation, which is fundamental and essential to the orientation of this document, I think it is. For me and the Social Democrats, a child is still an intimate matter of two. The task of the State is to create the conditions for these two, who feel mutual attraction, also to give birth to children in this world with great joy. And only here, I think, can the country get into this and nothing else. Like the Social Democrats, we advocate partner democracy, and in this fertility strategy, I see too little emphasis on the role of both. In some places it is, I can't say, here and there it is, but the strategy is written in such a way that as a woman I feel a tightness and feel a paternalistic attitude of writers of measures towards my sex. I would like to list a number of other concerns that I have with regard to this strategy, so I cannot agree to what the public may accept - that only one of the so-called measures from the strategy will be eliminated, otherwise the strategy will be adopted. As we say, there's too much to interfere with in this strategy. This document is not acceptable to the Social Democrats. Now, just one more thing. Several times I asked either individual ministers or the President of the Government how, with respect for the ethical code, my questions were answered. You have now gained or lost confidence precisely by reason of non-compliance with the ethical code. However, I could show you a few examples that your other colleagues did not respect social dialogue, but on the same issues - the composition of the worlds past unions and the social partners - they have done things and have not yet been given confidence. In financing NGOs, I actually have the most insights into your account, because decisions have been made that really go beyond meeting the same criteria. You didn't even take care of setting the criteria that would put everything in the same position. I mean veteran organisations, I mean the Key, I mean the part that you don't accept that NGOs in their own way determine the content of their operations and the Ministry can't judge what the content of their operation is. So, Minister Petty Officer, don't mind, there's too much I don't agree with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, representatives of the Government, distinguished Minister Janez Drobnič, distinguished colleague of the Member and fellow Members! I will not talk broadly about the downsides and benefits, in particular the achievements of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the last two years and the possible missed opportunities. Members of Parliament have received an extensive report signed by the Minister, and each of us is left to make an objective assessment and assessment of his work in peace. Of course, it's not arithmetic, not political at all, no pluses and minuses. And there is no arithmetic without numbers, which, for example, in monitoring the budget for 2006, 2007 and 2008 clearly indicate that the social state did not die, such as some opposition colleagues and colleagues demagoske and in some anger and cramp. For example, the good 12 billion more money in the 2007 budget for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is a 4.5% increase compared to this year's budget. This is eloquent information that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state. When I listen to angry debates and attacks on human dignity named Janez Drobnič, then I am concerned about the state of the spirit in our Slovenia. It is a political moment in the Republic of Slovenia, in our country, in our country, ladies and gentlemen, where the chaos we have heard about is not accidental, but carefully planned by those who do not want to do well. The Slovenian public needs to know that there are forces in Slovenia that want to prevent this coalition first the historic project of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and then all the other projects to which we are bound by the coalition contract, with a coalition programme written for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The resource covered by Minister Janez Drobnič is extremely complex and difficult. At least here we are united. Therefore, it may be appropriate today to divide the matter for the future, or it might not be wise to divide it. But don't let this area ever be covered by or under the responsibility of one of my fellow Members from the far left, because then we would expel the Roma, perhaps the Italian and Hungarian national communities, all of whom we are in any way connected with the Christian faith. Welcome to Slovenia for as long as you can! New Slovenia, the key and most constructive coalition partner, also remains, despite the emotional stress we are experiencing. Obviously we do not deserve recognition at home, but Europe sees us. Two European awards for one minister, Minister of New Slovenia. Something unheard of, but about this, about rewards - silence please, silence. We're Slovenians, where we're still fossier than our class, forerunners. Although the recipient of the prize says, this is the result and work of the entire government, the entire coalition, this is the achievement of the entire Slovenian nation. That's what we are. The new Slovenia coalition partner remains, even more and will need to work even better to realize everything we have promised. Dear Minister, dear Janez, many good projects have been implemented for Slovenia, thank you. Counting what is done and listing what is not done today does not count. However, I respect the Prime Minister's conclusion that there is no more trust between you, which is the basic prerequisite for teamwork and governments. His responsibility is the greatest. Although I expected a reconstruction of the government in the package, if necessary, but this is the prime minister's responsibility and decision. But since I don't think you're the worst minister, I'm not voting for your release. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Drobnic, others, colleagues and colleagues! At this point, I am looking for some thought to advise the current Minister in his resignation something good and always comes to me and again comes a solution, offer Mr Minister, step down on your own! We're late here. For we expected many of us to do so on the proposal of the President of the Government, perhaps when you came to this speaker, when you presented your views on the proposed proposal instead, but you insisted, which many were terribly disturbed, and I am among those who are shaping the story perhaps a little differently. We have already seen in the proposal of the President of the Government that he is disturbed by the business solution that he must propose to this assembly. Although we had in the past in play, those we remember also the solutions that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, would design these solutions himself, but then Mr Janša persistently opposed this solution, which he is deeply disturbed by today. I have been following your views in the past - what I may have told you sometime, now that you are Minister, that you are here, you may have had other views on certain solutions than you are taking today, but this is no longer my problem, it is someone else's problem. What I said earlier that I would have given you one other solution, another way to stop being criticized by the opposition MPs, which may be our task, but that you are not being processed here by your coalition colleagues to maybe get rid of this. And what is happening to us is constantly and again manifested by the fact that some of my colleagues have already stressed that you are some in the government tools that are used for a while and then discarded. This whole reform group is almost burned or burned down, that in the case of Strojan's story is also one of the ministers of the tool that may not burn up so quickly, but is the centre of the charges and so on, and that you may be something like yourself. A lot of things have been said about what's right and what's wrong. A lot of this wasn't good. I will not make this clear to you, but in view of the varied debate that has been here today and because we as the House of Members are functioning in a way that we have the right of Members to always make their own decisions, in my conscience, I will decide how to vote at the end of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister Drobnič, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, Minister, you know that I have been all these years since you took over this function, which is a sharp criticism of the conduct and texts of the laws you have brought to the National Assembly. We have also proposed in our Group a series of amendments to the laws you have tabled, but of course there has never actually been a hearing, so that any improvement on your part and then on the part of the coalition can also be accepted. Of course, I was surprised when the President, then the candidate and the President of the Government, proposed to you as Minister, because I knew your views in the previous term, which we had spent together as a Member, and I also knew that you were very hard in these positions and, of course, I felt that in the field of work, family and social life, people with disabilities need to have sensitivity, because if any area is sensitive it is certainly your area that is difficult and also today it has been repeatedly said here. Of course, you didn't throw away my fear, and you acted like a minister. And of course, that you could have done that, and I don't just attribute it to you. I also assign to the President of the Government, who in this way, in fact, as he himself has done, has supported you with his actions. For, how else to understand, for example, the statements made by the Prime Minister of the Government when, in relation to the reform proposals, the unions came in a very bad time and tried to express their position, of course, the President's attitude was that if they wanted to hang out, they should come at least when the weather was better. The same way of dialogue was shown by the President of the Government in relation to students, when he said that why should he deal with those who are here today, should the right ones come who will be ready to talk. So, on the one hand, hardness and underestimation, on the other hand, of the choice of interlocutors, in order to make a proper agreement. And when I ask myself about the justification that the President of the Government gives in writing and is the basis for calling this meeting, he lists some things that he would like to comment on. So, it's an obvious that you've been over-preaching these acts. Of course, I wonder for myself, as has already been said here repeatedly, whether the first minister, namely the President of the Government, did not know that you are strategically bad at drafting employment laws, i.e. the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, where we place people in the fact that those who are recipients of monetary social assistance are characterized as not wanting to work, and so tomorrow they will have to accept every job if they do not, they will lose that right. The law on prevention of work and employment in black, in which you non-systemically introduce new forms of work without compliance with the social partners who assess that this should be introduced into the system legislation in the Labour Relations Act. Not to mention the Social Protection Act, where to reintroduce changes, so that one or two levels of lower education will have to be accepted independently of education. Not to mention the Law on the establishment of a minimum wage, in which, despite the agreement reached with the social partners, you place yourself as an arbitrator to determine this minimum wage. You also change the criteria where the minimum wage increases significantly differently than if followed, for example, only the growth of the social gross product. And I am not talking about the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households, where budgetary logic was essential to you before what it would bring to people. That's why I can't accept it here, not in your defense, Mr. Minister, that the President of the Government knew nothing about it. For if he warned you in February, March, together with your party's president that you are not doing some things properly, I wonder whether and what - if we are going to resolve you today, and in fact it is a very strange relationship, because the President of the Government has to count on the opposition's votes so that he can resolve his minister, because they cannot provide him with it in the coalition. That is why I ask myself, and this question I am asking Mr President of the Government as a candidate, what will change when we resolve Mr Drobnic. Will politics change because we don't hear it? We do not hear this relationship because so far all this policy has been implemented in these laws. You have only this shame that you have not understood that everyone in the Strategic Council has left the story that the Reform Committee has left, that the last minister or government reform service is leaving now. You have done this social work, but of course the rest of the reforms are no longer in place; the shell remains, but there is nothing inside. And I think the Prime Minister of the Government has come to realize this, and you have now been the one who is disturbing the implementation and continuation of these reforms. Of course that's what he's worried about. What's the big deal? Will they now change the legislation that has reduced social standards in Slovenia in the second part of the mandate? But if we don't do this - is it only John the Ripper that matters and politics will remain the same? These are the questions that the President of the Government should be answering today and, of course, he is not here today. For when it comes to the fact that the basis for your resolution is also the implementation of the normative programme, then I would expect an analysis today for all other ministers as well. I wonder what this relationship will be like for ministers who, for example, will be interpelled by the opposition and will have, say, such calculations that will have possibly significantly worse numbers than you have. And when we were able to hear yesterday that it was necessary to support Minister Simoniti in the coalition because he raised funds in the budget for his department, I wonder what the position of this coalition will be when we talk about the minister who reduced the items in his department. And not only that, it transfers them from the budget to the mandatory cash register, which is powered from purely other means. And then it will be interesting to hear what this relationship of this coalition and this President of the Government will be like. But not to mention what social dialogue is like, because it seems to me, given how the representatives of the Government, i.e. the President to the Minister, and how you are today talking to each other about the coalition, it is perfectly understandable that this coalition and that this Government cannot have a different social dialogue than it does, because today you are demonstrating it in the most explicit form that you are very poor to hear each other. For how to understand on the one hand all the arguments for giving support to the Minister and on the other hand the arguments that, of course, this Minister does not deserve this support. Therefore, my key dilemma is whether the policy of this government will change in relation to this area - for which, Mr Minister, I agree that many mistakes have been made - whether the policy remains the same, or whether we will have only after your resolution - is that the Tiny still remains Tiny, of course only in terms of content and policy. Only you will pay this price, which you consistently carried out what was possible before the start of the reform mandate. Unfortunately, it is far from being achieved in the middle of this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I myself have been following this debate today. I would like to say that I am aware of the importance of Article 114 of the Constitution, which imposes responsibility on the President of the Government, and in fact it is a shame that we are discussing this in this manner today in this National Assembly, because we have heard a lot of criticism at the expense of the Minister, including a lot of lies. I am also surprised at the statements made by some colleagues from the ruling coalition. I don't want to comment, I could just use that famous Caesar river and say, "It's Brute!" As for coordination and working with the Economic and Social Council and the social partners, we do not have time to specifically list all the laws and respond to all these manifests that do not hold, but here is a list made by the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and in which every law is written, you can get and see. If he only mentioned what Mr Germič pointed out last, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Insurance for the Case of Unemployment, the Economic and Social Council, all the other members, except one, which speaks of the composition of the Council of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, and which we then adopted here in the National Assembly, are harmonised. Many amendments to the Social Democrats, who are partners in these reform laws, are also partners and ministers need to negotiate and coordinate with you. We have accepted many of your amendments, and perhaps, my fellow Member Kumer, it is indeed good to apologize for your statement, but we have not accepted all of them. Because if we were to accept all your amendments and if I am doing a little caricature, then, really, a little cartooning, maybe the Slovenian budget should be even bigger than with all the amendments. Despite all the social rights that remained as they were and even increased some of them, you came into some extreme with every proposal and wanted to add more to everything. This is very attractive, and the question is whether this can also be done from a state point of view. Here's to the end. Previously, Bebler's colleague was talking about some three k's, which, of course, we could do in some of our realities - not Austrian, but Slovenian - and maybe convert and say, "Communism, guilt, disaster." Liberal atheism strives to liberate man and society of all values in the moral, ethical, ethnic, and especially in the religious field, and we also listen here constantly when you talk to us, I don't know, not only to the minister, but also to us that we are xenophobics, I don't know what kind of stuck conservatives, etc. But I will tell you, here before you, that when a man rejects, I will say, God's Law, which is written in the human conscience, can allow everything and, of course, in the history of mankind, it was great and nothing binds us or prevents us from ever coming back again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Mogue. Mr. Kumer, you can't have procedural or procedural ease, but you can't replicate because there's no time. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, but please, it's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u109	Yes, I have a procedural proposal to warn those who are discussing further that you do not mention my last name, because I no longer have time for a replica. But if you want, I'll tell you the following in three minutes. And the truth is a lie if it's said at the wrong time in the wrong place. I am outside the Parliamentary, and today it has been repeatedly said that the secret bed is not of interest to me. I told you what is at the work of the National Assembly and at the National Assembly itself. I don't care about the rest. You can "kiss" and boast about the things you agree on, take note, coordinate at some secret meetings, even if it's called a development partnership. I am talking about working bodies and this National Assembly as the highest legislative body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u111	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unlike the Minister of Defence, who, as far as financial resources and programmes are concerned, drained of honey and milk, Minister Drobnic was a poor man. He had a heavy burden on his back. For the first time, the burden of the Lisbon strategy, the second time the burden of the euro, the Slovenians are not so stupid and we can count well that the greatest gain of that calculator, we will calculate these things. But once we adopt the euro, for the first time, we will have European prices, and for the second time we will have Slovenian wages. And these wages and the labour market adapt to the fact that we will also be equal to Italians and Austrians, which is a bad thing. Social rights will have to be reduced, lunches will have to be abolished, in your opinion, because you did not know the other model, stability at work and so on. So Minister Drobnič had, and only these two cases I am giving, a heavy burden on his back and that he did not have a lot of help within the coalition trust itself, but also I think, because the coalition and what I am reading to this Government worked so that the laws that the Government sent, except what the Law-Legal Service did not say, were accepted as a roller on a running tape. At the same time, it was, which will slowly begin to avenge itself, arrogant to the public concerned and to the professional public. I can't imagine what we've been here so long, in this room a witness, that over 21,000 teachers sign something that the professional public is behind, and this is going cold-blooded with the roller-skating and going somewhere else. You know, people need to be taken into account, you didn't get the authorities in permanent possession, you only got the dishes. And in a year and a half, we're going to have to do a calculation, maybe on average our development indicators are good, they're good, they're nothing, they're on average. But while there are other things, human rights, respect for people, solving their problems in an arrogant way, that's what doesn't bother you and it's not an honor. And it seems to me that about what I said, Minister Drobnič is the first fighter of New Slovenia, I must say, here he fought as a Member, and also as Prime Minister, in this Government the sacrificial lamb of this government. I'm not in favour of hiding my mistakes and wanting to be good to the public. He stood on the barricades, on the barricades and here publicly declared that he was not a hypocrite, unlike the work of Prime Minister Janez Janša. This one said publicly that the cash was here when [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In the National Assembly, however, it is said that there was no cash or that there was no evidence of arms trafficking. [[...]] And one more thing, I believe, Mr Petty Officer, is that you have a Christian ethos and that now that you have been nailed to the cross of shame in this National Assembly, you will say, "I forgive you, Prime Minister John, for you do not know what you are doing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. A lot of hard words have been spoken here today by some parties, opposition Members, and this is a matter that is normal in parliamentary democracy. The changes in ministerial cities are not - we are not meeting for the first time today, but they have a very long history backdrop. Above all, during the period when you led Slovenian governments as Liberal Democrats, you have been extremely successful with exchange or exchange of ministers. And today, to report to someone who has proposed a change to one of the ministerial departments - I don't know what qualifications and to accuse him of doing so, I think it's completely incorrect. The fact is that in some parties it is extremely difficult to bear the trauma of the 2004 political restructuring. At that time, there was a change, a new government was set up, a coalition treaty was signed, and the fundamental objectives of this coalition are enshrined in this coalition. There are policies defined there, there are more or less defined objectives and there are, if the objectives are written, also written the tasks of individual departments and also the tasks of individual ministers. The fact is that all ministers have proposed amendments in their competence, proposed acts. And the fact is that these changes or these acts have largely deviated from the concepts or concepts before 2004. Even because there have been major conceptual changes in the work of the Government, even the great conceptual changes in thinking, in methods, in processes, these pains have been so much worse. And any changes or large majority of changes, the amendments you have proposed to such laws fall into the category if they were adopted or caused to remain the laws they are. If you look closely at all your amendments in the field of work, in the field of finance, in the field of anything, then you will find that you would be exactly where we accepted this responsible task. The fact is that the situation in the last two years of the operation of this government is significantly better. And the fact is that the situation is significantly better in one part also because of external influences, but above all it is significantly better than that, because there have been major internal changes in many areas, in all areas. We have implemented major tax reform measures, in the area of development aid, in the area of regional development, in the field of work and other things, and all these changes are positive and deliver positive results. Under all these criteria, this country is better than European countries, such as the old members of the European Union, and as a result, because of higher economic growth, better GDP, we are catching more wages of developmental backlogs inherited from successful periods before and before this government. In short, the happiness we inherited was immeasurable. The fact is that there may sometimes be differences of opinion, differences in behaviour, differences in personality, differences in concepts, differences in procedures and ways, and these differences need to be resolved. It is most common to start by talking about how to proceed with the warning, the suggestions, and so on. And all of these methods were used in a specific case. The decision-making of the actors in this part has only led to the situation that this matter is being addressed today at the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, in this particular debate, I am actually disturbed by the double opinion of some of the people you have discussed. You're against the Minister at the same time, and you're supporting the Minister at the same time. This is, I would say, a complete dissipation, which is probably also due to the situation in which some parties find themselves unable to gather when they cannot concentrate, when they cannot unite, and then all this dissipation is transferred to the debate in the National Assembly. I am also disturbed by double criteria, double criteria for practically very similar things, such as human rights, towards the rule of law. Not long ago, a few days ago, one of the Members invited people to the barricades and to disobey. He practically allowed himself to sit on the legal side of the country and there was no one who could hear it. His parliamentary group did not respond, the President of the Commission did not respond to petitions and equal opportunities, the party did not respond, the President of the Party which is a European Member and would like to be the President of the State did not respond to any institution in that country, the Ombudsman, nor did any of the candidates for the Ombudsman respond to this problem. In short, we have experienced the practical defeat of the rule of law - and nothing has happened. For a week we have been waiting for the reaction of hearing representatives of one of the parliamentary parties, who has in his ranks a Member and the mayor, who has allowed himself to invite people to the barricades, only by hearing that the state commission has come to look at a possible potential location for the settlement of one of the Roma families. Neither did any of you, from your party, nor Mrs Shirca, who is so sensitive or Mr Školč, require anything from any European institutions. Gil-Robles has not been invited, Hammerberg has not been invited, and this is where you teach about the rule of law, about relations, about the situation between people and so on. In short, complete duality, which is absolutely inappropriate for a serious parliamentary party. In the end, I wonder who the xenophobics really are - those who accuse others of being xenophobic? They're probably the biggest xenophobes. However, with regard to a specific case, I think it is also necessary to establish that the portfolio covered by Minister Drobnič has actually made important changes, but also the fact that all of these things that were planned have not taken place in a way that some things could be done differently, better and faster. The fact is, there have been some complications, some disputes. And it is obvious that it is also necessary to resolve these conflicts in a different way and to find solutions in a different way. In short, I think that the situation in this country is such that there is no need to arouse completely any fear, they are not alarming after any pay, and even after this vote in the National Assembly, things will not change significantly. And I think that the functioning of the coalition will take place in the same way that this coalition has so far been characterized and has worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. The word has a procedural proposal, Mr. Skolch? [[...]] Unfortunately, time is no longer available. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has the floor. Here you go. Mr. Minister, this is about the technique that is accompanying the time of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I will submit myself to the technique and, of course, to the stipulation of the National Assembly. Regardless of all the words that have been said in the past hours at this meeting, I believe that the reason for my resolution is not either my success or my failure - or, rather, my failure to achieve my goals. Neither is it my weak or weak management of the ministry, or the human resources and organizational consolidation of the Ministry. And there's also no reason for my resolution to be clear of my conflicts both inside and outside the Ministry. The reason for my resolution is not clear of my failures and shortcomings. I assume, however, that the reason for my resolution is too successful, which is reflected in the fulfilment of the normative plan of the Ministry and Government, and in particular the implementation of the measures outlined in the framework for economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia adopted by the Government on 3 November 2005. Secondly, the Strategy for Raising Fertility in Slovenia, which was sent by the Ministry on 10 November 2006 to inter-resort coordination, which was presented at the press conference on 15 November, and also published on the official websites of the Ministry as a draft working material, suitable for public debate and open to comments, criticisms and additions of both professional and general public. Prior to all this, on 24 October 2006 I submitted a request to the President of the Government in writing via official e-mail, for the first time asking him to talk on this subject in a letter in February this year, for a discussion on the subject of a strategy that is in the final stage and just before harmonisation in the professional world and the family world. I have not received the answers, direction, and views to this day, nor have I invited this subject to be discussed. But I was invited to talk on November 21st, after a meeting with union representatives. Well, I will not be precise, almost an hour later, because the President of the Government has been very busy regulating the urgent and non-removable obligations that management and the staffing and organisational consolidation of the entire Government entails. The conversation was short, about 10 minutes and without special content. I claim that the Strategy for Raising Birth in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the most important strategic documents of this government. I hope to say that it is the most important document, because the framework of economic and social reforms and the resolution on the development of Slovenia have one major error for people, future Slovenians, who will not, if birth in Slovenia does not rise. This is the responsibility of the current Minister, the Government and each individual, and precisely this responsibility is addressed by the strategy presented. And a brief explanation to all who object to the mention of abortion in the strategy. The statistics available to us and show the decline in abortion in Slovenia have been false in the last ten years. It does not cover abortions carried out up to 6 weeks of pregnancy of the mother because they are considered to be minor ambulatory interventions. So the abortions in Slovenia are much more than the numbers show us. Mothers, couples, spouses who are faced with abortion decisions are generally in distress, not just in social life. The responsibility of society is not to cover up problems and pressures and hide behind the paragraphs, it is the responsibility of society to resolve the difficulties and the responsibility of the state to take professional, dignified and financial approaches to solving the problem. Slovenia does not need unwelcome, dissatisfied, frightened and concerned people with hardship and pain on their faces, but clear, brave, happy people who will believe in their leaders and feel safe in their own country. We are all responsible for this, including the Government and also the Minister. And I'm not talking about it. I have never, in any law or programme or strategy that we have drawn up at the Ministry, acted on the basis of my own thoughts and beliefs, but always with great obedience and a sense of distress. I have also acted in accordance with this principle in the strategy for greater fertility. On the basis of the testimony of women and mothers who were in distress and before deciding whether to break the pregnancy or not, I was familiar with many of their pressures. From the publication of this strategy to this day, I have received many messages of support for this strategy also in this work. Let me briefly summarize the contents of these messages. "No one can make a decision for me. I didn't expect anyone to do that either, but I expected attention, advice, an explanation of possible consequences and support for the decision." Is it responsible, then, to close your ears in front of such tribulations? On 21 November 2004, I signed the Ethical Code of this Government, which states in its first paragraph: "I will act in accordance with fundamental values, respect for human life and dignity, freedom, honesty, justice, solidarity and patriotism." On 3 December 2004, I swore before this assembly as Minister, saying: "I will respect the constitutional order, to follow my conscience, and to work with all my strong for the well-being of Slovenia." What I signed two years ago, I also conscientiously and responsibly fulfilled. I did not fail this oath even when I signed a strategy to raise fertility in the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, proposes the discharge of Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Janez Drobnič, because he respected the constitutional order, followed his conscience and worked hard for the well-being of Slovenia and acted in accordance with fundamental values, respect for human dignity, life, freedom, honesty, justice, solidarity and patriotism. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Government has the right and constitutional possibility to propose my discharge from the post of Minister to whom he appointed me. It is your responsibility to judge and vote in accordance with your conscience. Because in these two years, which I have served as Minister, I have thought, spoken and acted in accordance with what I have signed, and because I have taken this into account in the preparation of the legal and other sub-laws, and because I have also done so in communication with subordinates, representatives of civil society, fellow ministers, including the Prime Minister, the President of the Government, I will inform you that I am not going to resign from the post of Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs without having to give full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr President has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to apologize for not accompanying the entire session from here, partly following it through devices, partly reading some questions in magnetograms, and at this time at my disposal, I would like to answer some things. I think it is necessary to separate the grain from the weeds, because in these hours of discussion there was a lot of both, and sometimes very mixed, and there were a lot of Danish gifts for which I thank and I do not accept them. There were many generals after the battle, this is usually in such debates, nothing unusual, it is also normal that when such a situation occurs, the opposition enjoys and takes advantage of it, even today it has happened, not for the first time nor for the last time, what new practices we have not discovered. In explanation of my proposal, I deliberately avoided some of the specifics which I warned the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs earlier this February. There's documentation on that. His client was informed of this in time. I'm not responsible for communication within coalition partners if it's now said it all came suddenly. The fact is that what is happening today can be avoided peacefully, we all have smarter jobs, and we would certainly be nothing to lose if that were to happen. As Mr Drobnic mentioned the laws that have been passed, it is necessary to say that no law in the National Assembly goes with any ministry, the laws proposed by the Government, all the laws are harmonised, including many of those previously listed, have been strongly corrected in this procedure, also supplemented in the parliamentary procedure, and this is a joint, collective work and for those laws that this Government has proposed and which you have adopted here, this Government still stands. By proposing the replacement of one minister, this does not mean that the Government has waived the laws proposed in the parliamentary procedure on the original proposal of that or another source. At least those who are old parliamentarians in these benches should know and not make other statements. In short, just as they could list the laws that were passed, they could also list the laws that were in the programme, but they were not prepared and they were not adopted, unharmonised. As a percentage, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs completed the Government's normative programme in 2005, which was one of the lower percentages among all the departments. It's a tough resort. It was a longer deployment period, which we all understood, and we also looked a little more appreciatively at some of Mr Drobnic's moves in 2005. After one year of this space, tolerance is no longer sufficient and action has to be taken. To talk about the decline in unemployment being only the credit of the Ministry of Labour - it sounds good, but it would be very ideal if only through the administrative measures of one ministry could they raise employment, mainly more employment and lower unemployment are the result of greater economic growth, only this creates new jobs. The Ministry of Labour has also contributed to this by properly guiding some policies, but these are secondary effects, the main reason for reducing unemployment is the good economic situation in Slovenia and significant economic growth. So what the National Assembly has adopted in the field of work, family and social affairs in this mandate is the legacy of this entire Government and we are not giving up this legacy. The opposition you were discussing in this direction, though, you have made some distorted word bravaurs, but this does not have any real basis. At Mr Drobnič's performance, which was otherwise expected, I was disturbed by one thing that I would like to clarify, talking about some secret records of some meetings that were supposed to talk about his replacement or something like that, the matter was quite clearly formulated, some of you later in the debate asked me, I think we should all ask Mr Drobnič together if he had insinuated some of the secret records he owed to the public to show them. There were no secret meetings at the government to discuss his replacement, the only talks on his replacement were held on the basis of a communication by the Prime Minister of the Government - President of the Coalition Party, who proposed Mr Drobnic. And there was no record of it, unless someone did it illegally, but I don't believe it. I doubt that anything has been discussed and recorded anywhere, even without my presence or the presence of the President of the Coalition Party, so that I join those appeals that have been made earlier in this Chamber with Mr Drobnič in simply showing these so-called secret records or apologizing for insinuations. This was not the first time that we had heard false things from his mouth. The government has been put in an unappreciative position on several occasions because of its statements as to how certain legislative proposals are harmonised, and later it turns out that this is not the case. There has also been a case where the Minister explicitly stated that the two laws in his field are coordinated in the Economic Social Council - even in the course of the meeting, it has been proved that this is not true and that the Minister knows this. I also specifically reminded him of this in the letter I spoke about earlier. As far as social dialogue is concerned, the Minister has had a hard time here, there is no doubt about it, including all the others who have negotiated these matters. We did not expect the Minister to comply with the social partners on all matters. That's just impossible. However, we expected such a social dialogue to not always turn out to be the government's fault for the setbacks, because that was not actually true. And we expected this dialogue to be conducted so that we could know where we are. And at the moment, labour legislation is the real behind of the government in implementing economic and social reforms, which is indisputable and must be openly recognised and corrected. Within the economic and social reform package, there are two areas where coordination is the most difficult thing in terms of coordination and concrete movements. One is tax legislation, the other is labour market liberalisation. For both of us, we planned for the National Assembly to decide on the laws by the end of 2006. The end of 2006 is nearing. During this time, we have made great efforts, including through compromises and negotiations, to bring under the roof a whole body of tax legislation that has been more extensive and more difficult. However, we have not been able to put in place a key change in labour law at this time. Also because there was never a clear picture and because the negotiations were conducted in conflict on the inside and on the outside and virtually never knew what we were dealing with. We received different information from the Ministry and others who negotiated. It is true that now this last meeting between me, Minister Petty Officer and the Union is being exploited and misinterpreted. At this meeting, neither my own nor any other party failed to promise that we would agree on everything in the future and that the Government would not propose any law until it was 100 per cent coordinated. If I or anyone else had promised it, it would be very utopian. What we agreed at this meeting was to make another round within these forms of negotiations and negotiations that are already under way, another attempt, if this fails, to make a list of the measures that we are diverging about, and we are trying to bring these things together at the same level as we did with the unions last time, is also my presence. A different interpretation of this agreement and a conclusion later on from my proposal to dismiss the Minister in the sense that the Government has deviated from the reform and from these measures is completely unrealistic and does not have any real basis. As we have moved forward with tax legislation, we will also go with labour law. It is true that there has been a mix of things, such as labour costs or flexibility in the labour market, which is largely entirely separate, and that there have also been various, such and different uses by individuals on the side of both social partners, who have seen their opportunity in this unscrupulous negotiation management and have also been skillfully exploiting this, as I have already said. At this point, however, we are not looking for any kinder negotiator. We expect that whoever takes this place after this exchange will be a more effective negotiator, and that we will soon catch up with a few months' delay in this key area. One of the things that happened several times in this debate, which did not directly address my proposal to replace Mr Drobnič, was the repeated claim made by the leader of the largest opposition group and former Prime Minister of the Government, who spoke of chaos and decay in Slovenia. There is no chaos in Slovenia, there is no decay. The macroeconomic indicators in this country have never been so good. It is true that we expect them to be even better in the future, but all key relations have never been so good. The exchange of one minister for two years is also far from the best balance as regards the stability of governance so far. In Slovenia we were 15 years old, I think six or seven different governments. Around 30 or more ministers have been replaced within this period. During the time of the Governments of the Liberal Democracy, more than half of the ministers were replaced within certain mandates, without any reconstruction of the Government. By saying that it is chaos and decomposition, if one minister is proposed to be replaced for two years, it is somewhat funny, especially if those who have actually promoted a significantly higher concentration of such moves say so. I am sorry that this has also happened, but, as has already been said, the last two years of this mandate are the longest period in the history of any government in Slovenia when there were no such proposals and exchanges. It is true, however, that in some other areas we have a lot of efforts to bring about chaos, to fuel intolerance, to fuel double-faced behaviour, to support one side and to address the Roma problem at local level. This government hangs itself as if it has invented these problems, although we have mostly inherited them and are responsible for the last two years. The opposition parties, who have tolerance in their vocabulary at every two words, act in a completely different way at local level. In a very difficult situation, we had only two cases where the two municipal councils led by the mayor or the Liberal Democracy or the Social Democrats had also taken some illegal measures to prevent the legitimate conduct of state authorities by using a racist vocabulary in the formal decisions of the municipal authorities. With such a way of inflaming passion in Slovenia, as some people do, we can actually say that they want chaos. Equally, I do not know who benefits from the use of the image that spreads from Slovenia at this time around the world and in Europe, when it is necessary to answer questions about why we have forcibly relocated 2 million Roma in Slovenia, or when it answers questions about why Slovenia has deleted 200,000 inhabitants from official records. None of these messages, published outside, were originally written in a foreign language, all translated from Slovenian. It is easy for concentrated attempts in Slovenia to create a picture of Slovenia in the world, especially across Europe, that is far from reality. Yesterday we could hear on one of the TVs a statement by a member of the so-called caravan of so-called eraseds, who said he was glad to have been discredited by Slovenia. He said he was pleased that they had managed to discredit Slovenia with this action. This action was sponsored by political boats from this country. As if things were to go hand in hand, in the last two days we are facing threats from the police union to organise a white police strike in Slovenia. And some of the demands that have nothing to do with reality have been greatly exacerbated. This reminds me of July 1991, when Slovenian Territorial Defence and Slovenian Police prepared to defend Slovenia and the police union announced the sentence for June 27th. And given that it is more or less the same people they were doing with this union at the time, it seems to me that there is a similar abuse in this situation. Despite appeals addressed to the media, there was an organized burning of intolerance. We had the case when commercial television on Sunday, 18 hours after things got messy, reported events on the night of Saturday on Sunday, 20 minutes without mentioning the solution as if they were still barricades, as if it were still a big problem and nothing was settled. And by selectively publishing various statements that fueled intolerance, the situation was actually created to bring things back to normal. And we also experienced on public television a polemic show where participants were invited, who were further aware of how they would act and be of the same category of unreasonable behaviour. The call to tolerance that we have given, the President of the State, the National Assembly and the President of the Government, has been published in some mainstream media in readers' letters as if it were a matter of least importance. And this is all happening when listening to the opposition's views throughout yesterday's debate about how all media are in power in Slovenia. This is really huge cynicism, huge cynicism in a situation like this. And now, in particular, about the reasons why I was forced to propose the replacement of Mr Drobnik. Given that he himself spoke about the so-called fertility strategy in this last performance, the circumstances of the emergence of this so-called strategy should also be clarified. As you know, this coalition has entered into a coalition contract, and the government has then placed in its normative programme a central place from the general demographic picture in Slovenia as well. And in the coalition contract, for this purpose, there are a number of good measures listed. However, at the beginning of our mandate in the Government, we have decided that this Government, as executive power, will not produce new paper and new strategies and resolutions, with the exception of those that are urgently needed or required by legislation, but that the measures that we have specifically listed in the coalition treaty will be put into effect by laws and regulations. We do not get anything if we transfer what is written on one piece of paper to another without having the legal power or power of action and enforceability. Mr Petty Officer knew this very well because it was an agreement on government. The resolution on the increase in fertility was not in the Government's normative programme either in 2005 or in 2006. Even if the document had actually been harmonised, it would have been very difficult for us to accept it because of the fact that it was a copy of the papers. This resolution contains a large number of good measures that are directly copied from the Coalition Treaty and from some other documents and which have nothing to report to them. Apart from the things we have already decided to do, we do not need another decision to do so, but we must do so; not by one more resolution, but by concrete measures. We will probably all agree that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is far from exclusively responsible for such a document or in general for the selection of measures to increase fertility. If we look at these measures under the Coalition Treaty or now from this draft strategy, you will see that these are measures concerning the Ministry of Environment and Space, because of housing issues, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Ministry of Health. In the group preparing this document, the Ministry of Labour has not invited any of the other departments, none of them who actually know anything about the measures proposed. And there was no consultation on the measures proposed after the draft work was launched before the public debate. This means, of course, that proper procedural procedures have not been carried out for the creation of this document and for such a phase of this document that would be appropriate for public debate. Both Mr Drobnic and all other senior officials of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs know this today and knew before they put this document into discussion. The Ministry’s responsible people advised the minister to do so. In particular, he was counseled because some measures had come into the document, which clearly proved to be controversial - he knew what the reference to abortion would result - and because they were measures that were not within the remit of this ministry. Medical interventions are not a matter of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but they are a matter of the Ministry of Health which has not been consulted in this particular case. When it comes to abortion, it is known from the constitutional debate in 1990 and 1991 that this is a topic never about which there will be unity in Slovenia, that there are different views on this issue. The Constitution was adopted by a two-thirds majority. As this area is defined in the Constitution, it applies to all whether we agree on it or not. And until there is any change - and I think it will be a long time - because there will never be a two-thirds consensus in this National Assembly for such a change, it must be respected. Every authority must respect it, even if a minister thinks otherwise. A reference to this topic, the proposal on the payment of abortion came into this working document, which is supposed to be a strategy for increasing fertility, from other purposes. Although the Minister knew that the coalition had agreed at the beginning of the mandate not to touch on these topics because there was no unity in the coalition, although the Minister knew that this was not in the coalition contract, for the same reason this controversial definition of the payment of the abortion was recorded in this document before it was launched into public debate. And this document was launched by Mr Drobnic in a public debate immediately after the opposition began to predict interpolation. Indefinite, unprepared, uncoordinated with a very obvious political account, so that on an ideological subject that is further known how someone will be identified and around which it has been agreed in the coalition that it will not open up in this mandate, support will be drawn up for its function. So it was not about protecting life, as Mr Minister argued, but it was about protecting Mr Drobnič's position by exploiting a topic that is not, or that the political debate does not bring anything. In this National Assembly at political level, we can discuss the abortion of 1000 years, there will be no consensus on this, it is definitely necessary to have a professional debate to a certain extent, including an ethical debate, I absolutely have no objection to it, but I am sure that Slovenia does not need a political debate on abortion at this time. Since it will not lead anywhere, no one will gather a two-thirds majority, not for a change in either direction, nor in the other direction, when it comes to a constitutional definition. Anyone who launches this political debate in Slovenia knows exactly that it is only an ideological debate and a burning passion and that there will be no change of order. And of course it didn't take more than a few days to show up. An ideological debate has begun. The last day before I tried to find another solution, I proposed replacing Mr Drobnič, there was no broadcast in Slovenian media, not serious, not informational, not agricultural and weather forecasts that did not mention abortion. As if this is suddenly a key problem for this country before the EU Presidency at a time when we have a thousand other problems and challenges ahead of us. I ask who is in interest to share Slovenian political space in this way, to discuss a topic that is known to be impossible to reach any productive debate, let alone any changes to constitutional regulation. It's not necessary at this point either. This is totally infertile, in the past reversed, doing the same as burying the dead by voting. The coalition, which now has a responsibility to manage the country, has committed itself, between itself and even in the coalition agreement, to try to regulate these things with patience, in a way that we will come up with solutions that will be permanent, that will not be permanent, that you will vote something in this mandate, but in the next term they will put different inscriptions on graves. And on this subject, too, it took a lot of effort to limit the Minister to these frameworks when he proposed certain legislation that would not lead to anything again. What bothers me in this defense is talking about morality and referring to my own conscience, and claiming that this proposal is about protecting my life. However, those who propose to replace the Minister are said to be against life. It is not about protecting life, it is about protecting the position of minister who launched this topic at a time when he knew that interpellation was being prepared and in this way he wanted to protect his own back. The chronology of events clearly confirms this. I am sorry that the reasons for the discharge had to be clarified in very concrete terms. It would be better for everyone if it could be arranged differently, if someone were even willing to admit their mistake, we are where we are now. I suggest you support my proposal. I will propose a new candidate or candidate for this city as soon as possible. In real time, we will make up for the delay in proposing the legislation we still have to implement measures to implement economic and social reforms in this area and work will continue smoothly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u118	Thank you, Prime Minister. All those who wanted and were on the list of discussers received the floor. However, we have just less than an hour to discuss, so I will take advantage of the possibility of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and call on Members and Members to apply for an additional debate. I also inform the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Janez Drobnič, that they can apply for an additional debate by raising their hands. And I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. 32 Members and Members of Parliament and the President of the Government joined in the debate. According to our calculations, each Member will have a word for a minute and a half. At the end of the debate, as we say, we will conclude the debate with a statement by the President of the Government. Member Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u120	Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In order not to waste time, I will repeat what I have already said in my previous debate. I propose to the Minister, although I am aware that his work has been difficult, exposed and that he has done a great deal and a great deal of useful work, in the direction of reforms and in the long-term benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, that we reduce this agony and that somehow as a good policy he may change his current behaviour and facilitate the whole process and that we can start with work, offer a resignation and thus resolve this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u122	Thank you. I ask all Members present to calm down and allow Members who have applied for the debate to do so. Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. There's only one reason I signed up. Many in the hall, even more directly outside, spoke today about the possibility of early elections. On the part of the opposition, there were quite a few expressive desires. So let us put things on the real ground and just introduce you to today's Politbarometer, published on the RTV Slovenia website, after which it gets SDS 23%, SD 14%, and LDS only 12%, while the rest are distributed about as usual in these surveys. It is said that all those who have been misappreciating your pot today, all those who have helped in the past days to mutilate Slovenia at home or abroad with a lack of intolerance in one way or another and have led to absurdity that, at the invitation of Mr Vebra, the well-known official of the opposition party, there has been even a roadblock on the road by the nomadic Roma to another Romani family, which is indeed an absurd situation. All of you have done this in vain, because this survey very clearly shows one thing, this Government has support, this Government enjoys confidence, and this Government will successfully complete its work, especially in the direction of the Presidency of the European Union, of what I firmly believe is that in the opposition you are most afraid that it would prove that we are capable of leading the European Union well and thus fortifying our country in Europe, in the world, to display the quality of Slovenian culture and at the same time to take advantage of this opportunity to prove that everything that has been sent signals abroad has been politically addressed by non-reality. I'm going to vote the same way [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u124	Thank you. My friend Janko Weber, I can't give you a replica because you haven't signed into the debate box. That is why we continue on the basis of the list of debaters. I'm sorry, that's the rules. Member Franz Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. A respected choir! Today’s debate is likely to strengthen one who has listened, and perhaps one of us, in the belief that it would probably indicate what to do about the change of the Government Law. This is to avoid similar excruciating situations in the future. We are faced with the simple fact that the line of trust between the President of the Government, the First Minister, as the one that proposes an individual ministry to confirm the National Assembly, is broken. And that's a simple fact. There must be reciprocity here, both the minister's proposer and the minister, who, at the final stage of the minister's proposal, must express mutual trust and support so that such a minister can be elected so that such a minister can stand. If that's not the case, and I think that's the thing that we've spent seven hours on today, I believe that every single thing has its own purpose, so long ago in this National Assembly it's just something that needs to be done. It would be easier if the regulation in this area were different in the direction of the Prime Minister or the President of the Government to simply appoint and dismiss ministers within the framework of his mandate. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, we have the law we have, and we need to comply with the legislation in force. [[...]] But I certainly think that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u126	Your time is up, your microphone automatically goes off, you probably know that. However, Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In this short time, I will respond to two things that have been given in the debate between Members and Members. One is that the Minister was incompetent, financing non-governmental organisations, or that this funding went beyond the same criteria. I have before me a decision by the Government of the Office on equal opportunities where the Advocate of the principle of equality has found that the President or the Minister acted correctly in his decision or the Ministry in its decision on the allocation of funds to the Information Centre of Legebitr. His work or his decision does not constitute unequal treatment due to same-sex orientation. That means the Minister acted properly, the Minister acted in accordance with the law in force. I would also like to refer to the solutions provided for in the Social Protection Act. Today there were many words again about the specialists of the Theological Faculty, who were to be equally classified as professional staff, who would just do the job. All such statements based on the fact that these are the personnel sent by the RCC seem truly ideological to me. Graduates or specialists of the Theological Faculty are also graduates of the University of Ljubljana and are completely equal to the others who graduated from this university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u128	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The government is in the first serious crisis since its performance two years ago. The fact is that a few problems can no longer be managed or adequately solved. This is also evident from the statement made by the leader of the New Slovenia Group, Aloys Sok, after yesterday's meeting with the President, that the Prime Minister intends to replace three or four other ministers. In view of the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, the proposal of the Prime Minister Janez Janša will be voted on. Unlike the identical situation more than 10 years ago in this same National Assembly, which did not take place at the discretion of the then President of the Government, his proposal was rejected. Today it will also be easier because the government's proposal also supports the opposition. But if the political situation in the state isn't so idyllic, we can look back on yesterday's interpolation. While we were counting votes yesterday at the interview of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, two coalition parties have also shown visible cracks. While the opposition voted unitedly in favour of the discharge of the cultural minister. The 41 votes of the coalition yesterday are far from the parliamentary majority. That was a very serious warning to the Prime Minister, and we can call that a pirate victory. It is not our desire for the Government to act badly, but if there are no adequate staffing corrections, policy changes in several areas and a changed attitude towards the opposition's constructive proposals, the government crisis will deepen and the coalition cracks will increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u130	Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't spend all my time. I will be brief and I hope that even a sailboat, and of course also understandable for those who do not want to understand why today is good, wise to support the discharge of Minister Drobnic. In my introductory presentation, I also mentioned in the debate the bare facts which bear witness to this, not only that Minister Drobnič acted poorly, it is harmful that under this Government or under Mr Drobnič's ministry a poor social policy was implemented, which in certain ideological matters came back even in 1928. I gave you a specific case. But today, even by the mouth of the President of the Government, we have heard that Mr Janez Drobnič, in his role as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, spoke false things or lies, respected colleagues and colleagues. Is such a minister truly trustworthy? I will, of course, tell Mr Capudre, who said in the first part that it is not worth replicating my debate. It's really not worth it, because it's proving that I was right all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u132	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! In this short period of time, I would like to say just a few words, because something was said about the asbestos law as well. I think that this Government and the Ministry of Labour have been doing a lot of work with this law in this mandate, and it will also be, because a procrastination veto has been voted in the State Council and the law is coming back to the National Assembly. My view is that this law has been substantially improved in that first version, it is said, the law that is in force today, by including all those who, by using asbestos cement products in any way, have engaged in their work. However, he also experienced improvements in the current, latest variant if, of course, it is confirmed once again, by allowing compensation to be obtained also for those surrounding residents who have never worked in asbestos cement production. It is also not negligible that the date of implementation has been postponed from 1.1.2008 to 1.1.2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u134	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u135	Have a nice hello again! I will say again that in my opinion, Minister Petty Officer took his work very seriously and tried to do it very well. However, it seems from today's debate that it is he who is responsible for everything that is wrong in Slovenia, perhaps even outside Slovenia, and that the happy Slovenia will breathe tomorrow, when there is no more who cares that everything is bad in Slovenia. New Slovenia was the strongest member of this coalition. It's a shame her power is lost today. [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u136	Thank you. Member Eva Irgle has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's too late to recognize this exchange for a while, but in this minute and a half, there's something else that's worth saying again. Social dialogues, distinguished ministers, were foreign to you. You even said that if you can't make a deal, you'll decide for yourself, just like you think you're right. Of course, trading with the dying was also your activity. I'd ask you not to speak on the phone if you're told. At least so much culture-respected minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u138	Mr. Minister, you're still in the National Assembly. Please listen. You continue, please, Comrade Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u139	What some Members say is just an apology they write to themselves. If the asbestos law were good, the State Council wouldn't veto it. And it wasn't you, but it was DeSUS, and what he proposed was almost all deleted, except for one item that improved this law for the past. As far as history goes, it's just that, Mr. Secretary, it's been a while. Blood isn't water. And what you've been doing, defending the collaboration over and over, knowingly ripped off grants that were legal, fighters, that will be recorded in history's analies. You know, our country, although new and young, is based on anti-fascism, you've forgotten that all along since you were Minister. If we forget only the fact that you have defended collaboration, you have also allocated resources from the state budget, which have not been justified, you already deserve to be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u140	Thank you, you. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are very similar. Both inexcusable and ignorant in the formation of partnerships and in the search for alliances. The President of the Government accuses the opposition of escaping the Roma issue and the fears associated with this issue. I already told Minister Simoniti yesterday that all the parties have some butter on their heads about the fact that in local environments from one party they are calling for protests, from the other party sending the Roma family to the dump, etc. But he forgets the President of the government that he is one of the most responsible, that this problem is what it is. Not least three years ago, when he led an anti-Roma event in front of the government, along with his colleague Jelinčič, and not least when he allowed that Roma family to be moved from Ambrus. There is no skill in finding allies, but I will not plant this government's foot, I will follow what my colleague Han said on behalf of the Group of Members, we will vote in favour of resolution, because, of course, Minister Drobnič does not deserve your support, and, last but not least, he is the primary culprit for the social dialogue stopping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u142	Thank you. Procedural has the word of colleague Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know if that's possible, but my proposal would be to stop this debate and ask the parliamentarians once again who they really want to talk about it. My impression is that the SDS colleagues are just as far away from the debate as the Prime Minister. So, nothing. They sign up for the word so others don't get it. It can be said that it's possible that they don't know what they're doing, that they've checked in and they've changed their minds in a moment. But I think it's a clear trick and an abuse of the rules of procedure. Parliament is aimed at people who want to debate, not those who want to stop the debate. Colleagues from the ruling party want to do just that, and I don't think it's good to assist them. It would be just as good for the Prime Minister to come back and listen to this. Even now he's recited and gone, I don't know where, I don't care, but it's humiliating to Parliament. If he had apologized before that he was at lunch and I don't know where, and he listened to everything, I'm not going to say myself where I saw him at that time, because it would sound like what kids do in kindergarten, but in fact, the President of the Government must be able to listen to Parliament and be able to answer that. I believe he didn't want to talk to Minister Petty Officer. He wouldn't talk to him for eight months. However, it is unacceptable that he does not wish to sit in Parliament if he has already convened a meeting of Parliament. And if the coalition and Minister Drobnic allow this to happen, I do not think that Parliament can allow Mr Janša, and if he is the president of the coalition, he treats Parliament the way he treats Minister Drobnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u144	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. As well as I do, you also know that it is the right of every Member to apply or to give up. What's the point of quitting, you know as well as you probably know all 90. But this is still the case, and I hope that it will remain the responsibility of every Member for a long time. We continue the debate. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very sorry that Mr Aurelio Juri uses a statement that has been recorded and used in the media, a word that has been misused, and an unused correction which has been published in the same medium and where it is written in the correction in fact what has been said. But that's his problem, because he's using what he's given to feed. As for today's debate, I am sorry that we have spent so much time in this debate. Surely we could have done something more useful at that time, and I also think that the outcome I am expecting from today's debate could have been achieved substantially earlier and without consideration at the National Assembly. The fact is that there has been a lack of confidence between the Prime Minister and the individual Minister, the fact is that the President of the Government is not only responsible for his work, but also responsible for the work of the whole Government and is also responsible for the work of each of the ministers of this Government. And if there is a lack of confidence in the relationship between the President and the Minister, which means that the creative work between them will be difficult in the future, I see no other option than to leave such a minister behind, so I will also support the proposal of the President of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u146	Thank you. Member Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. There's been a lot of talk these days. Fortunately, we did not have as many hours or 15 hours as we had yesterday, and the Slovenian people were greatly saved. But let me give you another personal experience. I think that Mr Petty Officer was the victim of internal clans at the Ministry, which unfortunately at that time was not able to identify, let alone break. At the Ministry they have one senior official, Uroš Pikla, who was a witness in the Friday trial, was a chronic witness, gave an alibi to the first accused, but the alibi was pretty much torn apart. And that is not the problem, the problem is that at this trial this gentleman clearly and loudly said who he hangs out with and who he's friends with. She is friends with people who are part of this orthodox criminal underground in Maribor. And that is bad, and it is also bad that this gentleman was framed by Mr Drobnič and he further framed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which she appointed as a member of the Council of the Centre for Training, Work and Protection in Montenegro, Koroskem. This is my personal experience. Otherwise, the dismissal or the replacement of the minister is something completely [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] normal. [[...]] The minister who went into this game and crossed the Ministry's threshold should be counting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u148	Thank you. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has picked up an old tactic. Instead of answering the questions raised, he attacked the opposition, the media, intellectuals and the international public for being guilty of the bad situation in Slovenia. We already know this from the opposition times of Mr Janša. On purpose, however, he avoided the serious issue of secret meetings. He did the same thing as the minister we caught on a lie last night. He put Minister Drobnič on a lie. "I don't know anything about this, let Minister Petty Officer say." I hope that we will allow and listen to the President of the Government to say something about these meetings to Minister Petnik below. These meetings, discussed by Minister Drobnič, did not refer to his resolution, but rather to some other situations in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u150	Thank you. Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dearly present, I see that the 45-minute teaching hour received by the coalition by its boss has been delayed, because otherwise I do not know how to explain all the cancellations, such as the fact that someone has run out of text and that what we said in the Slovenian National Party has finally been proven since the very beginning of Minister Drobnic's ministry. They argued that the laws were not in line with the social partners, that the Minister was acting in an unconstitutional manner, that he was increasing social injustices in that country, and that, last but not least, he was trying to influence state television, which he was trying to do with the strategy. I hope some of you have also remembered that when you adopted the strategy, you appointed the Strategy for Increase Birth in this country as just a piece of paper written by someone. I don't know if this government, this minister can afford to hang on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a file written by someone and written a strategy on it. This is a document, and we've also heard here that it's a document, that it's not just a piece of paper. Believe me, your ascension today will only benefit this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u152	Thank you. Member Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I am surprised at the whole debate today that Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy have found for the first time today many beautiful words, positive and commendable assessments of the work of Minister Drobnik. Maybe we could call it "never heard of it until today." I think this would not be the case if today we discussed the interpretation against Minister Drobnič, which was intended to be submitted by the Slovenian National Party, but we left speculation. I myself will support the proposal of the President of the Government, because I think that each leader must have a team with him that he trusts and with whom he can work well and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u154	Thank you. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I will also support the proposal of the President of the Government. Among other things, because I stated as the reason for the Group that the Minister in the budget proposal had allocated funds to build domestic capacities. And in this sense, I want to correct the statement made by my colleague Uhanova, who thanked him for giving Trebnje 175 million, that is half of that investment, which is of course not true. The fact that this is stated in the explanation of the amendment of the coalition is due to all four coalition parties that have agreed that half of these funds will be earmarked for domestic upgrading. If we were to wait for the Minister, this would not be the case, since in the revised version of the budget under the Network Home item, the increased funds that we achieved in the first phase with the joint amendment were again interpreted as means for adaptation. So I have to say that although he spoke about the protection of the elderly, it did not go along with his actions that he was simultaneously eliminating funds for homes and disposing of funds for home aid, which, of course, could eventually lead to uncontrollable [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] problems, given that the number of older people is increasing sharply and at the same time a problem in this area. [[...]] But it's just one thing, and it's only right that everyone knows what's true in that sense and it's true. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u156	Thank you. Member Boyan Starman has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Stana Pike has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u157	I would like to stress once again that today's debate, particularly with regard to the opposition, was somehow two-faced. The fact is that the results of this government are very good, that a series of changes have been made, a type of administrative action. And just as it happened in France that they sent Meraga to retire, so this government sent one Miraga somewhere and saved the citizens about 3 billion, 4 billion a year. In short, all these discussions about the results you were talking about were actually inappropriate. It is, however, the fact that it is the responsibility of the President of the Government to propose a change in the position of Minister if he so assesses and the President of the Government has thus assessed. And I hope that this proposal will then be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u158	Thank you. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that in the LDS Group today, we have made a very large number of criticisms at the expense of Minister Drobnik's work. But it is true that we have felt great discomfort both with President Janša and with you. And this is clear, for all and also the Slovenian public see you washing dirty laundry in public's eyes, and the discomfort is clear. However, I am pleased that Mr. Janša has returned, who has previously sought in his debate the culprits for spreading the Roma question everywhere and I hope that he has read the Slovenian newspapers today, and in one of these columns he writes: "... The fact is, Mr Janez Janša has consistently manipulated the lowest emotional legions and nationalist ideology throughout his sitting in the opposition. Let us only remember the era of the era of erased and his words before parliament when he adopted the first protesters against the Roma who were nothing but the beginnings of today's village guards. Now that he's in power, of course he's trying to change his hair. Too late. But where has power changed during this time and the traces of the harvesting of the fruits of long-lasting opposition labor, you have now."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u160	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. But what you needed was written by our poet. Talks about children, of course, children are also part of the ministry we are talking about today and the minister. But I would use this term for this debate today, because I think it really wasn't necessary, and I am also leaning towards what my colleague has already said, that if we had different legislation regarding the appointment of the Government and then also on the reverse procedure, it probably wouldn't be. This, however, will be reinforced by the fact that if this meeting were really not necessary to be necessary, then we would not be talking about a lot of things at this meeting, which is possible at this meeting and this area does not. And because there has been a lot of talk about the problems, especially about the Roma, I am also surprised that all of this has accumulated right now, both those mayors who are calling for barricades and thereby making trouble at home, like those who are bus-traveling across Europe and are muddying Slovenia and boasting about it in front of the cameras. And if nothing else, then this debate was useful at least in that you have not seen those who may be broadcasting this show, how happy some are when Slovenia is muddy, perhaps now you have been warned by those who have warned you about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u162	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. If I give as a Member this long debate point on and on our parliamentary side, then it is not true that the social state would fall apart, on the contrary, it is even stronger. Even as far as legal certainty is concerned in this country, it is increasingly better, as evidenced by the decline in judicial backlogs. And here, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to tell you that, to the opposition, this joy, regardless of the result of today's vote, that this government coalition will fall apart because of the suspension of the minister, we will certainly not do so. We will remain part of this government coalition and continue to carry out what we have committed, even after today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u164	Thank you. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The President of the Government, Mr. Janez Janša, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u165	Nice greeting for everyone, Mr. Skull. I think that I have been in this Chamber in the last two years, comparatively, for much longer than all the Presidents of Liberal Democracy in the role of Presidents of the Government in previous mandates, and I have no problem answering these questions. As for some of the statements that have now been made by some members of the opposition, nor does it make sense, I would not like to go to the same level, not personally, nor in the inn. I believe this kind of darkness comes in handy. Ideological themes have always been those that have provided beautiful or excellent electoral results to some political parties in the last 12 years, and we have learned a lot from this. But I don't understand that yesterday and today, so much negative energy is concentrated on some points that will bring nothing. I suggest you save some of this energy for the next two years, six or twelve; I think it'll be a long one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u166	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Procedural? Here you go, fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. So, at the beginning of the meeting, Mr Drobnič, inter alia, explained why he was dissatisfied with this material relating to his resolution, opened a question with the following text: "All civil servants and officials are committed to working in accordance with the law, responsible and conscientiously and in accordance with the instructions of the people of the friendly administration," not to quote everything, "I know that in some cases they are very conscientious, because there are even records of informal and secret talks written with all due diligence, precision and all the necessary elements of the official document." As I myself understood his speech and his magnetogram, he says the same thing, it does not refer to meetings regarding his resolution, and black was later something about within coalition communication. This is really not an interest in Parliament's coalition communication, and I'm not interested in it if it's not going to hurt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u168	Mr Školč, I am obliged to cut into your debate, taking advantage of the possibility of a procedural proposal. I won't let you continue. As you know, the Minister had the right to apply for the floor, he did not exercise this right and neither of us has the right to request any reply from Minister Drobnik. These are the rules of the game adopted in the previous term, endorsed in this mandate and we will stick to them. Of course, I am also concluding the debate and taking your word. We're moving on. In accordance with Rule 201 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: "Master Janez Drobnic shall be relieved of his duties as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. On the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he conducts ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister." Explanation of voice. Please apply for applications on behalf of the members of the groups. Here you go, please. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. Ambassador Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to make some conclusions on behalf of the LDS. Today we have heard again one long discussion of how and how the government works, the current government. What are, in fact, fundamental knowledge, very interesting. Today, we have heard from the President of the Government that nothing unusual is happening in Slovenia, that the situation is regulated, that the rule of law is functioning. I don't know which country the current Prime Minister was referring to, but I don't have that feeling. I have no feeling when the Dnevnik opens up when the TV opens, watching what happens every day at various locations in Slovenia, when the police beat Slovenian citizens when they set up village guards. I don't know if the previous government had anything to do with these village guards, in our time, I have to say, it wasn't. It was during World War II, and now we have them again, so I'd say it's in this diameter of so-called "Realitatverlust". Apparently, the President of the Government has been sick of the so-called disease of "loss of a sense of reality" also as regards the problems Slovenia has abroad. This is not the fault of journalists, it is not those who write, not domestic or foreign journalists, but those who create this atmosphere in Slovenia and who are responsible for the functioning of this country. By the way, let me say that in the Group of Members, it only strengthens us in our conviction here today that we were right when we said that nothing would happen after this withdrawal. The Prime Minister of the Government said that the government does not renounce the laws adopted, so the head of the parliamentary group said. If everything is going to be the same, then why are you abandoning the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs? You'll leave all the laws, everything that's been adopted is fine, but the minister's not okay. Apparently not because he was working, but because you want to introduce yourself to the public. So once again, in the LDS Club, we are convinced that the government's policy in this area is poor, that it is inadequate, we do not support the policy of Minister Drobnič, not the policy of the government, not the policy of Prime Minister Janez Janša. That is why we have decided not to vote against its resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u170	Thank you. Member Aurelio Juri shall have the floor in terms of the presentation of the positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u171	On behalf of the Group of Members. Despite the fact that the proposer of discharge does not encourage us to support his proposal, he is expected to design it today; and it is evident after all this debate that he needs a partnership for the shooting. He attacked, he criticized our client. Nevertheless, we will not fall into the temptations that have arisen in this, nor will we succumb to these temptations, and will stick to our own sovereign assessment at the expense of Minister Drobnic's work. Our greatest offense concerns its incompetence and conflict in social dialogue and the strengthening of social partnership. When the interpolation had already been announced, it would have been easy and easy to support his resolution. Well, the Prime Minister of the Government has outran the interpellation, tabled the proposal to dismiss Minister Drobnič, and saved us this kind of meeting. Our assessment remains as announced at the beginning of this debate. I repeat, the temptations that have arisen do not affect us, and we will vote in favour of the proposal to resolve Minister Drobnič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u172	Thank you. I am opening a procedure for the application of explanations to Members and Members of Parliament. Here you go, please. Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. I have asked for procedural advice before, and you have overlooked me because I actually wanted to give an answer to Mr Grimes, who appointed me in the previous debate, but I will not go in this direction now and use this institute of explanations of vote. I would like to say that the government's behaviour, which has been detected in the last period, certainly has no support in Kočevska, because everyone feels threatened at the moment we see a police vehicle in motion. This is something that is certainly not good, and to a large extent is Minister Drobnič, because he did not react to the fact that we already have 526 Roma in the Municipality of Kočevje, and he warned the Government not to solve this problem in such an uncontrollable or extremely controlled way, through military action in police units to move this family to Kočevsko. I myself have decided to step in with the locals and try to establish a dialogue with the Government. That wasn't there. I just didn't pick up this path, like my colleague Tanko, who was hiding from this problem. We want to solve the problems, and I hope that this resolution will also alert us to these problems, to talk about how dialogue solves these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u174	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u175	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! When Mr President of the Government spoke earlier about the negative energy that is in this room, I was a little concerned. Well, then I saw that he only looked at his MPs and the closest coalition parties, so I stopped having a bad conscience. Of course, I am in favour of a negative assessment by the Government, the President of the Government, the coalition, because the proposal to dismiss the Minister is in fact a negative assessment, an assessment of my own image. But I'm still disgusted with the way it started - with the ultimatum, the ugly way to deal with a man. And for this reason ye shall divide this misery, which ye have brewed for yourselves, and shall divide it for yourselves, and eat it yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u176	Thank you. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u177	I believe that the Members of the coalition and the President of the Government would be more responsible if, when they had the opportunity, the President of the Government himself, they voted in favour of amending the Constitution rather than the law establishing the procedure for appointing ministers. You just didn't want to do that, and now you have to be at least right to this council to acknowledge the role it has under the Constitution, to discuss and vote on your proposals or to prepare them yourself. The matter may indeed be tragic today to look like we are supporting the government when we are talking about the need to replace the minister. I am not making any illusions that no action by Minister Drobnic or other ministers, who, by the way, have ever trusted me in these two years, can do so unless they first get the President's permission or anyone who sends the President's message to a certain minister's office and, of course, to a certain minister. The same as I have discussed in the debate, I also believe now: The trifle is in the place it occupies, the error has already been known for its policy and, of course, it has not been able to perform differently than it is; it has only radicalised what it can perform as an operative, given what it has advocated as a parliamentarian in the past four years. And because of this belief, it is necessary, and because of my conscience, I will support the proposal for a solution, because I think this should have happened earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u178	Thank you. Is there still a desire to explain? We're reopening the debate. Here you go. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I have already said in the debate this morning, I will certainly support the proposal to dismiss Minister Drobnič, not because the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, has proposed this. He holds part of the co-responsibility of the Ministry, bears part of its co-responsibility also because he has already found that the Minister is doing a bad job in February, and he has not proposed a discharge by November. He proposed only now that the intervention by the Slovenian National Party had been announced. I will support the solution because, during his ministry, the Minister has interpreted the social dialogue in his own way, interpreting in an ultimate way: whether you will talk and accept the results - such as I wish, or whether this conversation will not and will not be done in the National Assembly with a coalition acting as an oil roller, we will do everything we agree outside Parliament. The dialogue's stopped. I'm sure, or at least I hope that after today, it will continue. This was also promised by the President of the Government when he spoke with representatives of the unions, but let us wait until tomorrow. He's not going to believe this government anymore. I therefore support the discharge of Minister Drobnik for failing to respect social dialogue, the social partnership. A lot of effort, a lot of time has been put into the past mandate, in recent years, in the fact that this agreement has been formed. Today this agreement is no longer and it is time for a replacement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u180	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers! The consequences of poor work, sloppy work and, of course, the irresponsible work of Minister Drobnic will be visible in the future. The government will have to deal with this, and I believe that, Prime Minister, you will still have to defend yourself because things will escalate in this area. Why I would be happy to support this proposal that is yours. I'd like the interpolation to take place naturally. You have acted wisely, and in some ways you have overtaken us, because the distinguished Minister, for the time being, has not seen social demands, has not seen 100,000 unemployed, has not seen 40,000 hungry, and in fact, on the brink of survival, who are fighting for every day, the Slovenes and the Slovenes, of course, because of the guilt of the country with the deadly disease. He ignored you too, and there are children among them. He did not respect the tradition and constitutional rights of Slovenia, which is written that Slovenia is based on antifascism, advocated even collaboration and also earmarked budgetary resources for those who turned their backs on their own people in crucial moments, and some of you also supported it. And finally, because he also caused material damage and because of his negligence, I believe he also violated the law, the Constitution and the law of certain tasks many times, he deserves to be replaced before. This is, as I said earlier, much too late and the consequences, which are now merely indicated, will be clearly visible tomorrow. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, if, later on, the Minister will also have a material responsibility for the damage that will result from his sloppy and unscrupulous work. That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u182	Thank you. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. President! I look forward to the moment when Mr Petty Officer will no longer be Minister of Labour, etc. Yesterday and the previous day, we listened when we discussed Mr Simoniti that we had not chosen the right one. True, the devastation in individual areas is even greater. For example, agriculture, for example, on external matters and also on internal matters. Mr. President! I promise you in advance if you propose these three ministers for a discharge that I will gladly and without discussion support them to leave this Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u184	Thank you. Member Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. It is not inconceivable that there is a total erosion of ethical and moral principles in the National Assembly, calls for non-compliance with constitutional and legal standards, and that some who have so much protection of the rule of law and calls for equal opportunities to take such racist measures and also take such racist decisions. I must say that I am extremely disappointed with my colleague, who has appointed me here, but do not simply make sure that the rule of law and constitutional principles are protected and that racist measures are not taken only when a commission has come to look at a possible location for the settlement of one of the Roma groups. I expect that, as soon as possible, my colleague will call on the Commission for petitions and equal opportunities to inform the European Commissioner for Human Rights that she will inform the European Ombudsman that she will invite Mr Hanžk and the candidate for Human Rights Ombudsman in Slovenia to meet to respond both in the Group of Members, the President of the Group of Members and also the President of the Party. In short, we expect from you because you are so principled about all the minor problems that you will also react properly here. I believe that the problem caused by your colleague Weber is significantly worse than the marital examination of the leg, and no one has reacted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u186	It is probably not in the interest of any Member, no Member or Government representatives to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly for half an hour. I will not give a procedural one, my colleague Tanko has expressed his conviction, and if you want to argue with his conviction, do so in your free time. But I'm asking you, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Comrade Lakhovnik, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are assessing the work of Minister Drobnič, then we must be objective and acknowledge that, of course, it was not bad. There were some positive measures or intentions, but as they say: With good intentions, the path to hell is repeatedly pushed. Labour market reform is needed, including some of the reforms of social transfers that are announced, a single social transfer card, and measures that are positive and, as far as this is concerned, at least energy, some reformary, should be recognised to Minister Petnik. However, the fact is that, in his work, he was inconsistent with the fact that, at the beginning of his mandate, he had already resulted in a single measure of full indexation of social transfers, which was extremely problematic, which was a step in the very opposite direction, such as all the reform measures of the other European Union countries. Of course, it is difficult if on the one hand we have 100% indexation of pensions with salaries, on the other hand to tighten then with social assistance, with workers, with transportation to work; in short, here he lost the red thread at the beginning. And the fact is, if we talk about the downsides, the biggest downsides are the conduct of social dialogue, which was not appropriate, that it did not prove here either as patient, that it did not show the ability to guide and coordinate social dialogue, and in particular that it showed a significant degree of intolerance. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs must also be tolerant and tolerant of minorities, including the so-called marginal groups, and I must say that in December 2005 the President of the Government said something that I assessed as a courageous and fair gesture when he said "there are departments where businesses run ministers more than ministers". From this point of view, of course, I also expect further reconstruction of the Government, and because I believe that this is the beginning, of course, I will take this measure, this confidence to the Minister, too. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u188	Thank you. We can move on to decision-making. Another round of explanations of voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. At the outset, I reiterate my support for the discharge of Minister Janez Drobnic. In fact, Prime Minister Janez Janša admitted today that the government's policy in this area has been poor in the past two years or that the policy has proved to be incorrect. Dear Prime Minister, you carry, hand in hand, part of your responsibility, an important part of your responsibility for this poor, uncoordinated, harmful policy in the field of broader social policy and will not be able to hide behind the "sacrifice lamb" forever. In view of the fact that the Slovenian National Party has indeed announced and acceded to writing an interpretation against the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because irregularities, poor work over the past two years have accumulated more than that. Given that there have been speculations in the public that the Slovenian National Party has approached the writing of interpretation with the support or instructions of the President of the Government in this place, I am denying any such speculation and I am also explaining that the President of the Government has no political influence in this area. However, I am pleased and happy to reiterate my support for the proposal for the discharge of Minister Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u190	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Drobnic, I have already told you that I will support the proposal for your resolution, but that from the initiatives that come from my perspective on your work, unfortunately I regret that, with you leaving, the policy of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will probably not change so much that it goes in the direction of social justice, as it is written in the Lisbon Strategy. I don't have to listen to whisperers tell me what to do. If this is a custom in another group of Members, if accepting orders is something others can accept; in the Group of Members and in the Party of the Social Democrats, each is responsible for his or her actions and acts according to his or her beliefs. Therefore, I would expect that, since the President of the National Assembly is also coming from this party, at my repeated request that the Rules of Procedure be respected, those who are currently chairing the meeting should also ensure that explanations of vote remain an explanation of vote, not a personal attack on the one who cannot be defended and has not been the subject of any consideration of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u192	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u193	One year and nine months ago, Mr Janez said at his first press conference that the first objective of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - Mr Janez Janša said this - was to increase the birth rate in Slovenia. A year later, he wrote to the Minister that he was not satisfied with his work. Nine months later, he came to the National Assembly and said that he needed to be resolved. You'll be two years away on Sunday, since we swore an oath to the new government. What did you do in two years? In particular, you have done a very large "piar" action and considerable confusion in Slovenia. Minister Janez Drobnic, Minister, is only guilty of taking the framework of economic and social reforms too seriously. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Mr Janez Janša, has unanimously adopted all its laws, the ruling coalition has confirmed all its laws here, contrary to a series of amendments that we have opposed. And now that these laws have negative effects, it was necessary to find the victim - and this is Mr. Janez. I regret that this is not the first John of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u194	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the discharge of Minister Drobnik for the reasons I have already stated in the debate. Speaking of poor social dialogue, Mr Drobnic, I ask myself, Prime Minister of the Government, whether you do not feel responsible for this, because it was you who set the example in public that this dialogue was not established more thoroughly. Of course, now that you are saying that this social dialogue has not been, and you are putting Minister Drobnič as the main culprit, you will have a brief opportunity, Prime Minister Janša, to prove that when we vote on the veto on the asbestos law, that the situation has indeed changed and that you will listen to those who are most Tangorized by this law. On the other hand, that's all I want to say. When you spoke today about the fact that Minister Drobnič presented a strategy for increasing fertility, which does not have support for you or in the Government, I would only remind you, Mr President, whether you do not know his views as to how he expressed himself about the Law on Infertility with Biomedical Assistance, that we should not understand that he acts as a racist, but that such a law could mean that seeds of any other race could be imported here that would spread. When we talk about how to encourage births, when we talk about whether young people want to have children, it is necessary to help them through Mr Petty Officer and to raise taxpayers. These are his words that speak of themselves. And I am surprised, Mr President, that today, when you evaluate this strategy for the acceleration of births, you are trying to pin everything on him alone, because you have appointed him Minister and if you did not know about these views, you have certainly already made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u196	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u197	I, too, have always had problems with the policy of Mr Janez Drobnic and Janez Janša on the issue of work, family and so on. In short, I was critical of the work of Minister Drobnič at the time when John Janša, the Prime Minister of the Government, was not critical of him. For when he was asked how he would deal with his ministers and how he valued their work, he always said when he noticed that they were doing bad, he would stop them. When he noticed that Mr Drobnic was doing badly, he arrived in November with this proposal. But in November, he said that Minister Petty Officer had been working badly since March. And now we're wondering why he didn't give that grade earlier. But in November, there was a strategy where public research showed that more than 70% of people thought they disagreed with it. But you were, Mr Janša, asked what you thought about this strategy - you said it was just a draft. And if only a draft which has not yet been addressed by the Government, such a draft can be harmonised. And such a draft could be coordinated by your Minister of Health, because it has been said today that this is not the area of Mr Drobnič. In short, you are so inconsistent in this explanation, Mr Janez Janša, that I do not understand whether this is a conspiracy that we are always used to with you, at least in theory, or whether it is a disagreement that I am not sufficiently committed to in some secret documents, is not clear. And from this point of view today the credibility of Drobnik has fallen, which you will also support without my voice, but the credibility of the Prime Minister - even today, yesterday, today that we are not talking about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u198	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear guests, Members and Members of Parliament! Good evening! We're in the moment of "being or not, that's the question." And if not, then don't be, which means Mr. Minister will be a member of the National Assembly in a few moments. You're actually a tragic figure, Minister. According to my own assessment, as far as I assess the work of the Government, and I am quite sitting in this Parliament and also reading newspapers, you are not the weakest member of this government. With stress, you can see five more ministers who have been doing inappropriately worse in the field of marriage, who have had even greater conflicts with people, and today are not the subject of this treatment. But that's your business, within the government and within the coalition. I think the weak member of the government is that they can't talk inside and within. You have in the government at state expense to the secretary who regulates the relationship within the coalition, but you have talked, forgive the expression, like some phantom, even through the media. No colleagues have seen anything, and this indicates the weakness or weakness of the government. However, I resent you, Mr Minister, that you did not know how to talk about what the Prime Minister is right, with the interested and professional public; and, on the other hand, if I consider your work, I can find that some of the marriage solutions you have brought are such that they will bring woe to the poor. You didn't know how to balance this place. That is why I will support the Prime Minister and I will vote in favour of your release.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u200	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u201	Thank you. Let me add to this, as I have said before, that I will vote in favour of the discharge of Minister Drobnik for his sake, if I so call it, of partnership irresponsibility. It would be best, of course, when he was invited to step down, simply to give up and save us today’s meeting. By not accepting this invitation, he also began a dangerous game with only the government. Perhaps as an opposition Member, I would be happy to see the Government move forward, but if opposition Members voted against the resolution today, it would be very crumbling. I do not think that this is a responsible action by a member of the Government, who should also ensure its stability. On this occasion, let me once again tell you who we are talking about and once again to draw on the plan of the fire of intolerance that has taken place in Slovenia, that this fire, when some of us also attribute it to our customers, is a fire where we are all harmless or we are not unsullied. There are responsibilities in each party, but let us not forget that this fire was made in the final phase in Ivančna Gorica and then spread elsewhere. In Ivančna Gorica, however, you have fellow Democrats of your mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-01-SDZ4-Izredna-24.ana.u202	Thank you. We can end with an explanation. Thank you. I'll read the proposal again. Mag. Janez Drobnič discharges himself as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs under Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and carries out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 7. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] Based on the outcome of the vote, I find it to be mag. Janez Drobnic is relieved of his duties as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I thank him for his work so far and wish him all the best in the future. In doing so, Members and Members shall inform me that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, has informed me on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and I quote: "In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, instead of the Minister who has ceased his duties with the discharge of today, will be temporarily acting as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, from 1.12. this year. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy." We haven't finished our session yet. Please, Members and Members, take your seats back, including representatives of the Government, Minister Visjak. In the light of what has just been adopted and mentioned, the National Assembly notes, for the first time, that it was a mag. Janez Drobnič, relieved of his duties as Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs today in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, resumes his duties as Member. Another time. In this connection, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, he shall cease to act as a Member of the Magi. Franz Capuder, who performed it instead of a member of the Magi. Janez Drobnič at the time he served as Minister. That's what you're doing. I thank Capudra for his quality and effective work in the framework of the National Assembly. [[Let's hear it.]] Before I conclude this agenda item and the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, let me just inform you. Thanks to the conference Model of the European Parliament of Young People, which will be in this Chamber tomorrow, I ask you to clear all the materials with a table in the hall. I hereby conclude the 24th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
