ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! It is 9 a.m., so I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk, Mag. Milan M. Squeakle, Ljubo Germich, mag. Your Clavora, mag. Janez Kramberger, Breda Pecan and Alojz Sok. We're moving to 33. Period of the day - This is first of all a proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, EPA 1088-IV. We have five hours and 55 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I also welcome the Minister with my team. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members with first-signed William Trofenic requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, that is to say to Minister Dr. Žagar for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the past period, especially in recent years before this mandate, the situation in the area of local community funding has deteriorated significantly for the vast majority of municipalities. A number of tasks have been delegated to local communities. In doing so, no additional financial resources were provided. Thus, for the majority of municipalities, the possibility of carrying out development tasks has been largely reduced. The government immediately approached the solution of the situation, including with the favor of this national assembly. This stopped the transfer of additional tasks without adequate financial coverage. A 10% increase in the budget balance for 2005 and an additional 4.5 in the 2006 budget, which improves the financial position of the majority of municipalities, was ensured. In 2005, this National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on Community Financing, which provided municipalities with additional development funds. You have before you a new proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, which brings about further significant changes in the funding system of municipalities. The funding system of municipalities contained in the proposed law is based on the principle of equality before the law and the principle of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The law ensures the equality of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and their municipalities in the financing of tasks provided by municipalities under the law. The principle of financial autonomy of municipalities has also been applied. In order to eliminate the unjustified differences between municipalities and the unequal situation of municipalities caused by the current domestic method of distribution of the income of municipalities on the share of income, it was necessary to amend this way. At the same time, a change in the way in which municipalities' revenues are allocated requires an increase in the share of the tax derogations, i.e. taxes which are the income of the State, and the State grants them to the municipalities as their autonomous source of funding. The appropriate use of the municipality, in accordance with the proposed law, shall cover an adequate amount of resources to finance those tasks of the municipality which are subject to sectoral laws and are therefore required to do so in the interest of its population. The calculation of appropriate spending is based on the average costs of municipal budgets and is the same for all municipalities. The appropriate consumption of municipalities will be fully financed from the revenue from the decommissioned state taxes after the 5-year transitional period in which appropriate spending is also financed from part of the autonomous sources of funding of municipalities. During the transitional period until the full implementation of the new five-year funding system of municipalities will increase the revenue of municipalities from decommissioned state taxes each year. At the same time, revenues from their own sources of funding will remain to the municipalities. For the law provides for taxes and other incomes of municipalities, which are their own source of funding for a municipality in which it does not interfere. It thus ensures the financial autonomy of municipalities in financing those tasks, programmes and projects which are autonomously determined by their rules and decisions. The proposed funding system is non-discriminatory and provides equal opportunities for all municipalities to finance their tasks. A few other key points of the new law. The proposed method of determining the appropriate consumption is the same for all congregations. It takes into account the specificities of the municipality, as regards the number of people living in the municipality, the surface, the length of towns or towns where they are under 15 years of age and over 65 years of age. However, it does not allow for the determination of the percentages of appropriate consumption intended to finance the individual tasks of the municipality. These shares are the content of the remuneration methodology. This is the appropriate amount of funding to finance the tasks of the municipalities set out in the Law on the Specific Areas to be determined by the Government under the Regulation. The fee, which is the basic data for ensuring the appropriate consumption of the municipality, of the total eligible expenditure of all municipalities and of the share of the tax and revenue of the municipality concerned, will be fixed in future by law for the implementation of the budget and will be coordinated with the associations of municipalities as representatives of the municipalities. The bill also provides municipalities with co-financing of individual tasks, projects, investments from the state budget. In particular, co-financing of individual tasks and projects where a wider public interest has been identified by law or regulation issued under law. Co-financing of guaranteed rights of national communities and Roma communities. Co-financing of investments in local public infrastructure and other investments relevant to the needs of the population of the municipality, amounting to 6% of the total eligible consumption over a transitional period of five years. According to the Ministry’s programmes, the country’s development objectives are annually at the level of harmonised proposals from the ministries and, last but not least, the co-financing of the Joint Municipal Administrations and the promotion of the integration of municipalities. The law maintains a system of municipal debt, as adopted in the 2005 amendments, and eliminates unnecessary duplication of administrative procedures for obtaining financial consent. The law also provides for a transitional period of five years in which it will be gradually enforced. This section sets out the amount of the fee for 2007 and 2008, which has been established on the basis of a statistical analysis of the costs of municipal budgets for the tasks of municipalities established by the laws for individual areas of the previous period. The remuneration for the following years of the transitional period from 9 to 12 will already be determined by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the government regulation, which will further determine the tasks to be taken into account in the calculation of the fee and the methodology for calculating the fee. The congregations will certainly be involved. The transitional period also takes into account the gradual increase in income, in the period 2007-2012, in the account of a reduced share of own tax resources and compensation for the use of building land in appropriate consumption. The transitional period also covers the financing of public institutions in the field of culture, the founders of which are municipalities to be implemented from the state budget until 1.1.2009, when the municipalities for most of these institutions will be given the opportunity to co-finance by the provinces. And during the transitional period, co-financing of the family assistant for the 2007 and 2008 financial years is also covered. In fact, until the landscapes are established. The draft law also covers the consequences of changes in tax legislation. The 2007 budget and 2008 budget plan also already provide the necessary additional resources to close the financial framework of the proposed new Law on Community Financing. Dear Members and Members! I am convinced that the new law on the financing of municipalities ensures greater equality between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the tasks performed by the municipalities. No matter what part of Slovenia they live in. The proposed law also ensures greater financial autonomy of municipalities, greater transparency of municipal finances. At the same time, this is the next important step towards a more coherent development of the whole country. I therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you also support the new law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much for further explanation, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Dearly Honourable Vice President! Local self-government is based on the tasks of local self-government, in other words local communities. In Slovenia, since 1994, when we introduced local community institutions, we do not have the right system for funding municipalities. We do not have such a funding system for municipalities that would allow individual local communities, whether urban or ordinary, to be the generators for the development of that local area, which is the so-called border. In the national party, we expected to come up with a new perspective on the functioning of local communities in the area of new aspects of the functioning of local self-government, particularly in relation to today's very current topic of the provinces, a system law that will sustain the long-term financing of local communities, i.e. municipalities. I'm afraid that's not the case. The law that was before us today, which was created with a great rompomp, which was in connection with the tax legislation that we adopted days ago in the National Assembly, does not define in its content the other dimension of local self-government, that is, the definition of municipalities. If we look at the estimated revenue or expenditure under the Law on the Financing of the Communities, we see that it does not provide for that second level, that is, the landscape. From this title, we can almost certainly claim that this law, namely, the proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, will be of a very short-term nature, so that it will meet up with additions or changes very quickly. We will be forced to do so by so-called provinces, which, according to government representatives, are expected to meet in 2008. However, we all know that if so-called provinces in the Republic of Slovenia, this will be part of the cost represented, on the one hand, for municipalities, on the other hand for the country. And in the part where the cost represents for the congregation, this task should therefore be defined under the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Allow me to touch the very contents of the law that is before us today, which I reiterate, we estimate that short-term nature is primarily at the expense of the municipalities. In other words, to the detriment of citizens and citizens of individual local communities, because the municipalities under such a written law will not be able to provide the interest that citizens and citizens expect from them. Rumor has it they're supposed to be their own tax sources, yes. Even so far, we have had so-called tax revenues in the budgets of local communities, but these tax revenues are related to the new dimension of local community funding as a result of changes to the tax law or fiscal policy law. As a source of local communities, a new real estate tax will be envisaged. We personally estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a phenomenal move from their selfish point of view. One of the most unpopular laws will be passed on to local communities because the state does not hope to collect it itself. Because this cost will be much higher than just a composite compensation for the use of building land, which has not been collected or the same in all parts of individual congregations. The equation or identification of these two burdens for citizens and citizens is, of course, inappropriate and, above all, non-creditable by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those who advocate an equation between these two revenues. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to do so. This tax source, which, in turn, will hit every single and every Slovenian hard in the pocket or in the spine, will be transferred by the government in exchange for giving up the other part of the funding, to the local community. How this will be implemented in practice, we do not know. We know that these tax laws, which will form an integral part of the income of local communities, have been passed before. One last night. So, we don't know what the simulation of these will be. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet defined this so-called local community tax revenue. No one in our country knows the height of that. Once again, if I stop at a property tax as the tax revenue of local communities, we know that no records have been established. How, then, will the local communities be able to carry out their tasks, which we know to a good extent, or each proper congregation, has already planned for years to come, followed by the congregations. Unfortunately, this will not be possible, and we can call the creator of this material a man with a lack of imagination, a real imagination. That sounds really nice. Unfortunately, it's not feasible. The content of the law below also refers to so-called non-tax revenues. During the budgetary discussions that took place in the National Assembly and in the course of the budgetary discussions that took place in individual local communities, the National Party's parliamentary group or the National Party's councils have always underlined the concession law with new emphasis. The fact is, we don't have a roofing law on concessions yet. Why am I talking about concessions? Due to the fact that non-tax revenue within local communities is also defined as a second source of own resources, concession activity is also defined. However, we know that concessional activities throughout local communities within our country are very different. We have local communities, i.e. municipalities that do not collect, which do not have a budget line. Concession revenue. We have a budget of municipalities that have concession incomes charged very high and we have municipalities that have minimal revenues from this title. But where is the blame for this diversity within the budget line of local communities, that is, municipalities in the field of concession? The culprit is just one. This is a lack of a roof law on concessions. The same is true in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where we do not have the same law. Of course, this is why these budgetary anomalys and the differences between the individual budgets of local communities within our country of the Republic of Slovenia are taking place. To speak and refer to as a permanent revenue from concessions such as those autonomous activities that are in the hands of or on one side of the country, our country or on the other side of the local community, not to have this area regulated without having been defined by law. We have market concessions. We have concessions based on the satisfaction of the interests of the municipalities, then of course we cannot define them as one constant source of local communities. Rather than a constant source, it is, of course, a source of those congregations that have approached it. But do not deceive in such a way that, of course, this resource will allow a balance between income and expenditure. According to my assessment, in the field of other own resources, or better said, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, it is highly non-creditable or does not give long-term scope to that law, which we are, of course, funding today. The draft law also refers to so-called derogations. In this regard, of course, empty content is very interesting. I would like to point out that there is a very interesting empty content in this law, which means that resources have been withdrawn from the State for the execution of individual projects. What's the realisation of this? If we get a guarantee of full realization, then of course in the National Party we would say: Wonderful. The municipalities will be able to carry out the tasks that citizens and citizens expect from them. The mayor will execute the budget in the form that the legislator, that is, the municipal or city council, will approve. But not under this empty content, which determines the autonomy of the state to decide which of the priorities or projects will be financed in each local community. Of course, I can't get past it, but some people say theories, conspiracy, or I say, reality. I am afraid that the criteria for projects or local communities for which the state will transfer the so-called decommissioned resources will be political belonging to the leaders of this local community. I believe that, of course, you smile at some of you who are mayors today or have mayors in a particular local community. But the fact is, we won't always have the same government. And the fact that there could be wisdom in all of us that individual projects would not be bound to clientele in the local communities per mayor does not represent the mayor of the municipality in all respects. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot finance the local communities on the basis of the mayor's political affiliation. The municipality is much more than just and only a single mayor. The municipality is an integral part of the Republic of Slovenia. And until we are able to move forward in thinking and mark the project of a political party as positive, it will be supported by a project of a local community whose mayor is independent or, last but not least, other political options, but will wait for years of realisation in the future. And when we talk about the reality of the longevity of the law that is before us today, let me return with words two years ago. A consultation was held in Maribor on the development of Maribor and its surroundings. The Council was organised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The spokesman was Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. With him, of course, our finance minister, Mr. Bajuk. At that beginning of their activities, both presented at this meeting a new age of financing or part of financing of local community debt, an obligation in that dimension that would, of course, take place through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under more favourable conditions. I personally thought it was a wonderful, wonderful idea. We all know that the amount of debt liabilities depends on the amount of debt. In such a case, if, of course, he joins a financial institution for a greater mass, of course, he will be in a better debt. I must personally admit, I then congratulated Mr. Bayuk. The matter is very simple, feasible at the moment, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not fully implemented or in nothing. There was no local community to come into this scheme. Because this scheme did not even take place in the framework of the presentation. I want to tell you this story, something else, that we have a government of the Republic of Slovenia or a parliament, whatever you want, which is speaking in one dimension and which is in reality or in practice in another dimension. And that these two dimensions of words and actions are so far apart from each other that of course we can no longer believe. And today, when I look at the content of this law or the time before we saw it, when we received it in Parliament, at the parliamentary procedure mentioned in the law, when I read that the law defines as a source of funding for municipal debt and, of course, that the law does not regulate it in detail, but that it will still be the matter or content of another law, of public finances, then, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about the direct source of funding for local communities. Again, we cannot talk about a constant source of funding that will be the same for all local communities. And according to my assessment and assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, this is not right. Again, we do not come from that dimension, that narrow view that only two more years will advance those local communities that are, according to the government, "their" and those local communities that are not "their" according to the government. But we should be aware that all local communities are ours regardless of political affiliation. Hereinafter, according to our assessment, it is very interesting that chapter which speaks of the expansion of the sources of funding for local communities - something I have already talked about - of the property tax and the tax on water vessels. Today, none of us in this country knows, regardless of the government's assurances or the words, whether it will be a finance minister, whether it will be the Minister for Local Self-Government without a licence or, more recently, the Government Secretary of State, who is usually with us. None of us can know the height of the source, not the state, but the individual local community under the real estate law. And to speak and promise and write in the content of the law in the context of transitional provisions as a source of financing for local communities for real estate taxes, ladies and gentlemen, is incorrect. This is unfair to the executives of the municipal budget, the mayor, to the budget maker, that is, the various municipal administrations and also to those who receive these municipal budgets. This is the municipal or city councils. But the last concern is if this is unfair to them, at least within the national party. The first concern is that this is unfair to citizens and citizens. They are actually beneficiaries of the budget ratings. And, of course, the budgets to be written on the basis of the Law on the Financing of Communities, this Law, will be extremely short-term budgets. Budgets that will mislead consumers, all users of municipal budget lines, on the one hand, and on the other, much wider users of these ratings, to be carried out by consumers of the budget of municipal budgets. We further assess that if I go in line, the force is controversial from a constitutional point of view not least Article 20. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia we have several articles of positive discrimination. Here. It has been explained on several occasions that individual groups of people cannot assimilate themselves into the framework of our society and therefore a special approach to them is needed, especially funding and a special fling on the shoulders. Personally, I don't believe that. I believe that we citizens and citizens are equal and that from this title we bear the same rights and what is usually forgotten is the same obligations, regardless of their intended difference or anything else. And from this title in this 20th article, which speaks of co-financing or the exercise of rights, we feel that it is absolutely unnecessary, on the other hand, to offend us, and what is most important in contravention of the highest legal act within our country is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for a double different content of the Constitution in the same article. On the one hand, co-financing of the rights of the national community and, on the other hand, of the Roma community. If we wanted to follow the basic legal act within our country, then we would have written it all down in two articles, we would have referred to two different articles of the Constitution. It is not, however, that the constitutional category, on the one hand, of the national community, on the other hand, of members of the Roma community separated by the Constitution on the basis of rights and obligations in this Act, in article 20 of the proposed law, is thrown into the same basket. What this will mean in the long run, you probably do not need to speak specifically. For I believe that for the constitutions of the category, each of you, the High Members, and those who try us in the context of the sound system of the permission of the National Assembly, is aware. They were very interesting, all of them, and they will probably agree with me that you have read the different opinions that came from day to day into the National Assembly. Let this be the opinion of the representatives of the local communities, which unite in the community of municipalities, that this should be the individual local communities as their response as the user's response to the said law. Allow me to point out, at least in my opinion, some of the most important ones, of course speaking clearly in the sense that such a law is necessary today. That it's a marriage that's not life for the first time. That this law, which will hinder progress in local communities, is in all local communities. It will strengthen progress in those local communities, which unfortunately will not be in the direction of a particular political party, but generally when it blocks progress and the loss of autonomy of local communities. Speaking of autonomy, isn't autonomy always ahead of us when we're talking about the first level of local self-government, that is, the municipalities? Was it not always before us a speech, and lastly even six months ago, when we reestablished a number of congregations, that we approached or reached 210 today, that it was autonomy to do so in order for the citizens and the citizens of the individual congregation to be content? And not least six months ago, when we spoke on the Constitutional Commission about the second level of local self-government, so about the provinces, or did we not always talk about autonomy, that this is the essence of changing regulation, the legal regulation of the functioning of these institutions, that is, at the first level, because of autonomy, because this autonomy will achieve that synergy, so that our citizens and citizens will be more satisfied. Gentlemen, the law before us today not only does not guarantee any autonomy, it even reduces it in terms of the current or soon past system of funding for local communities. According to our assessment, this law, as far as you will adopt it, will prevent long-term development planning in local communities. It's not just the National Party's opinion. This is the opinion of many local communities within our country. Last but not least, all those who unite in that association of associations of municipalities and cities, not least of the individual municipalities, not least of the individual mayors who did not cooperate on the party line with the National Party Group. Let me mention here the parents, their mayor, Mr. Ducman, who is extremely concerned about funding municipalities. And all those mayors who prepare their budgets in a quality and correct manner and who are in the interest of following the local communities in a positive way. This funding proposal cannot be satisfied because they are aware of what this content, the inconsistent content behind it brings, how many unknowns, how many questions, and how many questions, on the one hand, between the mathematical equation in which the equation is in the middle, cannot be constant on the one hand and on the other, ask questions. That's not a solution. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia is offering us a law that has only questions on one side of this equation. On the other hand, we ask the local communities to prepare budgets, that budgets are development-oriented, that they are project-oriented and that they are oriented for years in advance. And the revenue side consists of questions, ask questions, ask questions. It's a lot of loose ends. Once again, I was very pleased to be invited by my colleague, Ducman Starš, to interview me in connection with this law. Because I also felt that the individual representatives of the local community cared for a little more than the local community, but especially for those acts that were in the preparatory phase that would have a long-term impact on the development of that local community, as this reflected the concern of the individual mayor. Following the calculations published on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia’s Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, this law will have to be recognised as the most affected urban parts of the Republic of Slovenia, the urban municipality. Let Ljubljana be the capital among them. Let the city of Maribor come out among them, the city where I come from. But that's the law. Other municipalities. But this is the law that will push these local communities, these development generators down, financially and financially through the prism of dependence or independence on government policy. And if we have a line, if we have a meter, local communities will become dependent on the wishes of policy projects on the basis of this law. Those policies that govern the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving away from the moment that has always been in the mouth of government representatives, that is, autonomy. As regards individual comments in the context of the authorship of representatives of local communities, I believe that you have all received from the Municipality of Maribor, the municipality of Trzin of the previously mentioned municipality of Starša. But their comments, which, according to my assessment or the assessment of the National Parties, should be reviewed in substance. Do not accept their letters as something to be seen and then blindly believe in the minister without a ticket. According to my assessment, these warnings coming from people who are implementing the budget, who are responsible for planning, for long-term, had to be taken more thoroughly than they are. And after talking to individual mayors of mayors, I also know what the Minister's response is to these representatives when they want to make contact with him when they want to talk to him about the content while the law is not yet in the parliamentary procedure. We all know that at the moment the law enters into the parliamentary procedure, its amendment is extremely difficult, it can go through the stage of the proceedings. But the effect we know is, at least usually, the same. So that the National Assembly accepts nothing that comes from the opposition, or anything that comes from our country of the Republic of Slovenia, the local communities. Before that, however, cooperation with the interested professional public, which I call various municipal administrations, various municipal financial institutions, and last but not least, the mayor was not involved in the drafting of this law. [[Allow me, you'll get the word, but let me finish first. Thank you.]] Allow me to point out once again, according to my assessment, the most important elements. So, the law reduces the financial autonomy of the municipalities. No one in this National Assembly, no government representative can say anything else, is shrinking. And why does autonomy usually decline, why do people take away their rights, in this case, of course, the rights arising from financial resources? Because he wants to screw himself up because he wants to make himself a drug addict. And I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this way builds the dependence of local communities on itself. We have several ways of exposing addiction. But that real government of the Republic of Slovenia does not use it. This is a positive example, quality work, good projects. But of course the government didn't make it. That is why he wants to make dependence by reducing financial resources, by using those financial resources that are inconsistent, which will be reflected through the deficits of local budgets and those that will be reflected through the monthly rebalancies of municipal budgets. For those of you who do not know, the balance sheet, the correction and this correction of the most important public financial act in each local community. And this repair. This is not just for municipal and city councillors. The correction is primarily to the detriment of budget customers who see in this most important act, the municipal act when we talk about the financing of municipalities, a guarantee for revenue, a guarantee for a year or two ahead and a commitment in the long term, as the funds they will pay in the municipal budgets. And good entrepreneurs or good budget customers, be public services, concessionaires, whatever, do not work from day to day. Their plan reaches even a year in advance. And how should they commit themselves to the municipal budget if today, on the basis of this law before us, we know that the municipal budgets will face changes, that local communities will change from day to day, because no one in this country knows what the effects of the property tax will be, what will be the effects, minus 30% of the income law? After all, what will be the minimal effects, which are very beautiful and good for the ears, of the tax on watercraft? Building a budget in the Republic of Slovenia on the title of the water tax and defining it in the explanation of the law, this is not serious. We all know the effects will be minimal. We all know why the government came with a tax law on watercraft. Because everyone likes it. But the effects on the municipal budget, that will be zero and it will be comforting or not telling the truth that I will not tell you that it will be an integral part of the income of the development of local communities in Slovenia, all 210. Of course, that's not serious. It was said that the following comments came from the municipalities to draw attention to the ignorance of the consequences of the new tax system. No one, with certainty, knows the consequences of the new tax system, the last of which was adopted at yesterday's meeting of the State Assembly in third reading. And we gave the municipalities a source of funding that no one knows, not height, not concepts, not realization. But we said, or on a proposal from the government, but you've confirmed it to the government. Of course, the votes of the National Party were not present because we do not know what this source will be. We do not know whether there will be any realisation of this or whether we have made mistakes or whether tax legislation will need to be amended. But that's not our problem anymore. This will continue to be a problem for local communities from now on. It's a very simple tactic. In addition, I have already mentioned the inadequacy of the financing of the provinces, and if I recall and know that part of the costs of operation of the provinces will also be borne by the local community, part will be borne by the government or by the ministry. This is not defined in this law in the form of expenditure, compulsory expenditure, nothing. And finally, allow me to point out once again, we will not support this bill in the National Party. We will not support the proposal for a law that in such a transparent way increases the dependence on the development of citizens and citizens on the ruling policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the brief presentation of your position. However, Mr Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't have to be reminded of the shortness of time, because I'm already at a faster dose of a minute. However, a few words still need to be said. For the introduction, let me say that we are assessing in the DeSUS Group, that the government service for local self-government and regional development has, however, made a great deal of effort in these two years to reflect on the situation of local communities and to draw up different regulations and that it is clear that we will not all have the same attitude towards what is the result of their work. That's not how it used to be. This will not be the case today, and also in the procedures that will follow, there will probably be a number of comments, some good suggestions, including a clear indication that we will reconsider what we are going to do. We do not expect those who are seriously involved in the congregations and are even responsible for this to be like a “deus ex machina” law that would suddenly come, resolve our problems, and untie our excessive work and effort. Well, that's definitely not gonna happen. We know that there will have to be a lot of effort in the future, not only in the area of funding the municipalities, but on the whole of another kind of parallel legislation, which is even more or less burdensome for local communities. We also know that the Law on Community Financing cannot solve those problems that have been imposed on us by the Law on Local Self-Government, which some welcome, and some even find in it a type of weakness. It can't possibly be denied that some of these weaknesses in the Empire then also occur. Nor can it be overlooked that the Law on Community Financing cannot replace what should be passed by a law that will regulate the second level of local self-government and which would probably be better served at the same time. But now it's not like that. We have the ambition from 1 January 2007 to change something in the field of local self-government. If we want to do this, we cannot wait for another coming or already prepared legislation, which will be adopted later. We also know that the Law on Community Financing, which we are talking about now, actually solves things statistically, more at the level of average, not so much on empirical experience, not so much on actual costs, not so much on the actual legal obligations that local communities have. For some obligations are even those that are so recommended, but a large number of local communities do not even meet them. For example, the construction of non-profit dwellings, which is an obligation for a particular congregation, is an obligation of local communities and can be extremely burdensome for someone else. On average, however, what is devoted to spending in this area is the same everywhere. So this average of some flaws in the Empire can't be fixed. Nor can the law solve those problems of municipal development potential that are not solely related to the reallocation of funds. It is unlikely that no one can deny that there is now a reallocation of funds between local communities at one level and at the other level between the country and individual local communities. We are not all equally excited about this. Some of us also have some concerns or recommendations to reconsider whether everything is well written and proposed. Some problems also arise from how we all understand the law’s dictates, how we understand the concept, how we understand the content of local self-government. And the fact that we do not all understand this exactly the same is clear from the organisational problems we have in Slovenia from the constitutional problems we have in organising our country, for example in the field of strong hypertrophy. Thus, at least some of us judge a congregation that is not the most rational and which is not based so much on economic calculations, but rather on political will, which is more voluntary than on actual needs. Of course, it is important to bear in mind that the former Law on the Financing of the Communities refers to this point and that the current proposal also addresses it. This is one of the intentions that can be recognized. The development of congregations in the past was not so dependent on the vital potential of individual environments, but rather on how such an environment was favored by the Law on Community Financing. It would be good to admit these things, then some mistakes, or weaknesses, not to say mistakes, will not be repeated. In the past, a number of additional burdens, even a type of weakness, errors that have been made and burdened the congregations, have been noted. It is good that the government now makes these old mistakes in a way that it tries to correct them. The dependence on the state was greater after my judgment, however, than it would have been after the new one. Weakness, which was probably clear to everyone at first, and which we are about to eliminate in some way, has been introduced as a basis for calculation, of which those who do not deal with the congregations probably do not know anything. The new tasks that were transferred to the congregations without resources were such weaknesses, fragmentation of congregations, absence of landscapes, and so on. In short, the whole type of weakness has in the past burdened the congregations that the applicant is now trying to phase out. This mandate must have focused more on the municipalities. The condition, the financial condition for the municipalities, was significantly improved. Some nonsensees have been corrected, such as the nonsense of a domestic helper, which has only been eliminated by a two-thirds majority. About one third of the nonsense remained. She's more observant. This is probably also a good role for representative associations of local communities. It is probably good for the service to have a comprehensive reflection on the regulation concerning local self-government. The objectives of the Law on the Financing of Communities, as listed, will be, as we estimate, only partially realized. That's better than nothing. To significantly increase the number of congregations that will not be directly dependent on the State, of course, this is true. We could also do it in different ways, raise our income, and the effect could be similar. Financial autonomy will increase, which is partly true, because we need to know that some weaknesses remain so in the regulation on setting the average, where we will not overly cooperate and influence the municipalities and so also in the ZIPRO, which is also in the hands of this national assembly. Prepare him for government, and he has no particular influence. There's a whole bunch of other weaknesses I don't have time to list anymore because I'm running out of time. I would like to point out that the definition of correction coefficients is also not appropriate. Talking about the area of the congregations is not a criterion, it may even be a large area of the congregation, which is good, because there is less cost. Roads may be important or the length of roads is important. But more importantly, where this road is built, how it is maintained, how wide it is, what its utility and other equipment is. There are still a number of other things that I would like to point out to the government's job to think about. However, I think that at least something else needs to be done that what the Law on the Financing of the Communities will now give us to the municipalities a little more than before, and I think it would be right for the government service to meet at least with experts from the Ministry of Environment and Space and to consider how to change the regulation on water tax, and with some other ministries, of course, who indirectly interfere with the pockets of local communities. To conclude: We will support this law. However, let me say that we estimate that there will be more resources for local self-government. But there will be no greater righteousness, or many will feel even the unjust distribution of funds that is now envisaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsonec will speak on behalf of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. The law is based on the principles of local self-government based on constitutional arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The principle of local self-government is expressed in the right of municipalities to determine independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the tasks which they are able to carry out independently and also to finance for the benefit of their inhabitants. The proposed law builds on the principle of local self-government by providing its own funding resources for tasks performed by municipalities on the basis of its rules. The principle of financial autonomy and the principle of cohesion lay down that the municipality should be financed from its own resources and that financial resources should be in an appropriate relationship with the tasks. The principle of equality before the law is expressed in the right of the citizen of Slovenia to equal financing of tasks that municipalities are obliged to carry out for their inhabitants under the law. Equality shall be ensured by the allocation of the resources of the State budget’s decommissioned revenue, taking into account the appropriate level of resources needed by each municipality to finance the tasks entrusted to the municipalities by law and required to carry out them. The funding system, which includes the State's obligations to provide the municipalities with adequate resources by law, is linked to specific tasks in the field laws. However, I would like to draw attention to the problems of municipalities in undeveloped areas. Indevelopment is further exacerbated by the fact that the population in these areas of the older generation, which means that they are not capable of high productivity. As older citizens, they also have more social needs and unemployment. And such a congregation should care more for children, pay kindergartens, and various social benefits. And the fact that these congregations are on the periphery. Well, they're a long way from the centers. And that costs more time than it costs materially. All the offices in the administrative units are a long way from here. Therefore, citizens spend more time and also money on administrative matters. Not just citizens, not even employees. It would also be desirable for the State to provide material support to the tasks assigned to the congregations from the State. Many times, congregations are given assignments, not financial resources. I'd like to mention bilingual congregations. They receive an allowance for bilinguality or a state financed by the municipal nationalities councils and do so honestly. It would be desirable to draw up standards for the financing of these tasks. Also for the use of these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Puksic has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers and co-workers, a very nice greeting! Mr. Vice President, you too! Finally, we received into the National Assembly a new law on the financing of municipalities. This law has been expected by the congregations for many years. I myself participated in amending this legislation in 1999. At that time, I had the second longest performance for my fellow Member of the Sovič. His was in about four hours and mine was in three hours. But believe me, colleagues and colleagues, this isn't going to be the case today. The performance was a debt for one simple reason because the law proposed at the time was very unfair. Condemned to demographically endangered municipalities, unfair to the Slovenian countryside. He was discriminatory, he was bad. The worst part was that the law even stated that it would be implemented with up to 75% financial compensation. Of course, it would be a funeral of local self-government. This would be the funeral of democracy for the then state. However, this did not happen to the thanks of the then constitutional court and, of course, some of us, who were horribly opposed by all possible legal means. The worst way to finance municipalities is the amount of income and also the most unfair. Made income per capita in various parts of our country when there is no consistent development, when it did not develop evenly for a decade, when it was heard about Slovenian Gorica and Haloza a decade ago. These are the places where he goes to his knees in clay and mud. These are the places where there is no electric lamp and no water connection. Such a way of financing was totally discriminatory and bad for the development of our country. Although the tasks of the congregations were both large and the greatest of Ljubljana’s to the Hosca Congregation, one law also defined obligations. Unfortunately, the so-called criteria, the development hazard index, were never respected. This law states that, together with the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance, this calculation will be done. I am also sure in this law that this development threat index should be taken into account even more closely. I hope that we will also be able to supplement the law with some amendments in the second reading in this direction, in the direction of better, consistent, even development. A consistent equitable development is, in fact, a solution for this country, a solution for centralisation. A consistent more equitable development is what we have also written in this coalition contract. It is true that in two years much has changed. But it is true that all things cannot be done in such a short time. I am glad that we have a government that has listened to this and truly holds what we have written in the coalition treaty. When I spoke of so-called income per capita and after a change in income from 30 to 35%, she brought in over 5,000 tolls per capita in some municipalities, bringing in 500 tolars per capita. This meant great differences, so several times with factor 10 and more. When we talked about these injustices, it happened that several congregations in the country spent over 25 to 30 billion money on what was called proper spending. Other congregations did not have to follow any State call or invitation to tender, nor did they have to consider participating in those calls where a source of co-financing was needed because they simply did not have it. This law is much more just. This law offers the possibility of a better uniform development. In particular, this law also brings to the vast majority of municipalities a substantial number of funds, in fact more funds. For small congregations, I can even say, for rural congregations for about a year. 50% of the investment money. If we recalculated this, we would quickly find that in one term in four years in such municipalities we lost about 60% to 80% of the budget. And it is good to upgrade, as already, the share of gross domestic product in this law on the financing of municipalities. By making a comparison with the neighbouring countries of the European Union, in particular the most democratic, the most developed and the most developed countries, we will find that this share is around 12%. This brings both tasks, liabilities and financial resources into line. And far better for the development of democracy and this country would be if, already in 1994, there were both regional and local legislation. However, this was not or was not enough of the will and power to do so at the time. Therefore, these gradual steps, which are now being taken, are steps in the right direction and steps in a better, more coherent regional development. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the law. And before I finish, maybe just a few words about specific articles in the law itself. The third section on the financing of mandatory tasks of municipalities in Article 15 lists the mandatory tasks of municipalities. Transport infrastructure should also be added here, I think. In the second paragraph, it is stated that the Minister responsible for finance, in agreement with the Minister for Local Self-Government in accordance with the previous paragraph and programmes, sets out in more detail the classification of the expenditure of municipal budgets by means of the Rules of Procedure of the types of compulsory tasks of municipalities and the methodology for calculating the average costs of municipalities for the financing of compulsory duties of municipalities per capita in the country. That's good, but here's the question. A very quick question is asked, what about where costs are higher than average costs, what about where costs are even several times higher per segment than, say, social segments, unemployment, care for children in kindergartens, such as the transport of children to school and so on? In short, a few questions are asked here. I believe that, at the time of the drafting of the amendment law in the second reading, we will know the correct answer to these questions. It shall be laid down in Article 18. That's what I'm talking about. And this is significantly better than it was before and above all fairer. Article 28 refers to the determination of the extent of co-financing and paragraph 4 shows what eligible costs are. It says that the eligible costs are without VAT. In those cases where the municipality cannot account for VAT, I think it would be correct if the VAT costs were also justified in this case. In short, there are some open questions that are, in fact, such a nature that they can be resolved further. I appeal myself, and I believe that the law will be passed. As planned, this year, as of 1.1.2007. And very quickly it will show how many truly positive effects this law has for the development of Slovenia and the entire area. Years ago in Parliament, I said, I came here to give the kids what's big. This has not yet been realized, but I see the possibility of realisation in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. He now has the floor, Mr Trofenik, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister with his fellow workers! Today, we are discussing the issue of how we have faced everything since the introduction of local self-government, how to provide municipalities with sufficient financial resources to carry out the tasks they have to perform under the Constitution and the laws. In order to refresh the memory, the Constitution provides in Article 142: "The municipality shall be financed from its own resources. To municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their tasks, the State shall provide additional resources in accordance with the legally established principles and criteria." The European Charter on Local Self-Government in Article 9 sets out the financial resources of local communities. The Article provides that local authorities, within the framework of their national economic policy, are entitled to adequate own financial resources available to them within the framework of their powers. The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down by the Constitution and the law. The European Charter recommends that the financial systems on which the resources available to local authorities are based should be sufficiently diverse and flexible so that, to the extent practicable, they can follow the actual movement of the costs of their tasks. In order to protect weaker local communities, financial compensation procedures or other appropriate measures should be introduced to remedy the effects of the unequal distribution of possible financial resources and the financial burden borne by local communities. Such procedures or measures shall not reduce the freedom of decision of local communities in the field of their tasks. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we recognize that the solutions to the existing legal solutions were not fully able to implement this principle in the 1994 law in the substantially amended 1998 law and subsequent legal changes to the financing of municipalities. This is confirmed by the following facts. Yes, financial resources are not in relation to the tasks of local communities under the Constitution and the law. Another time. That income as the most important resource is unevenly distributed by municipalities. Third time. That it depends on the municipalities of the state budget is too large, as most municipalities receive financial compensation at the same time there are inadequate surpluses in some municipalities as a result of unequal distribution of income and inadequate distribution of certain other financial or tax resources as an example of concession fee for gambling. Fourth time. The calculation of appropriate consumption does not sufficiently take into account parameters that have a significant impact on the cost of municipalities, for example, the cost of child care independently or depend only on the population of young people, not on per cap's income and not on the coverage of children in kindergarten. Fifth. Yes, the reform of the law does not adequately address the problem of co-financing investments. In the past, the funding of municipalities has been mechanically flawed; otherwise, according to our main negative consequence of the current system, the financing of municipalities is two, which is based on the current system of funding of municipalities, so that each value is calculated on the appropriate consumption of the municipality, which is higher than its own income, requires a positive difference in the financial alignment, which is a direct income from the state budget, depending on the country's loss of part of the local community's autonomy. The long-term financial adjustment is not encouraging for the municipality in its own revenue generation and any changes are not of interest to it. Moreover, the logic of economic behaviour is that any increase in the difference between the uncalculated proper consumption and its own revenues constitutes more so-called state-owned pensions for which there is no need to invest excessive effort. The problem is further deepening with each year, the differences between municipalities are increasing as the current model of their funding does not encourage municipalities to launch their own development capacities. Another time. The current law allows small secession municipalities to receive more money from the state budget than they would have received as part of the larger local communities. The current system generates continuous requirements for the establishment of new municipalities, so fair and even distribution of budgetary resources between municipalities should be made possible in order to curb the trend towards the emergence of new municipalities. The Commissions of the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of Europe also reported on us in their 2001 report on the situation of local democracy in the Republic of Slovenia that a number of small local communities appear to have been established only in view of the fact that once independent local communities will be subject to a minimum state subsidy that could be higher than the local share in the budget and the financial structure of the municipality from which they secede. As a result, large municipalities stagnate in their development compared with other small municipalities that benefit greatly from government support or rent. It would be ideal if we could create such local communities that, without funding from the State budget, would be able to meet their needs. There is no doubt, however, that because of the specific characteristics of municipalities, geographical, demographic and economic, the latter cannot be achieved and that certain levels will always need to be redistributed from the state budget. The preparation of the Law on Community Financing must therefore first and foremost be based on the flag provision and principles of the European Charter on local self-government, since these are mandatory starting points and the solution must address the negative consequences mentioned. In the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we advocate such changes in the funding system of municipalities that will reduce differences between municipalities that are able to finance their own resources and those that are not, and which more fairly and evenly allocate funds from the state budget between municipalities. Changes in the funding system of municipalities must also eliminate the tendency to crush municipalities. However, the main purpose of the changes must be to increase the financial autonomy of the municipalities by making them less dependent on financial compensation as far as possible on the implementation of the principle of self-financing. In doing so, the State must ensure such control at a certain source of funds and the reversal referred to in this Title in order to ensure equality of citizens before the law. In order to avoid such large differences in the income of the municipalities, another tax source, which is more evenly distributed across Slovenian territory or between local communities, is likely to be on the ground or in addition to lower income than before. Sources for the financing of appropriate spending should be excluded from this category, since dedicated resources are intended to carry out certain additional tasks of municipalities other than those of all municipalities. The financial compensation must be intended for the performance of those tasks which the municipality must carry out under the Constitution and the law, not for the tasks it may perform. In all municipalities, it is not possible to evaluate additional tasks not required or not for all municipalities. Funds for the specific tasks of the municipality should be excluded from the financial compensation. In our view, consumption per capita is the most important indicator. On this basis, a system of financial compensation should be built and the calculation of the appropriate consumption should therefore be based on actual costs, on a larger number of parameters which actually reflect the costs of the municipality, rather than on the ratios permitted by the applicable law. The latter encourages the division into smaller congregations and forces for greater consumption. The system of accounts does not make sense, as municipalities do not have real basis for preparing annual budgets. While the proposed law at the declaratory level follows these objectives, the solutions implemented do not allow for their solutions. We note that a substantial increase in the share of public consumption of municipalities in the structure of public consumption or in the share of gross domestic product is not guaranteed by the proposed law; the increase is only symbolic, in no way sufficient in view of the actual costs and needs of local communities. Next. The law does not provide sufficient and adequately dispersed financial resources for the financing of municipalities and does not strengthen the financial autonomy of municipalities, on the contrary, by introducing principals instead of fixed and dispersed financial resources increases the financial dependence of municipalities on the state budget, which is contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The calculation of appropriate consumption does not take sufficient account of the specificity or diversity of the municipalities, but rather redistributes appropriate consumption to the detriment of the larger municipalities. By the way, the negative effect in the prices of this year alone on the urban community segment is minus 10 billion, of which about 60% on the account of the abolished supplement 0.8% in the known formula and additional poor 3 billion on the account of the municipalities where they have the administrative unit, although it is true that later on with the modified formula, which actually means a purely change in distribution and does not have any substantive quality in favour of reckless surfaces and roads, of course, the problem of roads which is a particular problem of public finance in Slovenian public finances both locally and nationally. By the way, this redistribution of the Municipality of Ljubljana takes 8 and a half billion and determines the lowest coefficient, of course the law speaks inconsistently about the index, which is incorrect because the index is something else, it is a coefficient or factor for Ljubljana 0,80 and is the lowest of all 210 municipalities in Slovenia. To think and compare, let me say the case in Austrian law. The Austrian legislation introduces coefficients of more than 1 per cent for the city or municipality with a size of 50,000 or more and the capital of Vienna is this coefficient or factor 2, one third, and in the Slovenian space 0.8 for the capital or capital city as if the municipalities and capitals and other municipalities that have no specific tasks in particular in the field of culture, sport and certain activities where they actually finance institutions of wider importance. This bill is directed directly at culture, against sport, against institutions or the financing of institutions of wider importance, which is a particular weakness - the law increases differences between municipalities. If in the present law the weakness is due to the unequal distribution of income across Slovenian space, this is done consciously in this law and the surpluses are consciously created by the system or method of calculating principals, in detail later in the discussion. The proposal for a law does not adequately address the issue of co-financing investments, as it leaves decisions on this issue to the individual ministry without legal criteria. I think that this is one of the weakest parts of the law, which is somehow trying to copy a regulation that has already proved inappropriate in practice, that I will not say inappropriate. It is difficult to seriously assess such a proposal, which gives the Minister the right and the opportunity to prescribe the rules of the game, using the so-called developmental hazard index, but we must, of course, ask ourselves in what connection the share of investments is, in particular, at a primary school in a municipality depending on the surface or in Natura 2000 from the headship of the "percapita" of the added value of the "percapita" and some of the other criteria that are written there are no or very small causal links, so such a solution is unacceptable. In a foreign country, this is measured by the municipality’s financial power index. The index of financial power not to make the same mistake as the proponents is, of course, a hundred times the ratio between the municipality's own income and the appropriate consumption. Of course, this measures strength if own revenues are higher than the appropriate consumption, that means that there is something left for investments and that the index is over 100 and this could be, or normally, an appropriate criterion abroad, but not an index of developmental hazard, which has been passed on to this law from another law and from another regulation, which is already shown in practice, a whole lot of problems and problems, and it is not necessary to repeat this error in this law. Of course, given the shortcomings listed in the Liberal Democracy Club, we cannot support it without wanting to, we cannot and must not make such a proposal without, of course, experiencing significant changes. I would also like to point out that in the philosophy of the law two different philosophies are actually beating. Philosophy before 1998, this is a philosophy provided administratively by ministers of certain spending and, of course, some change in 1998 when it wanted to step towards greater autonomy and introduced the concept of appropriate use as a framework for greater autonomy and to respond to the diversity of local communities or their needs. And in the end. We have asked the Government Service for local self-government and regional development for additional calculations in addition to the tables published on the websites, and unfortunately we have not received any answers to this day. The question is why they hide themselves in some way because the additional calculations are essential for a comprehensive and responsible assessment proposed in the law, and their concealment does not, of course, lead to the search for quality solutions. In the discussion it will be possible to further highlight that on the website published calculations, of course, in some way I apologize, are populism and could also say inadequate, because they suggest the projection of new sums and therefore most were, of course, quick when they looked at the law at first glance, they said, because it is a law that brings more resources to all. Of course, if we want to compare something, we need to compare basic schooling on a common denominator or on the same basis. And if we do that, of course, these conclusions are fundamentally different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the following word on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! The proposed proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities does not comprehensively address the financing of municipalities. The new law, which will regulate the community funding system and have a significant impact on the further development of local self-government, would be expected to be justified after so many years, and would expect certain solutions that this law does not bring. The funds intended for the operation of municipalities are primarily redistributed by means of a redistribution of the most funds to the municipality of Ljubljana. It's possible that someone even likes it. The fact is, however, that municipalities do not have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks and to make the necessary investments. The Law on the Financing of the Congregations also does not resolve or take into account the differences between municipalities, such as the municipalities and municipalities, which, for example, have the headquarters of administrative units. The larger congregations are the founders of public institutions that carry out activities of wider importance, but they are not all the more regional significance or character. The explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that it is estimated that by establishing the provinces, the bulk of those institutions that carry out their tasks for an area wider than that of one municipality will come under the jurisdiction of the province. The Law on Community Financing thus forces the municipalities to transfer certain matters to the provinces in order to transfer the institution to the province, that is, the institution that is of a broader regional character. However, we have institutions that carry out their duties for an area of greater importance than that of one municipality, but they are not of provincial importance. After the transitional period, their funding will remain at the burden of the founder’s congregation. By means of the proposed Community funding system [[Suitable consumption, headgear, reduction of surplus]] is not taken into account the specificities of individual municipalities, it is not considered that larger municipalities should finance the activities of public institutions operating in a wider area and not stimulate the development of an individual municipality. The calculations submitted to the municipalities show that all municipalities, except Ljubljana, Trzin, Šempetra and Vrtojbe, will acquire more resources, but no calculations can be verified, as there is no indication on the basis of which data and variants of the law on the financing of municipalities are made. The calculation of the appropriate consumption, based only on data on the length of local roads and public roads, the area of the municipality, the proportion of people under the age of 15 and over 65, does not take into account all the diversity and specificities of municipalities in Slovenia. Take only the case of the winter service or the case of the congestion of individual roads and public roads in relation to labour migration, the breadth of roads, sidewalks, public lighting. The congregation may be very large in square shape, but it is largely covered by forest areas. When considering the proposal for a Community Financing Act, they should be aware of the content of the Regulation referred to in Article 11, paragraph 11, where the Government will define in more detail the tasks of municipalities whose costs are taken into account when determining the appropriate amount of funding for the tasks of municipalities and the methodology for calculating the average if this is not the matter which should be regulated even in this Act. The assessment of the financial implications for municipal budgets to the extent of all the revenue of the municipality cannot be assessed, as we do not know the types of state taxes and other revenues of the State and their shares that are to be held by the municipalities. At the time of the adoption of the new Law on Community Financing, municipalities should at least be informed of the calculation for four years, indicating on which data and formulas the calculations are based. To answer the question of what to expect by introducing a new real estate tax law that will replace the current compensation for the use of building land and how the landscape financing system will be regulated. The introduction of a real estate tax will particularly affect those municipalities which have had or have an adequate amount of the point of calculation of the compensation for the use of the building’s land, since it is likely that an average of a slight deviation in relation to the location of the property will be applied to all municipalities. Which may mean that certain municipalities, particularly larger ones, will consequently have a significant decrease in the volume of the funds provided for in this Title. According to the current model of funding for municipalities, the largest part of income from own financial resources was income, which according to the provisions of the current law on the financing of municipalities in a 35% share of the municipality's own income. The determination of 35% of the income of municipalities would be contrary to the constitutional principle that municipalities should be financed from their own resources. The proposed Community Financing Act reduces the share of the original revenue of municipalities by 40 %, the figure is set out in point 5, the assessment of the financial and other consequences of the Income Act in the proposal of 30.8.2006, to the extent that it has so far been the income of municipalities in the structure of municipal budgets. Instead of the original income, municipalities would receive a grant from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia at the rate of appropriate spending. This solution undermines the financial autonomy of municipalities, which is determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia 142. Article of the municipality's income, the municipality is financed from its own resources, municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their duties, the State provides additional resources in accordance with the statutory principles and criteria. The European Charter of Local Self-Government in Article 9, when it speaks of the financial resources of local authorities, states that local authorities are entitled to adequate own resources freely available to them under their powers and that procedures for financial compensation or other appropriate measures should be introduced to remedy the effects of the unequal distribution of possible financial resources and the financial burden borne by these municipalities. The proposed system is not based on the principles set out in Article 3 of the proposed Law on the financing of municipalities at the head of the proportionality of funding sources with the tasks of the municipality and on the head of the autonomy of municipalities in the financing of municipal tasks. It will also prevent the real planning and adoption of municipal budgets in the light of the expected dates when municipalities will obtain information on which revenue is to be waived to municipalities and which is even more important in the amount of the kind and the proportion of State taxes and other revenue from the state budget to which the municipalities belong must be defined in the proposed Law on Community Financing, otherwise the long-term financial certainty of the municipalities and the possibility of long-term planning will not be ensured. The municipalities must obtain timely data for the preparation of municipal budgets. In October, the draft municipal budgets must already be prepared without providing the municipalities with prior information on the revenues from principal and the amounts of financial compensation. What are the tasks or programmes for providing municipalities with additional resources from the State budget in order to ensure a wider public interest? Who will identify the wider public interest? The set of tasks that municipalities may carry out under the common municipal administration should not be limited, as it is only through the joint organisation of the common municipal administrations that the costs can be reduced and the performance of individual tasks can be enhanced. Funds intended to unite congregations should be substantially increased in order to stimulate the provision in order to bring the congregations together. Therefore, in Slovenia too, we should wait for the procedure not to crush the country into excessive small municipalities, but to unite them, to unite them. The additional resources defined in Article 27 of the Community Financing Act do not constitute sufficient motive. The State provides the municipalities with the means to carry out the mandatory tasks or the appropriate spending, irrespective of the revenue of the municipality, and the source of the financial compensation means the collection of the revenue and principals to the financially stronger municipalities. A coherent regional development is the subject of a law on the promotion of coherent regional development and not a law on the financing of municipalities. The Law on Community Financing repeals the entire law so far, with the exception of the provisions relating to debt. The proposed provisions do not address the existing problems of indebtedness of municipalities. To the extent that the municipality is indebted, guarantees given to public undertakings and institutions shall also be considered, but their annual revenues shall not be included in the budget. Limiting the debt of municipalities to 20% of the realised revenue from the balance of revenue and expenditure of the budget in the year preceding the year of indebtedness, in relation to the provision that the current debt situation is included in the scope of the debt, because the possibility of borrowing municipalities limits more than the limitation on the repayment of debts in a given year of 5% and an additional 3%. That restriction also allows for a greater possibility of borrowing the State at the expense of the municipalities. The fulfilment of the Convergence Programme or the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact depends on public sector debt at the level of the State and the municipalities, with the extent of the debt owed and the extent of the debt repaid in the manner defined in the proposed law being limited in the applicable legislation only at the level of the public sector of the municipalities. Article 10 of the Law also limits the indebtedness of municipalities by providing that the threshold of 20% of debt in relation to the 8% debt repayment threshold can be exceeded only by borrowing investments in basic education, housing, water supply and public infrastructure, waste water management and investments co-financed by the European Union funds. By deleting the third paragraph of Article 10, municipalities shall be given the opportunity to be in charge of investments in all areas where the infrastructure to be provided by municipalities under the Local Self-Government Act does not meet the appropriate standard. The sources of funding for municipalities as defined in Article 7 are also other resources which should be regulated by law, contributions, donations and transfer revenue from municipal budgets, citizens' and legal persons' income, to co-finance certain tasks, projects and so on. This law repeals the Law on Municipal Taxes and at the same time prescribes that the congregation may prescribe a municipal tax for the use of public areas, advertising in public places. Where it will be further regulated, how can the congregation prescribe these taxes, for example, because there is no definition of what this city is. Whether these are just areas that are defined as public good or owned by the congregation. To the extent that the provision of Article 40 relating to the financing of family assistants, pending the transfer of these tasks to the provinces, is interpreted to mean that the municipalities will be reimbursed only in 2008 for the year 2007, this is not acceptable for the municipalities concerned, since this means a very high burden on their budget. So the law that we are considering today, the content that is before us today, is the law that is urgently needed to be finalized, the substantive law, where we will regulate autonomy, that is, or above all, the financial autonomy of local communities, where we will encourage municipalities to connect and where we will acquire new funds for the functioning of local communities, and especially for the necessary investments, but not primarily to redistribute existing funds in a way that you can take and give to someone else. At first glance, as has already been said today, the law can be a good bait to vote in favour of this law, because very quickly and if we look very superficially, we can find that all local communities, except for a few exceptions, are gaining. At least this is not a sufficient reason for the parliamentary group of Social Democrats to support this bill. It will take a lot of work, so to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič has the following word, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, welcome, Minister with colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate the independence of municipalities, including financial autonomy, which protects local self-government from State intervention. We advocate an increase in the direct income of the congregations. If a State delegates tasks under its jurisdiction to the municipalities, it must also be provided with the necessary financial resources. The new bill before us today is the answer to these efforts. Since this law ensures the proportionality of the sources of funding and the jurisdiction of the municipalities. It was only after 2004 that the municipalities were able to obtain funding for the transfer of new tasks to the local level. Such a principle is maintained in the proposed law, which lays down, by virtue of the principle of financial autonomy, that the municipality should be financed from its own resources and that financial resources must be in relation to tasks. The novelty of the law, which is in the New Slovenia Group of Members, is also welcomed by the fact that the State is obliged to provide the necessary funds and new tasks each year to agree separately with the representative associations of the municipalities. The proposed law increases financial autonomy and reduces the dependence on the financing of local public affairs on the additional resources of the state budget. The provision of funds to cover adequate spending and average costs is provided for from own revenue from the State budget’s decommissioned revenue. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal to provide municipalities with investment co-financing, including an additional 6% in the development programme plan, of course this will be achieved gradually by 2011 with 6% of total appropriate spending. The bill also provides for debt as a source of funding. As the new Public Finance Act is in preparation, it preserves the implementation of the provisions of the current Law on the Financing of Communities in Articles which prescribe the manner of indebtedness. The proposed law lays down the criteria for providing additional funding for the tasks performed by the municipalities, which constitute the provision of greater public interest and the development objectives of the State. Additional funds shall be provided to municipalities for the financing of mandatory tasks in the form of financial compensation, mandatory tasks to be financed by the municipality in a timely manner will be further regulated by the regulation of the Minister of Finance. Co-financing of individual tasks defined by a specific law or regulation, which also provides for means for the implementation of such tasks, such as addressing the consequences of natural disasters. For the co-financing of investments, the amount depends on the level of development of the municipality, which can be determined by the government and can be up to 100%, of course, of the justified costs is not a value added tax. Co-financing of the joint performance of the functions of the municipal administration or the so-called Joint Municipal Authority, as set out in 26b. Article which continues to mean that municipalities can obtain 50% of the funding to cover material costs and labour costs. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect to develop more objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of funds in more detail in the sub-legislative acts. Surely the bill does not correct all shortcomings. Among other things, it is unlikely that each congregation can calculate the amount of funds needed. The law maintains the 2005 debt system, it may be reasonable to consider that all debts are included in this debt quota and that the amount of all annuity should not exceed any percentage, namely the amount of this percentage should be determined by the profession in order to ensure the financial security of the municipality and public finances. Thus, we can simplify the area of congregation debt and leave it to the congregations to decide who and what purpose they will be in charge of. We know that the problem has been the compensation for the use of building land or that this problem has been drawn as a ditch of snakes in the past period, in particular in terms of calculus estimates of these heights. The question for the future remains to what extent it makes sense to burden citizens, given that for several years more this part of the compensation for the use of the building land remains at an appropriate level. The new law, among other things, also means redistribution of funds. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the new law provides more funding for the so-called rural municipalities, which we have been very committed to in the past. As of 1 January 2007, 210 municipalities will operate in Slovenia. In the Nova Slovenije Group, we are confident that the proposed law will contribute greatly to the increase in the autonomy and financial autonomy of all municipalities in Slovenia, so we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. And also Mr Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Fellow Members, Dear colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been stressing the importance of local communities and local self-government all the time, as an extremely important aspect of a democratic state. For the local community allows people in their territory to regulate those areas of social life that directly relate to the lives of the local population. In order to improve the quality of life of the population, it is also important to regulate the landscapes as well as other levels of local self-government in order to regulate those areas that go beyond the capacity of municipalities. We will soon deal with provincial legislation, but today we are considering a law on the financing of municipalities, which is extremely important for the functioning of the basic and only local self-government units. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always stressed the need to give greater emphasis to the principle of autonomy, the self-government of local communities, the principle of democratic governance and the principle of subsidiarity, as well as to the fundamental principles enshrined in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The increased autonomy of local self-government can only be achieved through reform of municipal funding. We are confident that some developmental competitive advantages can also be achieved through the reform of the Community funding system, which can keyly contribute to the faster development of our society and to the greater well-being of all citizens. In order to actually achieve a reduction in regional development differences, greater financial incentives need to be focused on the development lagging behind, as otherwise development differences do not decrease, as in practice so far. Therefore, the funding system of municipalities should also take into account the different circumstances that will enable such funding to be discussed after a certain period of time on the comparable development of municipalities in all parts of Slovenia. From the further development of local self-government and the degree of decentralisation of the country, it depends to what extent our administration will become more rational and flexible, thus making our society more competitive in Europe and the world. The current system of funding municipalities is in many cases lacking, which is apparent from the analysis presented by the applicant in the introduction of the proposal for a new law. In particular, there are important data indicating a large imbalance between own income and the population per municipality. This is logical, of course, because in 182 municipalities income represents more than 80% of its own funding resources. However, given the development of individual municipalities and in particular the distance from major centres, the revenue distribution is extremely uneven. For it is known that highly educated individuals who have higher incomes and who also pay higher incomes live near larger centres and cities. It is also very important that 64 municipalities receive financial compensation, which by 100% exceeds the income of municipalities. The applicable law also does not allow for sufficient resources to ensure that municipalities can fully finance local matters of public interest. It seems particularly problematic that the current funding system does not encourage municipalities to seek to provide additional own resources based on the economic development of the municipality. The funding system should be such that it literally forces the municipalities to move towards faster economic development. The high dependence of municipalities on financial compensation and consequently low own income constitute a serious shift from the general principle of community autonomy and therefore they need to be provided with more of their own financial resources. We consider the proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group as a good one, as it represents a positive shift towards a more successful functioning of local self-government. In particular, we welcome the aim of the law in order to ensure greater financial autonomy and a lower dependence on the financing of local public affairs from the additional resources of the state budget. The proposed law takes more into account the specificities of the municipalities which affect the level of costs and adjusts the calculation of the appropriate consumption of the municipality. The determination of appropriate spending is also based on the actual costs or resources needed to finance by the law of certain municipalities. This and a more even distribution of the revenue of the congregations, in our view, is more just than the regulation now in force. Of course, in general, more just regulation will also be subject to its tax. Some municipalities that have had or have had disproportionately high incomes under the current regime will be subject to an amended law to a loss. This is, of course, a fact and I am sure that when this law is adopted, the debate will go in particular and, of course, in the direction of this issue. How much is it, or is it not right, for a few congregations to receive fewer funds? Of course, if a person receives materially too much funds under the current arrangement and on this basis is comparable in view of all other congregations in a subordinate situation, such a system cannot be just. However, it is painful for each municipality to lose certain funds at some point, especially given that resources for development projects and investments are always insufficient. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposed law and we believe it is suitable for further consideration. But we will listen with all our attention to today's debate, and to all possible concerns. To the extent that we believe that the law in certain parts still needs to be finalized and corrected, we will, of course, support any amendments in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Now there is a general debate between Members and Members. The Minister would already like a word. Please, Minister, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. However, I would like to clarify certain things about this law in view of this introductory opinion. Next, as far as the congregation’s participation is concerned, I must say that the law was introduced to the congregations some time ago. We have also received feedback and, of course, we have included at least some of this feedback in this law within the scope of the possibility, so of course I strongly reject these claims that the law was not presented to the municipalities. Finally, the current calculations, because you know that the calculations will change all the time, have also been presented all the time. And perhaps, even though there is no Mr. Pečet here in the hall, which at the beginning is not a blind belief of the minister because all things are extremely calculated. And we deliberately use those elements in the very system of criteria that are exact and verifiable and are collected by individual competent ministries or services that are subordinated to it. And as for contacts, I must say that I personally participate in all these meetings regularly, both at one association and at another association, which are, in fact, those who are representatives of the congregations also in relations with our work. And throughout all these meetings, we have taken into account possible comments, of course, as regards the law itself. As far as the community funding system itself is concerned, I am fully aware that we will not be able to resolve this law now, I think this has already been said, in fact, all the problems that have accumulated through the system of financing local self-government itself, but not only through the law on the financing of municipalities, but also through a number of other legislation that needs to be regulated, corrected, but, of course, within given options. Other options are probably not available, as in the framework of the system we currently have. With regard to improving the state of the municipalities, I am convinced that with all the measures already taken in this national assembly, even with the help of this national assembly, of course, things are going in a positive direction, but it is true that this process will continue for some time and will need to continue. But I repeat, of course, again within the framework of even if you want to talk about finance, within the framework of public-financial capabilities. And of course all these elements have been taken into account as regards this law. Now, of course, with all these comments coming, as well as personal interviews, there is probably no mayor with whom I did not speak personally, including with Mr Ducman, who was mentioned here, we have spoken in person and for the first time I have heard about such concerns that have been raised today. However, I must say that I am also with many others, it is also necessary to say that it is impossible for one law to cover the specifics of all 210 municipalities we have in Slovenia. This is impossible and the previous solutions were covered by one law and also this law, of course, covers the financing of municipalities throughout the entire segment of the municipalities. In principle, however, all congregations have comparable or practical tasks. No matter what happens to the city’s congregations. However, the question is also within which priorities or tasks, of course, individual municipalities give particular weight and particular emphasis, and I strongly oppose the fact that the law is directed against culture or sport, because there are different needs in different environments. Finally, the smallest municipality must also have certain opportunities in the field of culture and sport. We will not say that sport and culture take place only in the largest municipalities. Maybe there's only one thing I'd like to point out. This law is not the law of the capital, we must be aware of it. It's a law on local self-government. He talks about covering local self-government tasks, as regards Ljubljana as the capital, he has a special law. This law was passed, I think, two years ago and this law must also be enforced. And this is a task on the one hand also of city authorities, on the other hand probably of another partner in this story, but this appropriate initiative is also needed. Now, as far as the funding of the municipalities is concerned, I am confident and repeat once again that the philosophy of this law that we have proposed, based on all the stories that have been happening over and over, and on the basis of all the possibilities that we have had at our disposal, we have analysed these things very thoroughly, and I must also say that certain data are extremely lacking. This is also why some of the things in the law are set up in this direction, in some way in the final phase from a cost-effective point of view, so that they can actually and realistically know what we are talking about. I think it's very common to talk a little bit about what the costs are. We did the analysis, the analysis was done purely through a statistical approach, because there were no other options, namely an analysis of funding in the past period and this analysis also served as a starting point and in this financial framework all net investments were eliminated. The other segments of funding for municipalities also in the field of economy, agriculture, others, were in fact covered in the determination of principals themselves or those costs, but again. As far as the law is concerned. The basic idea of marriage goes in two directions. On the one hand, we are trying to achieve more equitable funding through this law for tasks across the entire territory of Slovenia, which simply means that citizens and citizens will have comparable opportunities wherever they live. They'll never have exactly the same. And they're very different and very specific, but comparable. And the law goes in this direction and in this part this solution has been proposed to cover the tasks with the proportions of the tax derogations, irrespective of the origin of the taxes. If we look at these taxes, I can agree that there are certain concerns here, as well as in terms of autonomy, but we must be aware that the distribution of these taxes is extremely uneven across Slovenia and even if, say, the law of the current funding of the municipalities was still, say, bearable eight years ago as it was adopted, it is necessary to realize that the income, which was the basis of the financing as income, was collected or collected in such a way that these income-generating scissors were essentially spreading, and that the most developed part has always been better, but the rest has always been worse and this difference has only increased and this income spiral has essentially increased and this is the largest part of the reallocation. And I must say that I was surprised by the analysis myself because it also happened that after we recalculated things, we saw that the other congregations, including the municipalities, were also receiving additional resources from the title of this law. And given that the disproportionateity of any practical duty is so high, the decision has gone in this direction to cover the tasks through the financing system in a way that it is a derogation tax, irrespective of its origin in this part. As regards autonomy in this part alone, it should be pointed out that the law provides for a solution that, in the coming period, when the costs are also significantly better known, the municipalities will be involved in determining the principals themselves. Through both associations, each time the budget is adopted for the next period, the municipalities of the partners are in these negotiations, which has not been the case so far, and since this has not been the case so far, it is likely that, in the previous mandate, the tasks without financial resources have occurred or have led to this difficult situation, which must now be resolved. The municipalities will, of course, be partners in this part. We can also talk about some other possible solutions, but in view of the specifics, we have decided on this possible solution as regards the ongoing coverage of tasks. In the second part, we are trying to achieve a higher degree of autonomy. This is by deductible tax revenue, by concessions and some other revenue. At the moment, the largest share of the building land compensation, which, once adopted, is intended to replace the property tax, which is also a European practice and which must enable this part of its own development tasks. By not repeating once again that one part of the development tasks is also through the economy and some other areas, including through ongoing funding, through the capital alone. Of course, it will be possible for the law to be fully brought to life, as it is now proposed, only in five years' time, because these things needed to be placed within the public financial framework itself. Finally, the law itself had to adopt or take into account the consequences of the new tax legislation. Without this law, the consequences are even greater because they are actually negative if this law is not adopted, of course, when tax legislation is adopted. As far as redistribution is concerned, all I would mention is that not even nearly a new law goes solely on the basis of the reallocation of financial resources. We must be aware that, already in last year and this year, we have provided additional financial resources through an increase in income, not income, but through an increase in adequate spending, and also in the 2007 budget, or in the 2007 budget balance and the 2008 budget. So it's not almost just a redistribution charge. However, I must also say that the dynamics themselves are also dependent on public financial capacity, because the interests of the entire budget need to be taken into account. Perhaps in this part I would mention only that we absolutely accept and welcome all the comments and we will examine them thoroughly. Of course, it is also our intention to improve the law through this debate in areas where it can be improved. Of course, it is necessary, once again, to be aware of the possibilities, the starting points that we have at our disposal, as well as the reality of the solutions that we can bring through this law in the coming period. And last but not least, I am sure that, of course, the local self-government is a process that will continue to develop, which will continue and, of course, will change and complement this law also in relation to the coming provinces. That's it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much for further clarifications. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members. My view is that in this mandate, the municipalities have seen better times, better times in the past two years, when more resources and better times were essential for local self-government, including this new law on the financing of municipalities, which is proposed so that I fully believe we are on the right track. In the debate and presentation of the views that has been made so far, it has also been said that this law will make the municipality in a good or bad situation in view of the political compatibility with the current authority. I must say that I do not agree with this, but I do not agree for these reasons, because I have spoken to many mayors who, at the end of our rule of opposition, and I must say that, apart from the rare exceptions, have all praised the government's relationship with the coalition to local self-government, to the municipalities and also to the proposal of the new law in most cases are positively assessed in such a way that I think that this claim, which has been made, is not true. It is very important to me that this law will significantly increase the number of those municipalities that will be self-financing or will no longer depend on financial compensation if we know that under the existing law these were neither 10% nor approximately 10% of those self-financing. I would also mention municipalities from Soča - Tolmin, Kobarid, Bovec and Idrija, as well as Cerkno, in connection with the financing of municipalities and with the old financing law, submitted a constitutional complaint in that part concerning the financing and maintenance of municipal roads. These congregations are large in scope, have many scattered settlements, and many roads. Tolmin municipality has 450 km of roads to compare, especially in the hilly area, these roads are poor, and winter maintenance is very expensive. I think that the proposal of this law has somehow responded to this dilemma, or that those who have initiated a constitutional complaint have made it right in this sense because the calculations show and go in this direction that more resources are needed for these purposes to be allocated to municipalities such as the Tolmin and similar. So my view is that the law is true, I agree that it could be even better, and if any amendments are proposed in such a form that we see that the law can be improved in our parliamentary group and I personally support it, but I certainly think that the starting point is as good as it is, and I will personally support it, I will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Finally, in this Slovenia, what has finally happened is what some who have been offering to one municipality for eight years, we know local self-government well and we know the funding of municipalities so far. In Slovenia we have 210 municipalities, which are extremely different from each other, nor can the city municipality be counted as a common denominator. What is the difference between Slovenia Graz and Ljubljana? Huge, incomparable, both municipalities are, not to mention those small, medium and large municipalities that have exceptional specificities and ways to make the key to the financing of Slovenian municipalities, in order to be honest with each Slovenian municipality is essentially impossible. In the preparation of this law, there was a lot of coordination, cooperation with municipalities, with both institutions covering Slovenian municipalities, with individual mayors, and probably also professional services at this ministry have put a lot of effort through. The practice so far has shown that this law is not appropriate, is not appropriate, the main financing of income, income in Ljubljana or one Premur municipality is an essential difference. That the law doesn't stimulate your own income is the wrong world. Each must fight for his own income and each congregation. Unfortunately, that wasn't necessary. And I think that this extension, which is now being prepared by the Ministry in my deep conviction, and I speak in most Slovenian mayors, is also extremely positive, perhaps those four, five mayors may be less satisfied, the others certainly accept positively, at least in my opinion, this law is as one positive step in the right direction. I am sure that every Slovenian municipality wants to develop more quickly. I'm sure every mayor, every municipal council he has, wants it. However, without adequate funding, a stimulating, equal and equivalent one for each congregation, this is difficult to establish. I am sure that this law will also not be optimal for every Slovenian municipality, but it will be a big step in the direction Slovenia as a country wants future provinces to be as balanced as possible, as evenly distributed these finances across all Slovene municipalities, from those smallest of the few hundred inhabitants to those of the towns, Ljubljana, Maribor, Nova Gorica and so on. In short, we are talking a lot about decentralisation and some concrete steps have not yet been taken; I believe there will be future provinces. However, the fact that we supported some positive changes, more money for Slovenian municipalities, was also a real step. I think that investing in Slovenian municipalities with more money is certainly a good investment, which with one tolar is certainly as much as a country with three. That's what I hope to say on the basis of practical cases. Whether it is the construction of the infrastructure, one way or another, it is certainly more rational, economical and more transparent to spend its revenues through the state budget and through its own revenues. And such an investment in such a place is certainly a good investment, I think. I also believe that with greater autonomy of municipalities, especially greater financial autonomy of municipalities, the municipal councils, mayors and municipal administrations will certainly work even more successfully. This is certainly also the trend of the country, the desire of the country, Slovenia as such to try to achieve greater autonomy of Slovenian municipalities in this area, so future provinces are a real and positive step. Of course, I know that Slovenian municipalities have very different structures of their budget expenditure, either domestic care, kindergartens, school transport, social services and so on. The differences are enormous. They're paying, I don't know, 10% of the kindergarten budget, only five somewhere, less. School transports - about 6, 7, 8% of the school transport budget, it is possible for 1 or 2%. These are enormous differences that will not be visible anywhere within the budget, nor will they be seen tomorrow. These are facts, but we are very different, large, small, medium, municipalities with their specifics have such and different costs, one has more of them, the other have more of them. But all of this makes it difficult for each Slovenian congregation to make a special law on financing. This is difficult, perhaps impossible, although the mayors would probably want it to be different for one congregation or another. However, I am sure that this debate and all the many debates that have taken place are in the best interests of a better law than there is. And I am sure that this will have a positive effect on the future faster development of local self-government and, above all, that the resources that we really receive or will get in the coming years are actually what I think is the development of Slovenia as a whole big step in the right direction. I would hardly agree with those who today have been so critical of this law. Let them prepare a better one for themselves! It's the easiest thing to criticize, it's not good, it's not good. And whoever that is, I'm gonna say ugly, spit on this marriage, make a better one! And if I can do better than that, I will be very happy as a mayor and a member of the National Assembly, but the worst part is that it is easier to criticize some work that I have estimated was also with both communities, with all the other much effort invested and work that they have come to some foundation that is always possible to upgrade. Definitely. This is the end of the first debate, and I believe that today, which will continue to be discussed, there is still room for improvement in the next reading to prepare this budget. However, one skeleton, one frame, however, is made, indicating a positive trend in the development of local self-government. Dear Members! I believe and hope that this first debate will be a success and that the Ministry will, in accordance with the regional procedure, prepare these comments, which will be recorded today through today's debate, and in the next step also with any amendments, this matter, which I believe is the most important for local self-government, will be improved, and let us not look at left or right here. We would do well to view ourselves as Members of all Slovenian municipalities, because we have mayors of such and different, customer preparedness and everyone wants the best in their municipalities. And if we follow this, regardless of who proposes, it is important to propose something, then we will certainly improve the law, and that is certainly also the desire of the Ministry as such and the government as a whole, to take one important step in terms of what has not been so far. Unfortunately, so far, differences have been enormous between Slovenian municipalities in terms of funding and that some have essentially been drinking blood, while others have had money that they did not know where to go with it. This is the wrong world, I'm sorry, that was it. And I think that this balance will certainly give a more rapid development to the local community of future provinces and countries than to the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving from Sevnica to Bovec, and Mr Krivec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities that we have before us certainly improves certain starting points for the operation of municipalities. In the past, as has been said, there have been considerable differences between the congregations. The criteria that this bill actually takes into account, from the size of municipalities, to the length of roads, to important infrastructure criteria, to the age of the population, which affects both the family assistant and the financing of kindergartens, education and so on, have not been taken into account. So that most of those comments that were made by the congregations to the Ministry are somehow covered by this law. Of course, it must be realized that no law automatically promotes any development, but it depends on each congregation. And in this context, I think that the law that we discussed at first reading some month ago on public-private partnership was one of the good instruments that can help the municipalities to develop much more quickly and qualitatively. The second segment, which is very important, is road infrastructure. When we look at the statistics on migration in the last period, and somewhere from the 1990s to this point, we see the latest statistics for 2002 that are not really that much of an impact on where development is increasing. There's no dependence on funding here. Whoever looks at this map will find that the main development actually takes place at the highway crossing, that all other areas where there are no quality road links stagnate, regardless of the fact that certain municipalities essentially have sufficient resources. This aspect is not negligible and needs to be taken seriously. Earlier mention was made of Bovška and Posočje. Whoever looks at this map will find that, irrespective of whether I am not in the position that these municipalities are underfunded or underactive, but the actual indicators show that it is in fact a population decline and that development is not as intense as in other areas that have been possible even in the past after development. However, there is a very large causal link in this particular infrastructure work, in road links where the railway is not actually that important. And this map is very, I'd say, visual. So that even those parts that were sometimes underdeveloped, Prekmurje and Goričko and similar things, from these statistics actually no longer show this because they have better connections at least somewhere to Maribor. However, there appears to be a trend in the decline of the population in larger cities, which is again due to the fact that people from larger cities actually move to jobs and that these marginal municipalities actually receive more money through income through this outflow. All these anomalies or exceptions will have to be taken into account in this law. And I think that this debate on the law is right and that, through this first debate and later consideration of this law, we can actually come up with a better instrument for funding municipalities than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and the expected debate, it can be assumed that the proposed law will be adopted at first reading. I think that those who choose to do so will also take responsibility for the direction of the development of local self-government that this law will give. I agree that it is difficult for 210 Slovenian municipalities to prepare criteria that meet everyone, because we are too big by size, level of development, geographical circumstances and many more. Talking about whether the law meets the criteria that we want, that is greater autonomy in the financial view of the municipalities, or meeting the criteria that it will stimulate its own activity, prescribing its own sources of revenue of municipalities, in order to stimulate the attracting of capital, which will also change the structure of employees and thus the most controversial issue of income, which is, I would say, another topic. I don't think this law works, or at least it doesn't work enough. To determine that it must be sufficient for almost all or a large majority of all, such as the congregations are now constituted and the financing of the tasks that these congregations have under our legislation, but the question is whether it will not freeze some condition and help to make greater progress. I'm afraid of that and that's why I'm very skeptical of the great praises that some colleagues and colleagues have given. You said, income was a poor criterion, you said, with income it was true that a single financial resource was much better defined or to a greater extent determined than today because we're shutting it down. The independence of funding and direct resources will be reduced, but we support the law because it supports the financial autonomy of the municipalities. I don't understand. It doesn't work together. The financial autonomy of the municipalities is not supported by this law. Let's agree together to let the government speak, but tell the ruling coalition that we don't want to do this or we can't do this because we have such a structure of the municipalities and we need to set different criteria for this structure, for the tasks that we have laid down in the Local Self-Government Act for this structure and for the purposes that we have achieved, because today I hope to say to my colleagues that someone wants a successful local self-government and someone wants to block it is neither objectively nor properly. We all want, at least not words after elections, successful local self-government, because we know that it means progress in places, because we know that it means greater engagement of people because I agree that many times or most of them also means greater rationality or certain synergistic effects of many elements that cannot be guaranteed from the top for every place in Slovenia, but some fundamental goals I think do not guarantee. The second thing I would like to say is, I do not understand how it is possible to speak at the same time about the consent of all municipalities, and at the same time to read a letter from the Slovenian municipalities, which we all received on 27 October, I do not know what this means, but this letter means that, in the opinion of the Slovenian Communities, there was little cooperation, it means that the criteria are not sufficiently clearly presented and that we can see what the actual situation will be. They believe that now was not a mature and appropriate time when we were also preparing elections for this and proposing that the law be adopted only to enter into force only from 1.1.2008. At the same time, you all say that with the exception of four, five mayors, everyone else agrees and thinks that these are good and wonderful solutions are probably very difficult. And the last thing I'm going to say is that I don't understand, I'm disappointed and even bitter if you want the fact that in the whole concept of local self-government, the competent minister doesn't see the problem of Ljubljana, I don't understand, I don't understand. I am not saying that the funding system was ideal, good, okay, but with the new law of solutions from which you will do 15%, 16% of the resources of the largest local community, which is at the same time the capital, take to be so carefree that you say, because there is a law in the capital, but this government has done nothing in two years with the implementation of this law, not to admit that we have a common interest in the development of the capital, I must say that I do not understand and that is the only reason I can be against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor. If I'm very generous, you have 22 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	I'm just suggesting to the Minister that it may be possible to consider or not to halve the percentage in Article 38 talking about [[..]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] compensation for the use of building land and other taxes on the calculation of the principal, so that we can get to the financial autonomy of the municipalities more quickly. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanov has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Member of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we have shown support for all legislation in this mandate, which supported or improved the financial situation of municipalities, as well as for more funds in the budget for the appropriate consumption of municipalities. The proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, which I will also support this time, because I think that the majority of municipalities also have more resources and less dependence on the state. However, I have some suggestions that have also come to me from the mayors, people who meet in the field with the funding of the projects for which the municipality is responsible. Indeed, the whole concept of financing municipalities is not substantially changed, the formula is maintained, but certain factors corrected to improve the situation in this area are not corrected, so let us say in the road area for which municipalities are in charge, for these local roads, public roads, and it seems to me that it is not enough to take into account the length of roads, residents and surfaces, to take into account also the natural situation, relief, climatic conditions, already several mayors, Members before me, to say that large costs are for winter service, for gliding and no matter whether there is a municipality in Primorske, there are also differences, say, in the coastal area where there are large costs for winter maintenance, where snow is not available, while the coastal municipality does not have this cost. And this funding could also be considered in this law. It also seems to me that it has not been completed in law or that it would need further clarification as to the financing of investments in border areas, in areas that are at risk, which are lagging behind, which may not have invested enough so far in investments, such as education, buildings, health care and similar facilities for which the congregation is in charge, but perhaps more emphasis could be placed on how the municipalities should develop evenly in this area. It seems to me that this funding for the new congregations is well regulated in the law. This is also temporary funding of municipalities until the legal and property situation is settled. I understand this article, which speaks of the prohibition of the indebtedness of new municipalities until their property is settled in this direction. I understand that the new congregations would be able to make up for themselves as soon as possible and to share this property or the relationship between themselves. As I said before, I'm going to support the marriage, but there might be something else to work out in this direction that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since some Members have checked out or some have not checked out, Mr Trofenik already has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. If we are to evaluate the law or its consequences, of course, we need to set some criteria. The first criterion to be raised is whether or not it contributes to the decentralisation of financial resources or to the greater financial autonomy of local communities. The answer is clear, no. Although the profession knows this solution as one of the possible solutions. When it is not possible or unwilling, or willing to choose the right tax resources, the appropriate dispersion of these tax resources, and so on, to resort to the resolution of subsidies from the State budget. This case follows this, it is said or unwilling, or it is not ready to say that there is no knowledge, I would not hope to say that. This is said to be a conscious decision and withdrawing back, that is to say, it is a step back in the decentralisation of finances. It is not willing to seek additional suitable resources than Europe knows, those to which we want to compare ourselves. I think that there are too many comparisons with the East, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the like, but not enough with those who have long experience with local self-government and finance. I miss Bavaria, I miss Switzerland, and I miss anyone else, like Sweden, but not to copy them, but to try to learn something from them. It is not even willing to accept a source as evenly distributed as a possible source such as a registration fee. According to the Slovenian weakness, which are passenger cars, it is true that the registration fee is almost as uniformly distributed across Slovenia as the population per municipality. And, of course, logic is the deviation of the registration fee, for the first time, the substantive link to the transport problem or infrastructure needed to do so. It is also known how much traffic takes place on local roads, how much by state roads and how much by motorways. And for this reason, it would make sense - the Slovenian profession, even less politics or even more politics, does not want to listen to the fact that excise duties are made elegantly shared as a source. In the Slovenian profession, they even claimed that VAT cannot be shared, but it can be done because there are known experiences from Europe. And despite the criticism and indeed the weaknesses of our public finances or, if you want, the tax system, when it comes to wage taxes, is interesting that on the payroll there is a lower tax, of course, but is present in these European countries or, if you want, Western European countries - present as a source of corporate income tax as well. And in relation to the goals we set ourselves, this is a whole bunch of resources to achieve the dispersion, stability and financial autonomy of local communities. The way goes, I don't know why, in another direction that's not appropriate, which will prove to be bad for a short and long time, which I'll talk about later. The second criterion is the appropriateness of determining the appropriate consumption or the known formula. As I said today, the more you read the law, the more you deepen it, the more you're sure it's a conflict between two philosophies - the philosophy of bureaucratic spending guaranteed before 1998, which some proponents or opponents of the system of appropriate spending always wanted to return, and apparently now it's coming back, whether it's want or not, to a door. If I say so as a percentage, those philosophies are even more in this law than the philosophies of appropriate spending, which means a framework for some autonomy and freedom and the actual diversity of funding within a particular local community. The formula itself was created in 1998, based on knowledge and statistics at the time. Although the weights were calculated on the basis of three- or four-year funding analyses, those analyses were obviously not well processed in time, but on the other hand, there have been radical changes on the cost side by laws or by-laws prescribed so that the formula to some extent is useless or needs to be substantially modified. This change that the law brings is a simple redistribution, redistribution with all the flaws and formulas it has. In 2001, the Institute of Law found in its analysis that the first weight relating to the surface was inadequate and that it was 100% too large. Depending on the same conclusion, I came up with two years of analysis of the then final accounts of all municipalities. However, you increase the applicants from 0.5 to 0.6 at the same time increase the weight in roads. Both parameters have approximately the same effect. The fact is that the parameter in roads is currently valid or weight, pardon, not parameter, inadequate, is too low. He remained, I will say, what I do not know to the public as a result of the compromise in the law in the formula, because it was originally thought of as a criterion exclusively a kilometer of local roads, not public roads. That the law applied instead of a kilometer of local roads to public roads, the political compromise was that the support reached was sufficient to adopt those amendments at the time 1998. Of course, it is necessary to know this and it must be based on the fact that 0.13 is absolutely too much, especially since it has the effect of linking to that weight abnormally, and here is the fundamental problem of this movement not only from urban to rural, it also makes enormous differences between rural communities. Two new municipalities created there with the same number of people from the current congregation, only one in the east, the other in the west, have a difference, and one in the case of a corresponding consumption of 200 and another 300 million, which is unacceptable. Of course, this formula requires decomposition or upgrade. The biggest weight is the costs associated with the young generation, because everything in the existing one is from kindergartens, youth sports, and youth culture to primary schools. In the meantime, from 1998 to today, the costs of child protection have increased so enormously as a result of the under-law, not of any legal act, that this cost must be separated from the cost and the corresponding weight should be sought from the cost, for example, for primary schools and what is linked to primary schools also for school transport. Why? Since the costs of pre-school education and childcare are not only dependent on the coverage of children in kindergartens, they are also directly dependent on the income of the "percapita" because the state code is such and it is necessary to combine this cost with three indicators, the coverage of children in kindergarten, the population in relation, the income of the "percapita" and, of course, it is necessary to be aware, now that if any data has been altered lately, I have two years old data, then above 17 municipalities, I think there was no kindergarten at all, so these 17 municipalities have no costs with materials, with buildings. Children were raised in neighboring congregations. However, the ratio was 1:2. If Ljubljana is, some have over 80% of the generation, those who go to preschool education, some have been under 0.4 and, of course, the costs are related to this combination, so one parameter of the cost of young people simply cannot be solved, it has to be broken down, upgraded and upgraded. The next is the population of the elderly. There's a similar situation. It is not only an important proportion of older people over 65 years of age, because the cost comes from home care and home care or home care, and this must be combined with parental care, because it is a force different from the congregation to the congregation, both for home care and for help at home, and secondly, the cost of the congregation depends on the income of the "percapita" because the system is such that the congregation hides the difference between what the self-payer or the guardian or his neighbour cannot, depending on the regulations, is the next step. Then an important cost to be measured by unemployment with another indicator is the cost of health insurance for unemployed persons. This depends directly on the level of unemployment in the congregation, the indicators are clear, the weights are not difficult to find. This is just a few arguments or urgently needed changes to the formula to be correct, realistic and useful. There is still something to be taken into account in the formula. In my opening remarks, I drew attention to the position of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, covered in the 2001 report, which is how our Slovenian knowledge and all sparrows are already chirping that the system is so set up that it literally forces fragmentation, which is not in favour of the quality of local self-government, because there is more fragmentation, even less jurisdiction and so water on mills [[?]] Every day more centralisation, whether you want to admit it or not. Of course, the arrangements for me to skip talking about mergers, I must warn them that they should be seriously studied by the proponents. Of course, the ratio of 1% of the supplements is unresponsible that I will not say anything else, because, of course, I hope you are aware that the proper consumption of the congregation is not the sum of the appropriate consumption or vice versa, the consumption at the time of dissipation is not in the opposite direction. And it can be bigger, it can be smaller or it can be somewhere in the middle, so those 1.5% supplements are of course little possible too frivolous, but it is very easy with a simple calculation or mathematics of secondary school to solve this problem by setting up a level of appropriate, correction factor that degrades division and honors combining function is easy, in the first grade of elementary school they learn it, and it is called a logarithm. And it has also been tested in practice in the Swiss system. What has now arisen from this formula and other corrections - I must first say that in 1998 it was embarrassing how to recognise in the formula or past the formula the costs that were actually already there, but some have also increased with some institutions that are normally in the municipalities or in the cities, even in municipalities that are not urban, so there have been such decisions, over the finger, with 8% addition to the municipalities and 4% for the seats of the administrative units. Eliminating this, the additional resources, is nicely said, irresponsible. This denies all institutions that are of wider importance or that are only urban and only as an expense present in cities or in such municipalities, and are generally absent in the second half. There are also examples of them being in other environments, such as libraries, such as municipal museums, not those cultural institutions that you are talking about in transitional provisions that are somewhat above 30 and still today their funding system is not regulated and is being postponed to some later times, and that is, of course, to the detriment of these environments. This measure, which you have taken by proposing, would once have been said by my fellow praiser, is not European. In Europe you will find examples, I have previously talked about Austrian, which are similar, but they are more robust supplements for actual costs, of course, depending on competence and actual life, which is not necessarily the same as ours. Of course, if I repeat that in Austria, a correction factor of more than 10,000 people has one whole third for a municipality of more than 50,000 inhabitants, the correction factor of two whole one third is the same for Vienna as the capital. Then, of course, it is extremely unacceptable for Ljubljana to be placed on the lowest factor, that is 0.8. No congregation of 210 has a minor factor based on this, and of course it is denying status, not just the capital and please, there is no solution in that special law, that special law on the capital is more so cosmetics, virtually there are no consequences. This is also denial of the legal and constitutional role of the city’s municipalities. I will point out only one thing: two of these are known powers, because the municipalities do not have any special rights or duties with us, but they have the duty and the opportunity to organise public transport, for the costs of public transport, which are generally subsidised and we do not recognise a single tolar of Slovenian, let alone to recognise one euro. It's a similar thing with high school. I warn you, the city council can establish a high school as one of the few rights of the city’s municipalities that they do not have and could still list. So one would expect the opposite, I warn you, of reading numbers without a substantive analysis leading to such acts. This proverbial, I would say, indigestion on the part of Ljubljana, that it had a great difference, or that it has a current law between income and appropriate consumption, is more guilty or there are two reasons, on the one hand, a truly uneven distribution of income, which is strongly in favour of Ljubljana, and on the other hand is already insufficient use for Ljubljana, which is now 0.9, similar to it, and it is unacceptable to reduce it. Some calculations have shown that if you want to be correct for Ljubljana at least 20% above average, this is 1.2, that Ljubljana should finance everything that is illogical today in Ljubljana. The fact is, however, it is not possible that in the prices of this year, that is to say, when the chieftain or because of the conceptual confusion, I will also apologize, because under the new law something other than we are used to talking in the past about principality, I will say that according to the old law, proper consumption per capita 103.636 is due to the abolition of 0.8 municipal allowance savings of 5 billion 789 million, and generally they lose the municipal municipalities 10 billion and 121 million, the ratio between the lowest coefficient in the current law and the highest, the minimum is 0.90, so that I do not speak to all decimals, which is 1.99, this ratio is 1:2,19. With the new law these scissors are opened within the limits of 0.83 to 2.39, meaning 1:2.87 or significantly too large because it is always an indicator of a bad system, not a good system. At 10 billion it is necessary to be aware that the municipalities are concerned that about 35% of the Slovenian population lives in municipalities where administrative units are currently established and that there is an additional 36 or 721,000 people, and that 4% of the population is taken from the municipality, which is partially compensated by the modified formula, so that out of 46 municipalities with administrative units, 29 are reduced by the appropriate consumption and 17 is increased and the total effect is half the negative, half the lower than I said before. However, the combined negative effect for the municipalities and those where the administrative units are established is 11.5 billion in prices this year, which does not speak, cannot talk about quality and, of course, there is a legal need to separate. It's a difference in the right consumption, it's not income yet. Of course, to some extent, I hope that it is, forgive the expression, kiks, but if it is conscious it is very bad that the methodological tables are not good because they point to the future consumption of the number but not to the present in order to compare. Of course, everyone who read this so superficially said that because the marriage is good, we all get more, but it's not really that; in fact, 77 congregations are losing and 145 are getting them. Of those 77 who lose are all 11 urban, there are 29 where the administrative units are located and there are 37 others. This is a comparison of the correction factor or the value of rounding if, according to home, primary schooling, because this is essential, not counting into tolars, because we can only calculate as much as we can, and if we increase the average as it is now supposed to be, then of course we cannot compare the current and future numbers, that is resentment. Of course, 145 municipalities, due to inadequate weight gain and this is this general result, which goes from urban mainly in another direction and today was the right conclusion, once again, one of the discussants, that the surface cannot be "handy kep", that it can also be a plus and that a lot of consideration of the surface is leading in the wrong direction. In the announcement, explanation or presentation of the law, as well as by the Minister of Finance, when he spoke about the budget, he stressed the diversity that was so present that it was taken into account. I must say that there is no additional indicator in the calculation of the appropriate consumption or you want the effect of diversity, none. It is exclusively a reallocation without part of the professional basis for this by increasing the weight of roads and surfaces. Then where is this diversity? It is denied, however, that the actual diversity should be taken into account in the cost of child protection, once again, because of the different coverage in kindergartens, because of the different incomes of families or if you want the income of the 'percapita', because all of this is calculated solely on the basis of the income decisions. That this is the case with the costs of the older generation, it is a matter of household protection and home care, and again this is linked to income. That the cost of health insurance was directly linked to the level of unemployment, that the 'cestaria' was and seems to remain an eternal problem, which would also have to be solved differently. Discussants have warned, the naked mileage of public roads and local roads is not a good parameter and it should be upgraded not only because of the different meteorological conditions that ultimately result in the various costs of winter services, there are other matters. We do not have a systemicly solved problem of cities and state roads through cities. We are so disorderly that the road through the city is maintained by the state, the municipality’s sidewalks and both the investment and maintenance costs of the sidewalk along the running metro are at least the same if not higher than the costs related to local roads. Neither the present nor the new law take this into account. Of course, maintaining this is much more expensive, and it is once again a handicap for those who have sidewalks for the safety of citizens, not for advertising, and so on. It's the head. The proposer has decided, as I said before, for an unknown reason - whether it is a matter of unwillingness or something else - to seek appropriate resources to compensate for this with principal or principal income, where it is a purely ordinary transfer from the state budget. So this is a decisive step from financial autonomy, as it has been achieved, back to almost complete dependence on the state budget. But there is something even worse - if there are now surpluses in some municipalities due to the inadequate distribution of the basic source of income, there are now 19 billion surpluses consciously, with a simple accounting operation called the linear function resulting in 19 billion surpluses, I think that in 106 or some similar municipalities where the calculation is so- obviously not justified anywhere, why 0.30 and 0.7 - where the principal is only partially dependent on the amount of appropriate consumption, and partly depends on 30% of the average consumption per capita in Slovenia, in the proportion represented by the population of the municipality in the population of Slovenia. And I wonder where that makes sense. I would understand something else - that the proposalr would say that if we have decided on grants from the state budget, we will cover the appropriate spending in full from transfers of the state budget. There would be no financial compensation, there would be no surplus, indeed. Now consciously, with a mathematical operation, not a random variable, there are 19 billion surpluses. Anyway, it's too much now. Is that a new quality? The current surplus is due to the distribution, which is a random function of income. The Ljubljana Mayor has nothing to do with the fact that there is so much income in Ljubljana and there is no fault in the countryside that there is as much income as there is. Financial balancing or criteria through financial settlement. It should be borne in mind that this financial settlement is a completely different definition than we have been used to so far. The financial adjustment is no longer the difference between the appropriate consumption and the own revenue included in this, but the difference between the two, I will say, the national figures determined by the State, between the appropriate consumption and the principal income. But the principal's income is as fixed as I said before. We wonder why it is necessary not to repeat the words spoken earlier. And what is the whole effect? The effects are 4.8 billion, with more costs for the state budget. This is recognised by the applicant in his explanation and the fact is that there will be 51 billion and some less revenue in the state budget, and 46 billion less costs will be incurred in the financial settlement. All of this is a naked confiscation of this law and a redistribution that is criminal. Apparently, it's criminal and inconsistent, and then we wonder what we've accomplished with it. In financial autonomy we took a step back, we got 4.8 billion additional funds, I don't know the comparison of Europe, but when we were there about 5, that was about 5.2% of GDP, only the Turks were still behind us, obviously with this 5.2 we didn't take one step on this scale forward, and I ask that about Turkey that someone with some chauvinism wouldn't understand. We have been so far in the last place, Turkey is actually a European state. And one wonders where are the results of this marriage. I am aware, and I do not want to hear the obvious that a person would be unrealistic, that it is possible to skip the system of public finances very easily, that the structure within, but even if we include that 3% at the beginning or goal 6 for investments, it is also clearly not enough. Co-financing of investments is one of the following biggest flaws or weaknesses, unfortunately, of this law. I think it's wrong already in an existing correction that's not old enough, we know, it's the wrong definition. European legislation is comparable. Small grants for investments that are being made flat-rately, which the local community can spend and only report, and other calls such as we have. That's not the problem. The problem is that local communities need to be able to invest. This means that those who receive financial compensation do not have a purposeful resource. Those who have zero or have too little have enough. [[...]] Therefore, the law, without defining a global, global investment fund, had to guarantee to the individual municipality that it would be able to invest. This is said to provide by law an appropriate automatic grant which must be made for investments which must be spent on purpose. The global definition of how much the country will spend on investment aid falls into the budget and now, if this is the case, the continuation is very strange, as was the strange procedure in the last adoption of the law. The criterion of how these investment funds will be shared between the excused and the necessary is absent. This case says that up to 100% of the investment can be co-financed from the state budget, this is from a public-financial point of view, forgive the expression, irresponsible and means direct silence. There is no need to worry about investing in the congregation, but it will come to them in one way or another. Of course, the articles say something about a criterion that should help, which, if you'll excuse me, is wrong. The Development Hazard Index, which came from another document, cannot be the correct criterion for co-financing investments. The profession knows another index, the index of financial power, could be translated into Slovenian. This is the relationship between the income of the congregation and the proper consumption, times 100, that I am not evil because the word index in the law is wrongly used. And that would be a more appropriate criterion. Once again, it is not possible to agree to the argument that, in Article 24, the listed components of this developmental hazard index are in direct relation to individual investments, and that they could have an impact. The municipality needs subsidies or co-financing of investments solely because it itself cannot. When he can and when he can't, he needs to be measured with someone more objective, I've been talking about him, an indicator like gross added value to an employee. How does the gross value added of an employee in the congregation depend on investment in primary school or in a road or a kilometer of water or something like that? There's no connection here. How does this depend on income? Only if it was a self-contribution, but it's practically not. There's no connection to income. Such or other investment, of course, if someone does not mean contribution, municipal, to equip with it, but it is something else. This Or, how is the cost or share in co-financing of primary school, kindergarten, not to mention anything else, depending on the number of jobs per number of active population? [[...]] There's no correlation here. This is useful for some other purposes, but unfortunately not for investments. Also less about Nature 2000. Natura 2000 is usually an obstacle to investment, it does not increase costs, it is an obstacle, you simply cannot invest, or you cannot build a public building because of Nature 2000, very few times or very little correlation would be in relation to costs, and even less with the number of cultural monuments available to the public. This, I'm sorry, miswritten coefficient, which calls me the law, index, is not useful for such serious purposes as investment co-investment. Just as it is not easy to accept from this legislative point of view that there is no framework in the law, within which the Minister must specify, to issue an appropriate act or regulation by which [[?]] Later, it is free will and, of course, is entirely dependent on something else. The worst part is that it does not allow this procedure, although it is well written, in four years, real and responsible planning in the congregation. It can happen that the richest congregation that really does not need any participation or very little participation will be involved in a period of time with many projects and another with nothing, because there is no marriage guarantee and that is, nicely said, a disaster. Something that the law completely ignores in some way, even though it was explained that there is no way to solve everything in this marriage. Not all of this, but the framework for all the financing of local communities needs to be put in place, whether this is the capital or what I want to point out, from 1.1.1995 until today no one has saved. It is the financing of institutions and other institutions of wider importance. No, the Minister of Culture did not save this, not for libraries, not for museums, not for health homes, there are speculations about how it will no longer be necessary, and similar solutions could be listed. I warn you, even in foreign literature and foreign legislation there are a whole bunch of cases, a very simple principle. [[?]] , the gravity area shall be determined, the criterion shall be the cost per capita in the gravity zone and the procedures, if any person of that gravity area of that institution does not respect the institution, the country shall enter. This law, the only one who could solve it, in principle, in principle, and then agree with the individual. However, how does the legislator or the proposer imagine that it will not be until 2009 that he will save the unregulated financing of some more than 30 cultural institutions that directly consume finances and prevent investments and others in municipalities where they are located, because they had to take care of them or in some other way by force, and I am not represented, even gold because he did not foresee the source of this or the resources, the source is not the best. In appropriate consumption, you have nowhere to go for what should be, how these factories will be financed, so that we can take 11.5 billion from them in prices now in three years, they are burdened by institutions that should have been burdened before I don't know how many years ago and they are actually burdened, but they have nowhere to be recognised at costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for the morning session. And a replica of your performance was signed up by the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would still try to provide some clarifications on the implementation of the Member's mandate, although these comments may also be relevant from one point of view, but I would like to clarify some things in connection with the solutions proposed in this law. I would first touch on this so-called autonomy. At this point we had the autonomy of the municipalities, all together, through how much, because we are speaking only about autonomy on the side of financial resources, and we have had through how many municipalities, under the current law of self-financing, have increased the volume of appropriate spending in the past period through the existing law and have automatically reduced autonomy, which is completely illogical. Because of the decline in the number of municipalities that were on their own funding, while at the same time increasing the volume of appropriate spending, it is said that this indicator of autonomy cannot be the one that can be the only one. And we are talking about resource autonomy, and I must say at this point that, through the proposed law, I do not see any significant deterioration in autonomy from this point of view, because we already have virtually a few municipalities in all but a few municipalities in the so-called settlement, which means that they are not autonomous in this respect, although we have, because they have already increased the level of financial resources on balance, which means that we have opened up a large part of the manoeuvre to them as regards the performance of the tasks, that is probably mainly in that development work, because the mandatory tasks are in one way or another necessary. And now with this law, when we try to systematically cover mandatory tasks, we should reduce autonomy. I find this difficult to agree with, especially since we have increased the volume of resources and we have also provided within the principal some additional resources for the so-called development opportunities. Of course, if financial resources were to be evenly distributed, then they could also increase autonomy in this sense, but it is unfortunate that the financial resources with which we finance the municipalities of those systemic tasks are very concentrated in one place, but it is possible to further examine these things, but in my view the current known facts are the situation, and therefore we have gone into solutions with which the mandatory tasks imposed by legislation are to provide systemic funding through tax revenues in some way after some permanent funding throughout the year. In the second part, however, I am sure that we have increased in this sense because we have increased the scope of the tax derogations and also some other duties such as, say, fees, concession fees, which now remain fully in the financing of the municipalities. Of course, certain issues may also arise here, and I can agree with that, but it is important to be aware that this is a broader issue because it is not defined in this law and that these things will have to be regulated through broader legislation. The next question is the question of the criteria that have been raised and this dilemma, whose thinking goes more in the direction of so-called guaranteed spending. I must say that we have been dealing with these things for quite some time, and the professional institutions have been involved in this with regard to the criteria themselves. One option is, I agree, to substantially increase the formula, the volume of the formula, all the different specificities covered in this formula, but then we go in some way precisely in the direction of the guaranteed consumption, because through the formula we will try to bring every specificity. However, I agree that there are specific areas that may need to be further explored and looked at. However, the analysis has shown that it is not possible to find any more ideal solution than these corrections that we have made. And in this case, it is not possible to compare this formula, nor can it be compared with the financing of urban municipalities with administrative units, directly with the former law. It's not possible because things have changed. And even through the scale of the increased criteria on the road, where we added public roads, we corrected a large part of this specificity; this is not the case at all. And when we talk about the criteria, quite a few of the criteria here have now been exposed through this implementation. Some have been forgotten, and they have been established in some other municipalities, I know, from the issue of civil protection to the question of, if you want, reptiles, winter services and could still be listed. Interestingly, you may have diametrically opposite problems in a comparable congregation. In one municipality there is a problem with the number of people going down, and in the other municipality there is a problem with the number of people going up. And of course all these specificities and specificities of individual municipalities should be covered in this formula. I agree with that, and in view of the comments made, we will examine further and, to the extent possible, find more meaningful corrections. We do not have any reservations in this direction to include more meaningful corrections. The issue of individual institutions, for example, in the area of culture, in the area of health insurance, which was ultimately exposed, also falls within the system itself or in the direction of consumption guaranteed. Personally, I know this problem, and at the time, we had very carefully calculated criteria for ensuring consumption, in the field of social activities, in the field of governance, and in the municipal area, these funds simply ran out. And I believe that's why this correction happened. As far as financing is concerned and which municipalities have acquired more funding in this context. I must say that an analysis was also made on the basis of the new law for 2005, and this is not the case for the congregations to lose. As many as 97.9% of municipalities receive higher total revenue under the new law for 2009, based on a done analysis. I think that this number is somewhere with an increase of around 16 billion, I am speaking of course for 2005 and of course this was done by the Institute of Local Self-Government and public procurement we did not carry out it ourselves. So these analyses are done. That's all I could say. All data is public and there is no intention that this data would not, of course, be public. Of course, I must make it very clear that the comparable criteria apply, of course, to the data of individual competent ministries or relevant services, which have been preparing for, say, roads, because there are most of these dilemmas. As far as these criteria are concerned. Of course, if you change simply the weight, then normally there is a certain degree of redeployment, but we have taken these things into account in this sense, because in some ways through road infrastructure actually reflects the whole segment of the public utility structure of municipalities and also settlements and some other elements can be covered through this element. I must admit that, of course, we have sought not to significantly increase the number of criteria, because, otherwise, I must make it very clear that in these debates, the tendency of the various interlocutors, the mayors and the institutes, of course, was to want their specificity to be brought into the formula through an additional criterion and then the matter is essentially extended, even seductive, and then, of course, we are in the situation that it is probably more meaningful to go into the system of assured consumption, which was not our intention. I repeat once again that, of course, as regards the drafting of the regulation, an assessment of the costs. This is, of course, the task now in the next two years, on which we will be very clear or significantly clearer, at least I hope, we can talk about what the actual costs are. Unfortunately, I have to admit, and I was also surprised that at this point, of course, the data on such costs is extremely weak and that is why we also decided when we analysed that we had done a statistical analysis of, of course, the data from, in fact, the municipal final accounts, because they are somehow indicators. Of course, the statistical analysis of certain anomalies, which may be present, I agree, in such a large sample of course can also be eliminated. I would, of course, repeat that this legislation is written for the entire segment of the municipalities, that we cannot directly compare, once again, the municipalities and administrative municipalities after the previous, because the system is different, you can also agree with this, and that, of course, those corrections that were previously specific to the municipalities and municipalities with administrative units are, of course, covered in a different range of these criteria. Of course, if we look at the analysis, then I have to say that the municipalities through this law are getting the bad 5 billion and the municipalities where the administrative units are based approximately 7 billion after these calculations. I agree, however, that once again it makes sense to actually look at and check and make comments, some are in place, we will be willing to take them into account, because it is our intention to bring them into legislation, within the given framework, within the given options. I would strongly deny that we are trying, in any way, to deny the capital through this law, because that comes out of nowhere, and I strongly reject it. The solutions coming from this law are coming for the entire territory of Slovenia and the capital needs to be dealt with separately and the capital has a special law in order to be dealt with in particular. And this law must be enforced. Faced with the fact that the capital has some other options, not only this capital, but also a larger city, some other options offered by other measures and other solutions from the increased scope of regional incentives as well as future landscapes. And something else about the beginning of the implementation of this law. I must say that we have had this dilemma and these discussions have been done with both associations. I am not saying that we have reached 100% consensus, through the specificities that individual municipalities have, this is impossible because everyone wants to achieve an ideal solution for his or he would like to achieve an ideal solution for his or her congregation and then there are compromises. However, if the law had not been enforced with 1.1.20008, I hope it will, with 1.1.2007. I hope so. In this case, indeed, municipalities systematically lose over 10 billion through the amendment of tax legislation. Then let's really take a step back. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you, too, Minister. I counted your performance as a debate, so you had more time available than just in case of a replica. From the same address, colleague Trophynik, replica. And you're limited to 3 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much. With a telegraph style. Mr Minister, autonomy, I apologize, I don't know the exact number, about 23 of them, was once 23, now nothing, through this law, measured through the number of municipalities that are independent of the state. More 23 than nothing. It would be nice if there were only 23 of them, and that could have been achieved if there was a will. Another time. Do not replace the volume of funds with appropriate consumption. I was talking about proper spending, you were answering me with an amount of resources. With the volume of funds due to that weird headpin or the income from the title of the principal, where 30% is recognized like that, and 70 is so. Of course, once again, you create conscious surpluses in some congregations, where 11 goes even above 15%, which is unacceptable for the purpose. About the cabs, you challenged me. I'm returning the ball in a way, although we're in such a position for the first time to polynomize, I apologize. So you've agreed with this law to definitively support environmental taxes. Debris, garbage and a large systemic error of flooding from rural areas to those cities and those points, this is the reverse path where state resources and similar facilities and landfills and similar things have been built. And this is a sin that I find difficult to forgive you. More in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Minister, of course you always have the right to debate, and before that, I ask my colleague Trofenika to turn off the microphone. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Very briefly. As far as this controversy is concerned, I think it is useful because the controversy itself, which brings additional seriousness, is certainly beneficial. As far as the system is concerned, we cannot directly compare it, because these concepts are different and really need to be looked at in full, and I believe that congregations also see the final result of one or another law. I would not agree with this if we have 210 municipalities, but if we do have 20 to finance itself, this is now the ideal solution and autonomy. But now that we've introduced a different system, it's gone. And I can't agree with that. As far as environmental taxes are concerned, this is not nearly the intention to happen through this law and these matters must be resolved through the competent minister, i.e. through the law on environmental protection, in short, from this title. We, as far as we're concerned, will also intervene.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. We continue on the basis of a list of applicants. Member Franz Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The current funding of municipalities provides for the financing of municipalities in 1998 with all the additions to this law. The financing model of municipalities provided for by law is based on the principle of financing local public affairs from own sources of finance or own revenue from taxes and taxes, which are the income of the municipality under the law and from 35% of the share of the income distributed between municipalities in the ratio of the calculated income of the debtors with permanent residence in the municipality and the measured income in the country. An analysis of the current model of funding for municipalities showed a large imbalance between the incomes per capita in municipalities. The maximum revenue of the municipality from its own financial resources in the existing part is income. In 186 municipalities, income is more than 70%. Of that, 142 municipalities have more than 80%. However, the distribution of income by municipality is uneven. The second largest share of income is compensation for the use of building land, about 11%, in some cases, in urban municipalities, even more. They follow inheritance tax and gifts, gambling tax, real estate tax and the like. The uneven distribution of own funding sources, in particular income, is a fundamental reason why 90 municipalities received financial compensation in 2005. The problem with the existing model of municipal funding, which is also closely linked to the level of the necessary financial compensation, is the cost or amount of appropriate expenditure per municipality. The analysis shows that the actual costs for the performance of municipal tasks are common and, according to each municipality, higher than the recognised appropriate consumption per capita in the country and when determining the appropriate consumption of individual municipalities. This raises the question of what costs are actually covered by the appropriate spending system, but it is also necessary to emphasise that costs vary greatly across municipalities, which is also understandable in terms of municipal specificities. One of my forerunners judged the new law in a way that the law was kind of a disaster. I myself would have estimated that the disaster was the present law, under which the congregations had been financed over the past eight years. If I only remember the case, or if I only remember that more than 100 Slovenian municipalities were financed by common law and by a criterion where the length of local and non-categorised roads was essentially the basis for financing local infrastructure and that more than 100 Slovenian municipalities had unfortunately through their municipalities also railways and railway crossings, for which, under some other legislation, Slovenian railways offered to these municipalities to sign contracts and, by chance, to the municipality I myself led for the last 12 years, a contract had come from the municipality, which, if it had signed, would have been necessary to maintain these four railway crossings. By this or so, this law, which is now in force, is also one of the co-criminals that more than 40 Slovene municipalities have an unfinished legal relationship between the state and the municipalities that run in Slovenian courts and do not see their end. Although the state or Slovenian railways have already lost quite a number of these claims, nothing has happened in this area. Therefore, I stress that the law currently in force is not an incentive for the municipalities, because those municipalities that have invested and have tried to restore a good economy in the municipalities have received significantly more money from their income, and thus have been reduced by financial compensation, that is to say, there has been no incentive for municipalities to support and work towards the development of the local economy outside their jurisdiction. A new law on the financing of municipalities must be adopted because part of the funding must be provided in accordance with the principle of adequacy, proportionality, self-financing, elasticity, alignment, cooperation, autonomy and indebtedness, which is based on the constitutional principle that the municipality is financed from its own resources and in accordance with the principle of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which says that "financial resources must be proportionate to the tasks". The aim of the proposed regulation is to ensure the proportionality of the sources of funding and the competence of the municipalities, to increase financial autonomy and to reduce the dependence on the financing of local public affairs from the additional resources of the State budget, and to establish appropriate criteria to provide additional resources from the state budget to municipalities which are unable to finance their tasks by their own resources, and to provide additional funding for the tasks performed by the municipalities and which constitute the provision of greater public interest and the development objectives of the State. The change in the funding system of municipalities will have implications for the state budget. The proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities is not linked to the legal order of the European Union, as the financing of local communities is different in the legal order of each country, depending on state regulation, the public administration system, public finances and local self-government. In short, I will support the proposed law on my own, and I think it is significantly better than the disaster we have had to fund the municipalities over the past eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you, too. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate shows that the proposed law on the financing of municipalities is a typical example of how to reverse individual concepts, such as when it is explained that the European Charter on Local Self-Government is in line with the principle of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, a financial autonomy that provides municipalities with independent financing of tasks under their jurisdiction under the budget of municipalities. I think that we can all be together - and this has also been said today - of a unified view that, already in general, local self-government is largely under-financially independent and that the share of gross social product intended to finance local-level activities is far too small compared to the vast majority of the countries to which we like to compare ourselves. This proposed law does not significantly improve this autonomy and this state of affairs, as this law distributes budgetary resources to the municipalities at almost five times the current level. And the proportion of funds that the congregations themselves can influence, in this way, is being radically reduced, whether we recognize it or not. And a whole range of important decisions are going to have a radical impact on the allocation of state budget funds, especially those devoted to investment, under the direct influence of individual ministries, ministers and their political preferences. As an MEP from Ljubljana, I would like to highlight some of the facts that are particularly important to the Ljubljanaers and the Ljubljanaians and, as a result, to the final phase of the solutions that are now proposed and envisaged in this law, I object. If the Ministry, the government and the minister really meant what they said about the city of Ljubljana, as the capital city, then they would make an exception, exclude Ljubljana from this law as the capital and supplement the Ljubljana law as the capital with the financing chapter. And then this discussion and these views would be credible, and now, of course, they're not. The municipality of Ljubljana is among those municipalities which, according to the calculation of the appropriate consumption, significantly exceeds the level of funding provided for each municipality, as is the lowest level of funding for the fulfilment of the statutory and constitutional tasks. However, it is an atypical congregation, which is also the capital of this country. Therefore, the elements of the calculation of the appropriate consumption, of which so far there have been many speeches coming from the municipality's surface, the length of local roads, the number of people under the age of 15 who are over 65, are probably not fully suited to the calculation of the appropriate consumption for the capital. In these calculations, the fact is completely ignored: daily migration, which in a specific way burdens regional centres and especially Ljubljana, in which daily, and in Ljubljana comes about 90,000 people from other municipalities, many also to school, not only to work. We can monitor this every day on all the Ljubljana bumps that are, as everyone knows, the most burdened roads in the country. And it is these elements of daily migration, which burden the city's municipal infrastructure, the work of economic public services, the work and the resources of various educational, cultural and social institutions in Ljubljana, that are nowhere to be taken into account in the legal solutions that we have before us today. Therefore, even in the case of Ljubljana, which is taking eight-and-a-half billion funds through the proposed law, it is difficult to talk about any surpluses created, as is usually said for municipalities that do not receive financial compensation. That's why I'd say it again in the end. One of his colleagues, I think, was a colleague of Pukšič, who said today that almost 10 years ago he wanted and today he has a wish to become a little big. Of course, I answer that the consequences of this law can be that the opposite, the big ones also become small, not small ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Anton Anderlich. [[He's not here.]] Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to say first that I'm disappointed in this bill. In particular, I believe that this law should address some of the obvious and existing shortcomings that some of us face. [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the government or the opposition have been warned at that time, but it does not address these shortcomings, but adds new and stronger to these shortcomings. On the other hand, it is certain that the law on the financing of municipalities means only a logical exercise, in my view, quite wrong, in certain matters of the established system of local self-government, some problem and some problem that I have been unable to deal with since 1990 in all forms. In particular, as a general assessment of the law, I would say that this law on the financing of municipalities strengthens the policy that I once adopted when we adopted the law on new municipalities or new municipalities as an anti-urban policy, which is a conscious and coordinated effort of the government to weaken the economic power and economic potential and creativity of Slovenian cities, not just Ljubljana, all medium and large cities. The most obvious example is, of course, Ljubljana, which we talked about, which will lose up to 8 billion tolars. In particular, I would like to draw attention to some of the things some colleagues have already pointed out before me. Kumer warned about the phenomenon that such cities have, not only Ljubljana, but also others, that a large number of people are coming to work in this town, but, of course, their principality and income remains where they live, which is, of course, understandable and clear, they are burdening the infrastructure, but they do not contribute to its development, because Ljubljana does not get a share of the company's income tax, which is, let's say, a strong change. At the same time, it is important to be aware of this, my colleague Krivic has already talked about a map, a review of the spatial distribution of people, the population by municipality in Slovenia from 1991 to 2002 census. What does this card show? It shows a decline in the number of inhabitants in major Slovenian cities - Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana. It shows the decline of the population in pockets outside the corridor. What does this mean for Ljubljana and for the larger cities? In particular, by gradually suburbanizing the population from the city and leaving with them taxes, taxes and all other things, and, of course, what is well-known in literature as the city crisis, because people go out, taxes go out with it, because they go out and have less money to rebuild and develop infrastructure, so people go out even more and the situation gets worse. In the central areas of Slovenian cities you have been dealing with these processes for some time now, and of course this law does not answer. I would like to stress very strongly that large cities and larger cities in Slovenia have problems of a completely different rank than those of small municipalities, that only the problem of public transport at major cities of Ljubljana, Maribor, coastline, is clearly linked to a qualitative leap to another source of transport, which means exceptional costs and is not comparable at all and of course this is not taken into account anywhere. The fact is that the Slovenian municipalities are very different and that we treat them according to a single hoof and by treating them this way, we increase the differences between them. The proposal, this law on the financing of municipalities, is flawed, in addition to the failure to take into account this competitive character between individual towns, municipalities or even regions, because it is clear that municipalities in this funding system will continue to maintain the strategy by which it is most important to achieve the eternal level of this so-called settlement, because it is the cheapest source of income for the municipality and from this we can also explain why in so many Slovenian places this nembi effect is not building in my yard, so strong, because the municipalities have nothing to do with it, because the new company, however innocent, should bring only costs, problems, transport, and therefore they prefer nothing but the principality or the flatness of it, and therefore we have this phenomenon to defend new sites, new industries and so on in Slovenia today. That's why it's so bad. Once again, I return to the catastrophic previous Law on Community Financing, which Mr Jazbec and Mr Puksic are talking about. If I looked at this spatial distribution of growth, I'd see you saying "nonsence", "untruth," and "failure." It would appear that from 1991 to 2002 the population fell in addition to three, four major cities in the pockets, the marginal areas of Bovsko, Brkina, Chicheria and so on and in Prekmurje, that all the municipalities that were in the corridor were growing, so there was no rural distribution of the city that was supposed to benefit and the countryside was losing, but it would be a partition of corridors, not corridors, with the exception of larger cities, where, as I said, the population fell. So it is not true that the previous law has produced such effects, even though I do not think it was good. And that's why you don't talk to Flossules who don't hold and show a distorted picture. What does this mean for Slovenian development in perspective? This means that cities will lose their basic function, that they are a generator of development in a wider area of influence. This means that the larger cities, because they will lose meaning, in our vicinity, when there will be no borders, Gradec, Trieste also Zagreb will take over the dominant function in the Slovenian urban system. This means that Slovenia will be urbanly focused. This means that Ljubljana will also lose its role as the centre of the Republic of Slovenia and Maribor. It must therefore be said that such a policy, as has already been said, is fatal not only for cities but also for rural areas, because it is based exclusively and at the heart of the wrong assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you, too. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you. I think I have to respond anyway. In fact, there are persistent repetitions of certain things that do not actually hold. The fact is, this law covers all the specifics of all the congregations we have. I have already said that, then, if we want to deal specifically, we should have 210 laws, because we have 210 municipalities and the specifics are very different and this is actually evident through the debate of individual debaters. As far as anti-urban policy is concerned, I cannot agree with this. If it is already said on the one hand that Ljubljana loses 8 billion through this law and we have explained why this is happening, then it must be said at the same time that Maribor, through this law, gets another billion and a half, that Celje gets a bad billion and actually gets all the city centres additional funds, which means that in this case the law helps them develop them. And once again, as far as the capital is concerned, I agree that we should have our own specifics and our own weight. He's got to have a hard time, and that's why he's got it, and that's probably why we have the capital law. But the law on the capital must also be enforced, and it must be enforced. You have to take him both ways. Now, if we are talking about this, if these are questions, then I must say that in a two-year work, no one from the Ljubljana Municipality has come to me as Minister for Local Self-Government. But it is true that I, as Minister, am not responsible for this marriage, but that I am the second minister. However, some of the issues raised will also be solved at the provincial level because they are typically provincial, such as urban or remote transport. These are typical things that probably go beyond the scope of Ljubljana itself through the specifics. The problem that you were talking about actually covers Ljubljana and the wider municipalities of this environment, and this is, say, one of the basic tasks, I agree with that which the future province will have to solve in this work for sure, and as for this, you know, that many options are opening up, a new perspective. I only hope and believe that these options will also be used in a significantly larger amount of additional financial resources, for example from the EU structural policy in the coming period, so that these resources can also be used. On the one hand, we have the needs you've pointed out, on the other hand, we have the opportunity, so we need to bring these needs to an opportunity. There is also a need to properly engage. Nothing happens on its own. And once again, I absolutely cannot agree that this is an anti-urban policy, because then the only criterion of urbanity is Ljubljana. We may not be able to agree on this and repeat once again and firmly reject, in any way from this point of view, the tendency towards Ljubljana, the city of Ljubljana, I strongly reject. It is necessary to take advantage of those options that are available, and here too, as far as our services are concerned, we will absolutely engage, but we also need appropriate interlocutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. Dr. Paula Gantar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	A short replica. I can't back down from saying it's anti-urban policy. It is simply a policy of systematically and consistently weakening larger cities. And this is seen in this law, in another law and so on, we can empirically identify and compare. This anti-urban policy, which is conducted in Slovenia, is not the only one, it is also taking place around the world. As far as Ljubljana is concerned, I have highlighted some of the problems as a Ljubljana Member, but at the same time I will say that the law on the capital is beautiful, appropriate and good, but this is not the main focus of the matter. Leave larger cities a little more freedom, leave them a little more money, don't get involved with them, and these cities will find their way, just as they are elsewhere in the world. But you don't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	The debate, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you. I have to take this one more time. Through this law, through the final effect, through the analyses that have been made, they receive more resources than actually in Ljubljana, that is a fact. Once again, however, Ljubljana has a law on the capital, which must be enforced, but also has many other development opportunities. These development opportunities, however, need to be implemented and exploited. And as far as our service is concerned, I repeat again, even from the point of view of governance - although this is not the case here - of structural funds or cohesion policy, we will absolutely approach and help. Once again, this law is not the law on the capital, this law is the law on local self-government and the purpose of this law is that, through the tasks assigned to municipalities, in short, residents and residents everywhere in Slovenia, comparable living conditions must be made possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! I thought that we were united in this Chamber today, at least in the fact that the existing funding of the municipalities was not good and that they were not satisfied with it, but after the last discussions, I do not even feel this unity anymore. To begin with, I will read some excerpts from the record of a council attended by the congregation and discussed current problems in local environments. "One of the fundamental problems of the functioning of local communities is the concept of financing municipalities, which in practice proved to be inappropriate and not developmental. It is therefore necessary to adopt a new law on the system of financing local communities." I will continue to read, as it is written, where it is also listed, which congregation some thing applies to. "It is of great importance how local communities are motivated to develop the economy. Despite the developmental orientation of the congregations, their further development will not be possible without stimulation. The investment power of municipalities is poor, so despite development projects, programmes cannot come to life [[Railways, Loška Valley, Izola, Mozire, Hrastnik, Nazarje]] . At the time of the establishment of local self-government, there were significantly more resources for the development of local communities than now. It can happen that municipalities will no longer be a driver of development, but only a distribution service, and the mayors are not required to do so. [[Upper hail]] . With budgetary resources, municipalities can barely patch up roads or build schools, so they are virtually unable to carry out major tasks [[Mozier, Semich]] There is no development money in Semich, as it amounts to an appropriate spending of around 350 million SITs, only 20% of these funds can be earmarked for investments. In Bohinj, it was pointed out that without additional financial assistance, the municipalities could not finance because they lack sufficient budgetary resources to regulate basic municipal infrastructure, water, roads and greater industrial drive. In addition, there are almost three quarters of the Bohinj municipality in the area of Triglav National Park, which is considered a national shrine, but which has not been invented by Bohinj people. We would need capital to preserve this natural good while at the same time starting money for the development of this area and so on. Perhaps this, the distribution of public funds between the country and the local level, is incompatible with Europe, as Slovenian municipalities receive significantly less funding than in other European countries. These are the representatives of Celje, Zreč declared. It was pointed out that the Council of State could draw attention to this problem and influence the transfer of funds remaining at the ministries to the local level. So let me finish this reading with my shushing. In Šostanja, MEPs expect to adopt solutions that will be acceptable to the environment and that they will be able to listen to people when considering legislation relating to local self-government and community funding. It seems to me very important that we really listen to the congregations when we adopt this new law on the financing of the congregations. The municipalities have said what problems they have, why certain matters need to be changed, and what has been happening in the last long period is that they have only received additional tasks, so that they do not receive additional funds, they are not expected to be satisfied with such a way of financing. And I must stress here once again, as has been repeatedly pointed out today, that this government has had a hearing for local communities, that we have increased funds for the functioning of the municipalities and that we are working to do so. Well, if I am speaking only for New Slovenia now, we are also in New Slovenia advocating the autonomy of municipalities, including financial autonomy, which protects local self-government from the intervention of the country. We advocate an increase in the direct income of the congregations. If the State entrusts the tasks under its jurisdiction to the municipalities, it must be provided with the necessary financial resources. Minor demographically threatened areas shall be provided for financial compensation. However, objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of funds need to be developed. This is what we have written down in our programme on local self-government and community funding. I am convinced that this very law brings these new criteria, the new funding framework for municipalities. It is true that by the adoption of this law we will not get very wealthy municipalities all over Slovenia. Not to expect that after the adoption of this law all congregations will be satisfied and that development will go to heaven, if I say so at home, but the trend will certainly result in this law. And another replica of what was already said in this hall today, I say. One of the discussers spoke of the fact that there was nothing in the law about the provinces. We don't have the provinces yet. And it'll probably take us a while to get the landscapes. However, I am also personally confident when we come to the provinces, that this will entail amending this law on the financing of municipalities, because it will certainly change the tasks as well as the countries, and I think that local communities will also need to change funding. I am sure that this law, which we are considering today, will result in a slightly more coherent development of the congregations so that there will be no greater differences than we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am enacting a law on the financing of municipalities as an important change to the regulation so far. Of course, I think that fundamental regulation is still waiting for us. Also with regard to this change in the intermediate level or the introduction of an intermediate level of landscapes, as my colleague Koren has already said. This law is essentially a good addition to the previous regulation, the previous law, of course, and just as the state of Slovenia sees these 210 municipalities or government, the ministry, the EU also looks at those 300 regions in Europe and tries to harmonise, somehow harmonise the development backlog or capture the differences in structural inefficiencies. It would be much easier to do so through the mechanism of regulating matters through, in my opinion, tax legislation, so that all the important obligations of the municipalities that today bear the most burden of municipal budgets, and that the people and voters do not realize when they expect significantly more to be transferred to the country, and of course also parts of tax resources. Then we would have no problem taking, giving to others, or not giving enough to someone according to their developing state. I don't think that's true either, and it's a very narrow and unilateral view of some when it comes to just one aspect. But if we look at the situation that is currently in Slovenian settlements, cities, we need to take into account the educational level of employees, economic dynamics, economic development, the state of infrastructure and everything that brings elements of the field and elements of demography. In general, this law improves and adds to these two elements, which I think are very criminal through the formula and can never capture the true solidarity that is actually needed by individual regions. And it is this diversity of municipalities in Slovenia, which is only positive, because even smaller municipalities as major municipalities or municipalities or capitals, each is its own autonomous entity and should be as successful as possible at its local level in the situations in which it must operate. Unfortunately, these backlogs are such that in some ways the state is trying to correct them and help them in solidarity. Of course, it is the least pleasant to take from someone, to give to others, and no one looks at the fact that those who are now said to have something because of the change are, as it were, taken, in fact, were getting, essentially getting, in my opinion, exactly on this economic dynamic and on the educational structure of their population, not to say by the level of wages. At the same time, they are lowering some costs due to demographic movements, rural migration. That is why I advocate that we should take on some kind of European model and, in fact, on the basis of the structural backlogs and development needs of catching some developmental medium-sized or needed development, give these environments what they need to make up for the differences. But now, despite the fact that this law is an important change and is trying in some way to increase solidarity or what someone acquires on the basis of the advantages that, say, the capital, this [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in terms of solidarity, which is positive. [[..]] Not only did someone lose something now, but I think someone has been getting it for years and years, because from a rural environment people, depending on where the services are for their level of education, these people are going to the cities, these people are the most creative and suggestive. Unfortunately, it is still the most important element in the financing of municipalities of income, which completely misdirects in some municipalities, which look at a narrower and only this tax source, in the wrong direction, which increases some differences or creates a wrong development strategy within these municipalities. I expect that the government will sooner or later approach an integrated approach where the educational and social elements will somehow integrate themselves into a comprehensive picture and will not only be resolved in a partial way, as now, with individual laws where there are improvements, but this comprehensive conglomerate, if properly addressed, might lead to less problematic or less controversial solutions. In addition, the local environment could have as an important source an environmental and transport source, for example, which is not covered in this structure, or sources of public-private partnerships, which are not yet to be taken into account because of regulations. Some market-oriented public-private partnerships today cannot be subsidised or taxed, in some way drawing on these sources also some development revenue for these environments, as economic dynamics should also be motivated to draw some resources from this, not in terms of taxation, but in terms of obtaining resources for additional start-up and development. By adopting this law as such as an intermediate important phase in this coordination, I think that there will be a need to make substantial consideration and in some way integrate these circumstances into an appropriate, better and comprehensive solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Slavko Gabra. [[He's not here.]] Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The debate we are witnessing today took place, if I recall correctly, about nine years ago, when the Law on Community Financing changed substantially. And I think that this debate is actually late for about nine years. And if things were to begin at that time in the direction they are going today, they would probably be at a significantly higher level of financial autonomy of the municipalities and even the equalization of basic standards in the congregations, which are not actually agreed on today, and obviously will not be for a while. In view of the fact that the general debate may at first only be said that I am aware that the funding of municipalities is a highly interdisciplinary project, which must be a government project, a single ministry such a project is very difficult to reconcile in a quality manner, because municipalities are some kind of lactose paper of all the policies that the authorities have been carrying out in the past, and are being carried out now, namely, the municipalities are practically touching everything that is officially or indirectly touched and for which it is competent and also for which it is not competent, the economy was mentioned earlier. I believe that the proposal for a bill is a correction towards a somewhat more just and solidarity within the framework of approximately this fund, I am speaking roughly, although it is true that, in this mandate, this government has shown a substantial increase in will, that this area also begins to be systematically resolved from the financial area by increasing the appropriate consumption and also by trying to make the case in some way in the short term. However, I believe that it would be possible to coordinate the content of the legislation that is also in preparation by now, either in further preparation or in the processing of this proposal, here I will give an example of the law on public finances, then in a way more stablely regulate the financing of municipalities and coordinate the law on the implementation of the budget. It has also been mentioned that the adoption of legislation on landscapes, where the law on the financing of the provinces will certainly be one of the very key laws and if this legislation is not basically harmonised with each other at the beginning, then there is still much work to be done and reforming one, the other, the third legislation. I have to say about the law itself that I still miss the corrections, some of the corrections that have proved to be a weak point in the existing law in these nine years. Surely one of these is the criteria for the development of municipalities, which is also a criterion, or indicators of the development of municipalities, which are, after all, criteria for co-financing investments by the State. Here, of course, there is still a value added tax, which we see on the one hand as an obligation on the other, and if the municipality is essentially entitled to co-financing, let's say 20%, virtually all these funds are returned to the state budget through value added tax, which is through some kind of ridiculous game that the municipalities have become accustomed to and have accepted. However, I miss in the law itself the integrated policy of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Let me just give you an example of what we will now support more through appropriate spending indicators or what we will give priority to, what is strategic direction, Slovenia at the full level or demographically threatened areas or demographic areas that are prosperous, but we know that this is the largest public-financial problem in the long term. Here I think that it is necessary to make a decision at the political level and, through such a law, also to stimulate and encourage the strategic development orientations of the whole country. I am sure that the municipalities are still the basis for a coherent and sustainable development of the country, whether the provinces are established or not, the municipalities will remain as they are all over the world, throughout Europe and even in Slovenia, the basic institutions and development, or the lack of development, coherence or non-conformity, and also this law is probably not in itself able to replace what I have estimated to have been missing for almost 10 years, is the equivalent of the basic standard in the municipalities. The municipalities need to ensure a basic standard, especially in the area of infrastructure. This has not been systematically ensured in recent years, but I do believe that this is not directly possible through the Community Financing Act and must be done through other legislation. It is necessary to help municipalities build basic infrastructure, because also because we have entered the European Union and I am assessing that only waiting for European funds from cohesion and structural funds will probably be insufficient, that issue will have to be synchronized, this law and other legislation, especially as I said before on public finances, the law on the implementation of the budget and legislation at individual ministries, particularly in the field of environment and space. One more question for the government, regarding the indebtedness of the congregations. My question is why, what is the explanation that the original text of Article 9 of the proposed Law on the Financing of the Communities on 28 July was not retained in the law itself, since, according to my personal assessment, this text would be better, more transparent and would thus set a quota of total indebtedness, not only for the municipalities but also for other budgetary users associated with the municipality. First of all, I want to know where the reason is that such a text is not left in the law itself. On the other hand, I wonder whether it is possible or possible to expect that the debt of municipalities as a common, I don't know, public debt or, of course, a general budget deficit would also contribute to some negotiating mechanism with the state level? This mechanism, as far as I know, is known by Austria, we know that every year we have to meet certain criteria of the Stability Pact and, given the development priorities, the representatives of the municipalities, at least for Austria, are in line with the country in which the investment responsibility will take place, in particular in the light of the country's development strategy. I think this mechanism would be good to put into this system. At this point we know that control of the financial situation of municipalities, in fact, is not serious in Slovenia, at least I think so; if this is not the case, please deny it. And in the long term, given the current text of the Law on Community Financing, given the debt, I do not think that the matter is as predictable as it looks. I'd like to ask you an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. I think you'll get the answer right away. A representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would answer this question to the Member of Parliament; that we, as the service itself, will propose in the next procedure of law in the National Assembly a correction of this Article, to which also the debt of public institutions and public enterprises owned by local communities is added. There was only one mistake where we first sought another solution, but of course the whole concept of borrowing will be regulated by the Public Finance Act. With regard to this initiative to entrust municipalities with coordination with other obligations under the Stability Pact, I think we will also examine it accordingly. We do know, however, that at this point the task of the congregations in the global community is very low, there about. 1% gross social product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you, too. To the words of the Mag. Boruta Saivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! As far as I am concerned, I am advocating the following principle in the financing of municipalities: to introduce a system of municipalities, a system of funding for municipalities, because differences between municipalities in Slovenia will be reduced, that is to say that municipalities will be able to finance their own funds and that these funds will be distributed more fairly. For example, if I say an example, among the congregations that I come from and some of the neighbors in our congregation, there are almost one fifth of the settlements and villages that are accessible or people are still driving through macadamia, while in a neighboring congregation where funding is different, even with the country's thanks, they are better managed and, of course, asphalting Polish and forest routes. I think it's one of those more important things that isn't about what the congregation gave priority to. There is simply not enough resources in the congregations for everyone. Last but not least, such a policy that distinguishes between congregations also leads to this tendency to crush congregations. I oppose further fragmentation and division of municipalities, but as long as the two new municipalities from one always receive more than one old municipality, in some environments in Slovenia such a trend will also be present before the next local elections. And what matters to me is that I am not at all opposed to an increase in the state's additional resources and to the Ministry of Co-financing of Investments. The proposed regime also allows up to 100% co-financing of investments by the State, but I believe that these funds must be allocated to municipalities in particular in a transparent manner and that these criteria and the criteria for distribution must be known, of course, and accessible to all under the same conditions. Therefore, in this story, it bothers me that the executive power here is taking on too much responsibility, because every minister will decide on co-financing of an individual investment for his own department, for example if I also connect to the middle from which I come, the largest settlement has a desire for one of the bypasses. A bond is urgently needed. If it had been built a decade ago, it would have been too late, but even now, in the light of this new legislation, I do not see an essential possibility for the finance and transport ministry to quickly harmonise itself and agree to build this emergency vehicle on a state road as soon as possible or almost immediately. Such an arrangement, as now provided for in the legislation, also implies the incorporation of the potential of political clientism and the preference of something on the basis of the Mayor's membership, but these are matters relating to both the left and the right. I therefore reiterate that these criteria for the co-financing of the congregations should be known earlier and all under the same and clear conditions. At the end of my debate, I would like to refer to my predecessor. These value added tax games, when municipalities on the one hand receive paper large money, are important assets, and then 20% of these VAT investments return, simply that this process is not necessary and meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Ambassador Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President. Hello, Minister and his associates! I join myself to all those who say or say that something had to be done with the applicable law, such as it is, no one was satisfied. It also appears that some in this law have seen the possibility of establishing new small municipalities actually find opportunities to develop infrastructure, especially infrastructure, and less on some other strategic issues. It is true that the Ministry has assured or that Minister Žagar has probably had a significant impact in increasing the appropriate consumption, but I think four and a half percent talk about understanding the needs of local communities. However, it is also true that on the other hand, some tasks have been delegated, but of course these numbers have somehow revitalised. So, the basis and the reasons for changing the law is a lot, and here there is no doubt about it. However, the fact is that such a law, at least in my opinion, would require a number of systemic changes. I think that, I would say, more adaptation to the current state, to the current number of municipalities, a few corrections to some of the injustices and some of the anomalies that are taking place, and less to the system law that would give some certainty and promise that the municipalities would actually be able to operate in a stable manner. So it should be more systematic to be more systematic to think that it would take a little longer than has been invested so far. I think that I would need a little more interdisciplinary, that is, cooperation among those who, with different calculations, studies and so on, would find that in these criteria, which are in fact almost the only criteria that are known today, these are the criteria for calculating the appropriate use of more options that affect the funding of municipalities than only what is somehow taken over, by simply correcting it. In my opinion, the drafter again fell into a trap when the law was more adapted to the current state, including the number of congregations he had to satisfy, rather than setting up a mirror in which some would probably find that they had nothing to do as independent congregations, or that they needed to change their municipal policy, but not just wait for the public mangers to suck what the state had provided them. And that's the next reason that this law is inappropriate in my opinion. The autonomy of the congregations is, in fact, distorted, or at least not improved; if someone says that, I think that this is the wrong claim and in the long run it will prove that those who have criticized it were right. So, I think that the debate in the National Assembly is appropriate, correct, that it is good and gives probably also the Ministry or its co-workers a basis for trying to find any improvements, as far as the law itself is concerned. I think a more appropriate approach would be a system law, but a different system law. Such a possibility is not currently available, I hope that at least some calculations or some reflections will be taken into account. There was a talk earlier about how the income was criminal. Of course she was guilty. It was also guilty of urban settlements or urban areas, not only for those areas on the edge of some part of Slovenia. That's what these tests show. So if I compare only with Maribor, Maribor has reduced the number of inhabitants, I think by 2%, which means that there is some reason for this. The reason was in the quality of life that was always worse, people moving out and coming to work in Maribor, creating income in their environment. The revenue, which was the source of funding for the budget, made it impossible for Maribor to improve this quality of life. And that's the consequence that some urban environments have felt, and it's only right that this has changed. However, it seems to me that in this way, as those criteria in Article 13 are calculated for appropriate consumption, they also do not give these urban settlements the right opportunity to see a certain perspective in development, if that is the case, of course. These urban settlements simply need some correction factor that would allow, in view of their development and objectiveness, that the centre of some event, that things happen in these cities that do not happen in the suburban environments, should be given some factor to calculate this income or the appropriate spending that would actually enable them to make up for what this environment is causing indisputably in these cities - creating greater need for the restoration and maintenance of infrastructure facilities of all kinds, from communal to those belonging to social activities. I'm going to illustrate, say, with some pools, sports areas that don't do any good, and all these environments don't actually do any good. Or this bus traffic, which is used literally by everyone, has to be subsidised by the municipality because it usually does not result in an economic calculation only at an economic price or a social impact is too high and must therefore be subsidised. And this is not actually taken into account anywhere in the law. And these city halls, especially the larger city halls, are, I think, entitled to some correction of this calculation, such as it is. I personally believe that this intervention should be much greater. As far as investment is concerned, I am also joining those who believe that investment should be more transparent, i.e. the allocation of these funds. We believe that in these three articles of the investment law, there is still little chance of impact on policy options. So the current current policies. The matter can turn around when you, who are now in the ruling coalition, once in the opposition, say the same thing, which is why this matter needs to be changed. And if at the end of the day, because I must leave the word to my fellow Slavinac, I will add this final thought. Culture. Culture seems to be at risk in this transitional article. So I'm afraid people in culture don't know what's ahead in institutions. Nowhere is it clear what this means, what these municipal public institutions are like in culture, what they are waiting for, how they will actually go into the funding period, who will provide them with these resources, and I think that the relic of this law, which you inadvertently created, is to think about how these creators can actually provide stable conditions for them to move into funding under some other conditions. I could have listed a lot of these cases, but I won't have them for lack of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Member Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this four-hour debate shows that we are dealing with very important matter and indeed, the proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities is, we can say, one of the most important laws that we are considering in this House. I do not agree with some before me when they say that there are only some partial changes, partial corrections to the previous law. It's a system solution, it's a system solution that, in fact, we've been alerting all those who are somehow like mayors or otherwise facing local self-government for a very long time. As I said earlier in the introduction, in my presentation on the position of the Group of Members, the law certainly provides the basis for achieving those essential objectives of local self-government. This is primarily to achieve greater autonomy of the congregations. This is actually what we have missed the most in the existing law so far. But perhaps even more important is that the existing law, instead of reducing regional development differences, has further deepened them. And in this bill, we see the essence of everything in that these regional developmental differences between the municipalities are shrinking. Finally, we are also talking a lot about decentralisation of our country and the proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities is also going this way. Most of the mayors with whom we have been in contact in the past days to discuss this law and, last but not least, to the two associations, this is the community of Slovenia and the association of the municipalities of Slovenia, everywhere in both of these associations, find that in fact the law is on the right track, that the bill is on the right track, but of course there will be a lot more to be done, and I think they are, of course, considering that the law will go into further procedure by normal procedure, that of course we have every possibility that with the amendments and with those proposals that are today, I will say that some very much to the point that the proposaler will not last take them into account in this further procedure. Look, no marriage is optimal, and this isn't right now. However, I am convinced that this bill is on the right track and that we will continue to make these differences, which are, of course, obvious between the municipalities at the moment, these developmental differences, of course, to reduce these differences, which is in fact the essential objective of this law, and I am sure that this law will ensure this. I am confident that today's majority opinion in Parliament will be such and also the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration, as I have also heard from those who have very many comments on this bill, but nevertheless find that some changes in this area are necessary. The changes are here and, of course, let us exert ourselves, step together, and with comments and proposals, try to ensure that this proposal is as optimal as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to take the time that I have to take on at least one particular fact, here in the explanation of Article 13, we see that the data on the area, the length of the municipal roads and the number of people under the age of 15 or over 65 are taken into account, which should fully reflect the specificities of the municipality. Of course I'm inclined to models that with little parameters describe a certain state as well, but in this case these four parameters on one side suffice to even [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] On the other hand, it is certainly difficult to ensure that they fully express the specificities of individual congregations, the size of the road, and the number of young and old certainly not. [[..]] On the other hand, if we now look at what the funding structure or so-called principal income is, we can see that the principal is 30%, and that the appropriate consumption is 70% of what the municipality gets, if we develop this equation, it comes here on page 25 and in Article 14, it would also make sense to correct the index with the ratio, because the index is usually 100 times the total, purely editorial. Why am I saying this isn't the right information? We have already heard the importance of regional centres, which are not getting enough to maintain the infrastructure that everyone is using, but I will give a concrete example of co-financing of pre-school education. The municipalities, where the social status is lower, of course, also receive less income and consequently have to co-finance and invest substantially in pre-school education alone. Twice these congregations are on the downside, on the one hand they get less, and on the other hand they need to invest more, as they need more co-financing for preschool education. What are they doing? The developmental mass of the development capital of the municipality, which should be invested in anything else, is then provided for these purposes. Sorry, time's up. Hopefully I'll have a chance later for the rest of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. Comrade Slavinac, you will have time, we will open the possibility of further reporting to time. The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to the representatives of the government service and also to fellow Members, perhaps the large crowds of others who accompany this meeting today. As part of their presentations, my fellow Members have already stressed the efforts of New Slovenia, as well as the results that we are directing towards the goal of autonomy or the Slovenian autonomy of the municipalities, not only the autonomy of the tasks related to the transfer of individual tasks to the municipalities, but also to the financing. I can assess that there have been some important steps already taken in this direction since 2004. Let me recall, in 2005 the amount for the calculation of the appropriate consumption was 10%, then this year it was 4.5%, and also for the following year it was 4.5%. We have also amended the provisions of the Community Financing Act last year, in terms of the possibility of additional funding of up to 3% in terms of drawing on European funds. In last year, however, individual local communities were also able to apply and additional funds were received on the basis of projects for local infrastructure. Well, that's a pretty good trip to the new local authorities, the newly elected mayors, a traveler who's been better than the last few years. It is therefore certainly appropriate to undertake a comprehensive renovation of the funding of municipalities, including this proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, which we are discussing today. In particular, because the existing law now contained mechanisms that did not allow for a fair distribution of funds. This is particularly evident in the backlog of some of the congregations now in existence. And if we exclude the skills of individual local authorities with regard to the acquisition of additional funds and even sometimes deliberately abandoning one of the municipalities, it must have been one of the real reasons that they were in the worst position under the existing law of a large, sparsely populated municipality. Although I am still my own point of view, it seems to me not only me, but also some of the initiators for the creation of new municipalities, that the lower limit of 2,000 people as a restriction is unacceptable, especially due to the diversity we have in Slovenia. And that is probably why we will never fully understand and agree on those from Eastern Slovenia, and perhaps this part of the more central and western Slovenia. However, today the topic is not the law on local self-government, so I would like to continue with this proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities. As I have already mentioned, it is certainly one of the reasons why larger, sparsely populated municipalities could not make progress, given the mechanisms that this law included, in particular with regard to individual km of roads, as well as the provision of municipal infrastructure, which are in such large, sparsely populated municipalities in the budget or in the proportion of the budget, have achieved a large percentage of the money. So a large portion of the funding had to be cut off for that. As I have already said, it is likely that we will never fully understand or have the same views here with Comrade Trofenic, depending on where we come from. If we look closely, we can see from a simple picture of Slovenia and the distribution of congregations that the size of the congregations is increasing if we look from the east to the west. We can simply look at this to refresh the memory on the local election web portal or in connection with local elections, gov.si, and we will see there that this relationship, as far as size is concerned, is very much in favour of Western work or this part of Central Slovenia towards the West. The existing law on the financing of local communities has put too little emphasis on this in the calculation of appropriate spending, but in particular it has not been able to close these differences with other additional mechanisms and has also failed to achieve some equality between individual municipalities. Above all, there is a problem where there are mostly hilly areas. A colleague from LDS talked about the problem of moving to cities. Clearly, if a person does not have basic infrastructure, this is that it can normally be brought to a centre, that he is also forced to change his residence. I also assess that the bill itself will help to maintain the sparsely populated areas in particular there. Above all, we must seek to ensure equal conditions as regards quality of life. It is certain that the inhabitants, the citizens of these municipalities, where they were able to maintain the local infrastructure themselves, or also cultural monuments, were forced to give most of them from their own incomes, but not from their own revenue of the municipality, but from their own income. And this is what I see as positive progress also in this bill that the quality of life of some citizens and others will be more equal. There was also a speech concerning changes in the capital regarding Ljubljana. Here I am surprised by this fear of colleagues from the House of Liberal Democracy Club and the SD, because their silent candidate has declared himself the most capable man and I wonder at their doubts about the provision of funds. But now, as far as the law is concerned. The law also contains these instruments, the law does not have only one article. The law also has Article 23 and Article 24. Article 23 of the Act states that it is possible to provide and co-finance individual tasks in order to ensure greater public interest, i.e. to provide additional resources from the State budget for this purpose. Article 24 on co-financing of investments is also mentioned. Last but not least, as has been pointed out several times already today, we also have a law on the capital, which I will also try to keep not only a dead letter on paper, but also the city of Ljubljana will have its share, a part that the law also allows it to do. I appreciate that the law brings positive steps, but of course we will continue to actively cooperate in improving individual solutions and support the continued adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. The law now in force was passed in 1998. We know what two political options were the authors of this law back then. One of them is still in the government today. I must point out that I have been very unhappy with the law, which I have pointed out many times in the last eight years. Especially during the past two years, the congregation of Idrija has pointed out these weaknesses. From this point of view, I support the new law, but there are still many shortcomings. At the same time, I am aware that there is no formula in Slovenia to satisfy all 210 Slovene municipalities. The bill is without adequate calculations, which, of course, significantly makes it difficult to assess the intended effects, and the consideration of that law at the time of the local elections is unfair to the municipalities, to those municipal councils that have left and those that have not yet been formed, to those mayors who have gone and new ones who have not yet had a say in this law, so that it would be better to have this treatment in a more relaxed time rather than in the midst of local elections. I also assess that only the starting point for the drafting of the law is not appropriate, since it is much more about redistribution of funds between municipalities than to increase the share of gross social product intended for the functioning of local communities, which is among the lowest in the European Community. With regard to appropriate consumption, I can say that despite the changed weightings in the formula, there is still an indisputable conclusion that this formula continues to maintain or even increases the balance sheet, as the coefficients for municipalities based in places where the former municipalities or municipalities were established. In addition, I propose to add a coefficient for an area with more difficult geographical and climate conditions or for mountain or hill municipalities. However, with regard to co-financing of investments, I would like to say that the law is prepared with the assumption that funds of appropriate use will provide all municipalities with financial capacity to carry out their tasks and, if so, there is no longer a reason for differentiated co-financing of investments at local level, then the best solution for 50 % of the participation of all municipalities, as was the case until 1999, would be to ensure respect for the principle of equality of all municipalities. Finally, I would like to point out that the time is running out, even Article 43 of the Law, which speaks of the cessation of public service funding for municipal institutions in culture. I think that this provision of the law is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which explicitly refers to the fact that in these cases it is a delegated task where, in accordance with the principle of this law, provisions should be adopted in the home law, which would provide municipalities with additional means to carry out these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Hello again. It is probably true that Members will be able to say that we have adopted a good law if local communities are satisfied with this law. This means that if local communities have greater financial power and, given the legislation and analysis they have prepared, what this means for the future local communities, this should also be done. From this point of view, I once again welcome this proposal, a proposal that means, on the one hand, as has been said many times, a transfer of funds has been made, and on the other hand more resources from the State budget for local communities. I am also of the opinion that it might be possible to take any factor into account in the calculation of the appropriate consumption, but it is also true that there are so many different municipalities in Slovenia and it is difficult to adapt to the 210s. However, I am very pleased that the legislator has actually listened to the problem with which the municipalities appeared, at least in the past, to indicate, to the most concerned or to have the most problems, that is, in the field of road infrastructure, so in these areas the municipalities had to allocate the most resources and that in the formula where local roads were taken into account, public roads were still additionally involved, and the weighting before this parameter rose considerably. This means that congregations in which there are many roads to maintain will acquire more funds. However, I have one thought about public roads or real values, in view of this, I would like to point out that in the past we had to go to the municipalities of the road categorization law, where we took local roads or local roads quite seriously and also obtained at the Ministry of Transport, I would say, agreement on the length of these roads. However, we all know together that public roads or these lengths were more domestically made or that the ministry was not so restrictively involved in lengths, so that it would also be convenient for this matter to be related to another ministry, to verify that there are objective parameters here and that the congregations are of equal value to each other. As far as financial independence is concerned, or on the one hand, of its own resources and on the other, financial compensation would only be added, given that there was so much controversy that we were still financially dependent in spite of this or a much larger part of the country. I have to say that in this part, I would not be too downhill, because we can debate a lot about how many municipalities there are in Slovenia, which will have so much of its own resources, that we will say that it will not be on a financial level. Well, now there is a new system of how to design these resources, certain taxes that are supposed to be state taxes will be passed on to municipalities, and actually enough is enough to say that there are so many and so many municipalities now or that so many and so many municipalities in Slovenia are no longer on the financial balance. Because we know that 35% of the income is really the only source or source of the congregation, and we cannot raise that percentage, given that some other congregations would then "screw" out. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you. And I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for saying that again. I might first perhaps even warn, explain solutions with some warnings that have been given. Above all, as regards first of all co-financing of investments. The decision proposed in the law goes in this direction that, of course, individual ministries take into account the specifics in the planning of investments from their area, which are not necessarily uniform and are identical across all ministries, matters are probably very different from one ministry to another. Of course, I expect that these investments will then be co-financed through clear criteria, I don't think we can talk about any customerism, not least the individual ministers or the Ministry will take responsibility for the criteria adopted, which will then co-finance their investments themselves. And also co-financing rates can be very different, depending on the specificity and nature of the investment. As far as these laws are concerned, I do not think it is possible to say here that legislation itself brings new smaller congregations, because the criteria do not speak of smaller, larger, or medium-sized municipalities. And the effects are different. The purpose of this law is, once again, to provide the municipalities with as much funding as possible in the part where the tasks are assigned. As for these issues, which are related to the timing of the adoption of legislation, I must say again that the law has been in the debate for quite some time now, that the municipalities are practically familiar with this law, that we have already taken some of the solutions into account in the final version of the bill that is now before you. It is impossible to talk about this, since such a discussion takes quite some time and is virtually impossible to go through the time of any election. On the other hand, the very dynamics of the drafting of the law were also linked to the preparation or amendments in the field of tax legislation. Once again, if it were to happen that the law would not have been adopted or entered into force as of 1.1.2007, in conjunction with the tax legislation adopted, then the municipalities are actually at a loss, which we do not want to achieve. This is mainly about those congregations that are currently in self-financing. Nor could I agree with the formula and, of course, with the view that it is a reallocation. We have made a deliberate decision at this point in time for as few criteria as possible, because things are as transparent as possible. In order to take into account more criteria and it is also necessary to say that even from your debate here in the National Assembly it depends on what environment you come from, because then you bring or propose your specifications into the criteria themselves and, of course, then this selection is substantially expanded and we are in the system of so-called guaranteed spending in which we have been a while ago, and this is not the purpose of this law. The purpose of the law in this part is to determine the costs incurred by the municipalities. This will also need to be done during the transitional period. With regard to the provision of additional resources, however, it must be made very clear that some additional resources have already been provided through an increased volume of appropriate spending in 2005 and 2006, which is additional resources in the budget and also for the closure of the law. In this context, additional resources are planned in the 2007 and 2008 budget rebalancing. However, as regards, of course, in the essence of receiving all funding over the periods ahead, it is necessary to say that municipalities through both associations will be actively involved in the preparation of budgets only in the next period. At that time, they will be able to justify the need for these funds, and I see here one of the greatest contributions or one of the greatest added values, as far as this law is concerned, of course, in compliance with these provisions. And it is extremely important to mention this because it is not discussed enough and is under-emphasized. In short, the municipalities will in fact be active partners in the planning of these budgets in the next period, i.e. after 2008, and then this discussion, including the share of gross product, will be even more topical. Now, in the context of the public funding options and the tasks to be covered by the municipalities, the average recorded in the transitional provisions for 2007 and 2008 was also essentially based on a statistical analysis of the costs of municipalities in the past period. Of course, we are aware that, as far as the autonomy of local self-government is concerned also in this financial sense, through an increased volume of resources, it is necessary to carry on and carry things in this positive direction. As far as these criteria are concerned, I must also say that there is also a need to be careful with regard to individual municipalities. We have also deliberately increased the weight of the road infrastructure of all municipalities. These include public roads, including city streets, and I stress that they make a significant contribution through the system of criteria for individual cities. And the municipalities must monitor these things and also update them accordingly. Of course, this criterion is not only relevant from the point of view of this area, it is said, to regulate road infrastructure, but is, in some ways, a criterion of the entire municipal infrastructure and some other factors that can be addressed through this criterion. If we were to extend the criteria to individual areas, then we would significantly extend the whole set and the basic concept would also be practically compromised from the point of view of autonomy of decision-making, because then we would have gone too radically into determining the individual work, such as, if you wanted, the budget, precisely intended for a particular area. And this thing is actually left to the congregations. And perhaps as far as transitional provisions are concerned. As far as the issue of financing culture is concerned, the recovery of a certain state of affairs. In fact, the idea is to then move this funding to the future regions, but this part also needs to be taken into consideration once again thoroughly, that this part will really be arranged so that things will be virtually independent, even as regards, say, co-financing assistance at home. In this final work, however, I might point out once again that the basic purpose or the basic idea of marriage was twofold. On the one hand, to ensure that, through the tasks entrusted to the municipalities, the financing of these tasks is as even as possible, meaning that, through these tasks, citizens and citizens, in short, residents and residents of Slovenia, will have comparable opportunities to carry out these tasks, regardless of the environment in which they live. Of course, I'm talking about comparables, ideally it will never be possible, because then we should probably write 210 specific laws for each congregation individually, because indeed the specifications are extremely different. We believe that it is therefore necessary to take care of it through this country and in this part we cannot talk about some reduced autonomy, although at first glance it is possible to do so, because the financial resources for the provision of these tasks are in the past period, or if individuals want to devote themselves to this extremely different distribution across Slovenia and it would not be possible to finance it through this part in this way. That is why we have decided on this funding system. Once again, however, autonomy in this part is linked to the active participation of future municipalities in the preparation of budgets for the following years and at that time in active discussions with the country itself. In the second part, we went in the direction because we actually leave some of the taxes and other sources of revenue to the municipalities for their own development tasks. It is not the purpose of this source to finance the tasks entrusted to the municipalities, but in fact to finance those own developmental aspirations and their own development ideas of individual municipalities. Of course, in this case, the more developed environment has a much larger room of manoeuvre, especially when, after this five-year transition period, it practically replaces the rest of the municipalities or the future real estate tax in these solutions. In short, this part will also allow for the management of one's own development policy in a substantially larger way, together with other tax derogations and concession taxes as well as fees. And I also have to say that at this point I do not know the cases that have been exposed to some extent to the opposition of individual municipalities to the fact that some production would like to be placed in individual municipalities. At this point, I still don't know personally in Slovenia. In this part, I am convinced that this law is fully in the direction of increased autonomy, or self - determination, of the congregations and planning of the congregations. In doing so, we must take into account some of the other developments that are currently in place, not least the increased volume of regional development incentives and, finally, the coming provinces, because some of the tasks and some of the problems that have been faced today in this national council, such as transport, are typical examples in the essence of the province's tasks or probably will not be solved without the establishment of the landscapes, if we are talking about the cases of valley transport and some others. However, I am sure and also thank you for all this debate that has now been held here in this national assembly. I think she was extremely useful. We will also try to take the comments within the given framework, as far as possible, when further drafting the bill. We must also be aware of the public-financial capabilities. Finally, it must be borne in mind that the whole issue of regulating local self-government in general, as a result of which funding is not exclusively regulated through this law alone, but also by a number of laws or by-laws in other areas. Some may also need to be adequately adapted and adapted. But as I have already mentioned, we will certainly try to take into account those positive solutions, suggestions in the sense that this law will also improve in the interests of all our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. With the Minister's performance, we have exhausted the list of pre-declared debaters. Given that we have 43 minutes to go, I am asking present Members and Members and representatives of the government to apply for an additional debate. Those of you who want to do this, please sign up. The possibility given to us by Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure has been seized by three Members and the Minister. The first one has the word only Member Bevk. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Eight years ago, you had a scissors and a canvas in your hands, and you could have solved some things, not just today. Of course, by increasing the share of gross social product that would go to the field of local self-government in our country, we would also have saved those four municipalities that are now dissatisfied with this law and, above all, the municipality of Ljubljana. I think it would be right for us to adopt a special law for her that would regulate it in a different way. For, as I said before, there is no formula in this country that pleases all 210 congregations. But I'd like to say a few more things about this law. Principles of Community funding. The principle of proportionality of funding sources with the tasks of municipalities is highlighted. We note that the found costs of municipalities to carry out tasks in 2005 amounted to around 110 000 tolars. Now that this is converted into euro for 2007, this amount should be around €470, which is roughly the same. So it's not some kind of special progress compared to two years ago. In particular, it is a violation of the principle of the autonomy of municipalities in the financing of municipal tasks, since the drafter of the law foresees that the financial compensation will receive as many as 107 Slovene municipalities. This is more than half of all congregations in the country. I've already pointed out the formula for calculating the appropriate consumption. This formula continues to retain the balance sheet. All Slovene municipalities get exactly the same amount for a kilometer of their area, for a kilometer of road and public roads for people under 15 years of age or older. Thus, the formula does not continue to take into account the greatest differences and specificities of municipalities such as population density, its dispersion, the dispersion of relief, the climate situation. Look, a case in the village of the Army in Idrian. It falls in one winter, on average, from 7 to 8 metres of snow. Probably much less in Cyprus. However, for roads, both congregations receive the same amount of money. Thus, 100 million roads can be invested in repairing roads, asphalting, and 100 million snow - climbing roads in our congregation from year to year. During the 10 years, one billion tolars for the modernisation of municipal and local roads are thus unearthed. So we should take that into account. And I have a number of other comments on some 10 articles. So, given how much time we have at our disposal, a good minute, I would also say that in terms of incorrect, I would say, encouraging and non-incentivising municipalities to provide as much of their own share of the funds as possible. Indeed, the amount of compensation actually collected for the use of the building land is taken into account as the revenue of the municipality in individual years. Instead of the average amount at the state level, as proposed for revenue under Article 21 of the current law, this of course "rewards municipalities which do not collect compensation or collect it only to a limited extent and at a symbolic level". However, those congregations that are already seeking a higher level of compensation will be punished for their own resources. Thus, those who do not collect this compensation will be rewarded. However, those who collect will be punished, which, of course, also risks dissatisfaction of citizens and, of course, the ill will of citizens before the elections. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This may also affect the outcome of the elections. [[...]] In fact, it's an indevelopmental move. I think this should be changed. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Let me continue about where I ended up before. So, we talked about criteria and parameters. And I want to know what criteria these parameters were based on, that is, specific numbers. As I said earlier, it depends very much on how many congregations receive. It is likely appropriate to set these criteria and parameters as a consequence to ensure that municipalities develop and are able to invest in those areas which will, on the one hand, ensure the basic mission of the municipality, namely social care, infrastructure and, on the other hand, that this does not go at the expense of the development mass. Maybe just as a conclusion. Unfortunately, these criteria are exactly the same as they were before, as they were in the law, which is probably very rare and perhaps no one has agreed at least in the form it is. So that the only meaningful projection remained then in that 30% share of capital, which I fear does not provide real substantive progress. I'm sure it would suggest thinking about this, even in terms of my predecessor's debate. Last but not least, the climate. It's very important how these roads are. For those who are already in a worse condition require ever more maintenance. You're only important to their extent, but also to their condition. I've talked about one case before, which means co-financing preschool education. I have not been able to complete such cases before. Why? Because this proportion in many municipalities represents a sixth, a fifth of the total budget. It's emotionally too much, it's emotionally too much. Even more so because it is at the expense of other means that could ensure faster development. Next thing, a regional center, if you want city halls. They are not evaluated anywhere and in no way are they remunerated for the use of infrastructure. There are no residents who migrate there every day. The way in which funding is envisaged does not provide for this. We must by no means bind this compensation to some new taxes on companies that are established or other organizations that operate in a congregation. But it is also possible to use existing contributions as an example. Finally, in your explanation for Austria, you wrote that part of the percentage of building the infrastructure, the parking lot, the road links and everything else these people benefit from, but now most of the funding, as I said before, is not being taken into account. Not to mention, of course, those functions of wider regional importance, such as the provision of culture. We've also heard public transport before and so forth. Next thing. We have also heard a great deal about the transparency of co-financing investments. Therefore, all I would add here is the problem of borrowing municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, in terms of ensuring their own share in project candidatures, in EU projects or in other projects. I would like to point out the small absorption capacity of municipalities and, of course, to over-indebted them on the one hand, on the other hand, they cannot take advantage of all the potentials, they cannot take advantage of all the opportunities offered and afforded by the EU, in their own words. They simply do not have enough money in the budget to provide their own share. However, they have good projects and also a chance to run for them. Let me conclude by saying that it is definitely in this place and in this law that all the new obligations imposed on them must be evaluated and taken into account meaningfully. However, adequate financial resources and other compensation were not provided for this. And when legislation is being prepared for the regions, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This should certainly be taken into account. [[...]] However, I warn you, the Law on Community Financing must start without that assumption because it will be applied and implemented immediately; that is unfortunately [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! After five hours of discussion, which I think is very useful and well-intentioned for this law, which we have on the benches of the National Assembly, shows that it would be good to have 210 laws on the financing of municipalities. That would be best. This would satisfy all Slovenian mayors as well as Members, but we know that this is not how it works and will not work, and we will have to meet some general criteria that are definitely going for the better, definitely. I think that we all attach more or less to this fact today, that the framework is very well prepared, well-made and more proof that we needed this ministry to regulate this area of Slovenian municipalities, which have been neglected in the past. These are the facts. Whoever's guilty, one or the other, doesn't matter. They were neglected. Lately, thank God, there has been a substantial amount of money provided for local communities, for municipalities. And the fact is, in the past, we have imposed new and new obligations on municipalities without financial resources. This is evident by the many projects they have been given. Hence, certain congregations were murmuring, developing, and lagging behind. The fact is, some rich congregations have become richer, poorer. That's proveable. That's not what I'm saying. I'm speaking on the basis of the information I have. And the fact is, what my colleague said before me, many municipalities in the past have not even been able to apply for any serious state project, not to mention European projects because they did not have their own resources and were sentenced to failure despite the will of the municipal administration team and so on. Without your own resources, without your own participation, you couldn't apply for such a serious project for the local community. That is why those poor little congregations were deprived of their resources and were unable to mate with large, rich congregations, who, not generally, were spending public finances irrationally many times. But that's why I think this law, this change, is the right way. With some adjustments, I'm sure. We can still do this until the end of the marriage. I'm sure this is the right direction. I also believe that these finances that we give to local communities, to small and large communities, as well as to small municipalities, have proved to be successful in the past. Most small congregations have been successful, however some do not like these small congregations, but there are too many and so forth. No, it was the will of the people. This was eventually also accepted. And the will of the people was also such that they were content in these congregations. This is important. The reason why there has been a gathering of congregations is likely to be more: dissatisfaction, ignorance of local space, perhaps less interest in peripheral parts of the congregation, and so on. But that's another story. We have 210 municipalities. That's the way it is in the final phase. It's not said to be the final number. Maybe there'll be more. But this, I think, has proved that citizens, citizens in such congregations feel good that their interests are easier to exercise, that they will eventually reach a certain goal that they have not previously been able to implement in those large municipalities. And as far as it goes, it is also important that these small municipalities, which we have many in Slovenia, from east to west, from south to south, of course, have shown their own resources, their own contributions to citizens, etc., and that they have pooled more energy together and thus have enriched these public funds that they have received and have done an enormous amount with this money. However, we need to know, colleagues and colleagues, that there are still many Slovenian citizens, households that do not have their own house on the road these days, that we are not talking about asphalt. How many citizens don't have quality drinking water in their homes? This is a concern, and this concern can be done not by the state, but by this local community, because they know about these problems, with the help of these additional resources. And this is a step in the right direction that citizens in Prekmurje, the White Krajina, perhaps even in Posavje, will come to that level as soon as possible, because many have forgotten what macadam is, what drinking water is. These are the facts. This is for life in Slovenia. Small Slovenia, exceptional differences in municipalities as we have heard many times today, with various needs, wishes and also with the development of such and different levels, all of which brings a positive step. As for those points you've already spoken about, the similarity of the life of all citizens. This one's not far away yet, and never will be, never will be. But it's a good thing that we get closer to the better ones. This is also the desire of this law, not just that, but many others that we will accept in the future, but some of them already. However, thanks go to the government, the Ministry, for finally getting some of the Slovenian municipalities in force in this budget source of additional funds. And all those who have done this in any way, thank you sincerely to all those who have been and who we are still trying to do these things in the future, that if the development of the congregations goes forward, and the development of the provinces and thus Slovenia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you, too. And the minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I just want to explain some things one more time. I think we've fully explained them. As regards the financing of municipalities and the raising of adequate spending in the past period, and this is also the basis for the drafting of the new law itself, I think that a substantial increase has already been made in this period. That is also why we cannot only talk about redistribution of funds. The additional funds are also planned in, I repeat, the balance sheet and the budget for the next two years. As far as the criteria are concerned. In fact, almost every congregation has its own specifics. It means he's got his own criteria. After we studied these things, we decided on purpose, or we thought it was a reasonable decision to keep these criteria, but they are not exactly the same now because they are not the same in weight. And in individual criteria, individual content is covered. Thus, the population under 15 years old, preschool, primary school, will be those after 65 years of age specifics of older citizens. Social, more pronounced and some other things through road infrastructure, of course all municipal infrastructure, including transport and probably could be listed. The same applies, of course, to other criteria. In short, we have taken some more global criteria. We didn't go into specifics, of course, because these particulars are too many. Then, of course, in this sense, we would have completely failed and would have really lost total onset autonomy and would have come into the system of so-called guaranteed spending. As far as compensation is concerned. On average, this is the moment when the compensation is covered to the extent covered by the calculation assessment by making it very clear that the gradual compensation for the withdrawal and that this part is linked to the closure of this law in relation to the public-financial possibilities. However, by the following year, 12% will be able to compensate less here in the municipality and will be able to make a sovereign decision at the end of the five-year transitional period. I'm sure it's going in a positive direction here. But it's really possible at first sight for next year this way. However, the comparison is made. I talk on average. For the municipalities, it shows that it is, in fact, comparable to a calculation estimate, which did not have any legal basis. As for the new obligations, which have been said a lot about here. I must, of course, say this or point out once again that, during this period, at least in my conduct, no new obligations have arisen for the municipalities through the adoption of legislation during this period. Not that we detect these things in our service because we are extremely attentive, extremely restrictive. Of course, it is true that some things are still drawn from the past period. Laws or sub-laws were practically adopted in the previous term. Only now do they come into force and have practical consequences. Some things will also need to be saved. However, it is not possible, I repeat, to address all problems of a problem that is in fact equivalent to national problems with a specific and local level through this law. But, of course, it is necessary to take into account the whole of the legislation and to pay attention when the whole legislation is being adopted. We, too, at our service, propose certain solutions to the sub-legislative acts to individual competent departments. So much for these comments or questions, of course. Otherwise, I would appeal once again to express my support for this law. I am sure that this law is taking the next step in terms of improving the financial situation of the municipalities. It is, of course, true, as I have already mentioned, that this is a process which will, of course, need to be continued in the future. Local self-government is a process. Things change all the time. This should also be borne in mind, and I would like to thank you once again for your attention at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you, too, Minister. Thank you very much for your cooperation. I hereby conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the practice and the rules of procedure of the national assembly, we will decide today, within the framework of the point of vote, which will take place half an hour after the conclusion of the next item, i.e. the 32nd item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 32. Period of the day - the first draft of the law on the rights of patients. I'm informing you that we have an estimated 3 hours and 45 minutes to deal with this matter. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members and Members of Parliament, with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponents, Mrs Majdi Shirca, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! Let me start with some stories that belong to the arsenal of autumn sonatas. It's the first one in November 2004. On 29 November 2004, Minister Bručan at the "hearing" said he agreed to establish the Institute of the Ombudsman. He cited several questions and actions he intended to trigger, from the preparation of the code to the preparation of the course of appeal proceedings, etc. The second autumn of 22 September 2005, when the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic, said that the law on the rights of the patient was thus just before the public debate. He says - this is said to be a good year ago - that the bill is in the government's programme and is ready for public debate. And to wake up on October 27th of the same year, 2005, when the Ministry of Health at the meeting of the National Assembly announced that the Law on the Rights of the Patients would be passed at the end of this year. In short, the government gave him a green light. I am renewing this because, with such information in the Liberal Democracy, despite the fact that the law on patients' rights has already been written, we have waited, thinking, because it is not necessary that the government has already initiated so many activities or so-called law. That's why we waited, waited and waited. Because we didn't wait, we filed the law ourselves. Even so, the government will move and do what it has promised. And so you have a law before you, which, as I say, was written before the last term expired, but because of the voter's decision, it was not filed. I'd like to give you a brief introduction to the law. Let me begin by saying that the health legislation that was in force in early 1992 also identified the rights of patients, with specific health insurance rights that belong only to insured persons. Especially those rights that everyone has under the same conditions. The provisions on patients' rights are in line with the international acts adopted and ratified by Slovenia and do not derogate in substance from the rights granted to patients in comparable European countries. And in practice so far, however, it has proved to be more problematic than the content of individual rights. And the proposed law provides for the precise determination of rights. Affected patients and, in individual cases, their relatives will have the right to be dealt with promptly and effectively. The deadlines for individual procedural tasks are very short, which is expected to lead to the fastest possible and as rational solutions as possible. The patient concerned will certainly remain on the path of justice if he is not satisfied with the decision of the Commission. The procedures laid down in the law should be free of charge for the complainants, i.e. without any charges. The material and other conditions for the work of the Complaints Commission alone will be provided by the operators, where the Commission works for several operators, costs will be proportionately distributed. However, in order to ensure that patients who are always or at least generally weaker in the appeal proceedings do not have adequate expertise, the law also enforces the so-called Ombudsman, which was once defended by the Minister. In short, in the LDS, we want to speed up the regulation of the patient's rights by means of a bill, as current events show that the protection and protection of patients are weak points. Therefore, our call as a call for the proposer to support the proposal in the National Assembly is also valid. We are surprised that the government opposes this. We're only afraid because the proposal isn't theirs, but it's ours. If we wanted to help, we would support and amend the law, correct it in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you. I invite the Secretary of State, Mr Dorian Marusic, to present the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law on the rights of patients submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of Members. In short, the government has assessed that the proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members is not suitable for further consideration. This is the text that was part of the Ministry of Health's contribution to this mandate. However, it came from a working material which was left behind two years ago and on this basis the Ministry upgraded and improved the current composition. I will also argue later why it is not suitable for further consideration. In the proposal for a law on the rights of patients among the reasons for admission, the applicants mention the moveable regulation of appeals procedures in existing legislation and the related ineffective resolution of complaints by patients due to alleged infringements of rights. In order to highlight the procedural aspects of the protection of the patient's rights, the law focuses primarily on the resolution of complaints in the previous procedure and the procedure before the Commission. However, it is important to stress that this proposal is based on the work materials that I have already mentioned and that it will survive slightly in the last two years, due to all the known developments and the accession of Slovenia to the EU and the EU's requirements. In fact, it is an assessment of the views at the time, which are upgraded in today's European space, aimed at protecting patients, protecting their treatment in the processes themselves, aimed at the quality of patients' treatment and their active participation or decision-making in the treatment processes. The proposal before you is so disregarding the material and legal set of provisions, since the content of individual rights is not specifically completed enough to be effective in practice. In short, the principle comments on the proposal for a law are that the internal nonconsistence, nomatechnically and systematically incomplete, that there are no rules of particular importance and that it is questionable to carry out the appeals procedures in practice. Some major deficiencies may be evident in the patients’ rights section itself. In particular, the list of rights cited by the law is flawed, even if we compare it with some international instruments that are not binding, such as the European Charter of Patients' Rights. The same catalogue of rights is more widely defined. Some of the principles in the section on rights on which rights are to be based are not consistently enforced in subsequent provisions. For example, the right to an ethical and professional relationship, the right to reparation, the right to professional quality and safe health treatment. That's why it only exists on a girl's level. It is also a poorly regulated chapter on the right to health care, which is one of the fundamental and universal rights of citizens and citizens and is not envisaged as a single right, but is included in the chapter on information rights. The right to a second opinion is not fully and thoroughly processed. The draft law does not lay down rules for the exercise of rights to respect the pre-expressed will, although there is no reasonable reason not to introduce such an arrangement in Slovenia. We also miss the provisions of the so-called security complication or the right to equal access to health services, the right to preventive services, the right to respect patient time, the right to relief and to prevent suffering. With regard to the section on complaints, it could be noted in particular that the settlement institute was carried out inconsistently, that the proposed regulation of complaints committees at the level of health institutions which would in practice be linked as ineffective. In particular, due to the anticipated organisational and financial difficulties in their implementation, as well as to the difficulty of ensuring impartiality and the participation of civil society representatives which are not sufficiently specific. If I am trying to conclude with arguments why the government does not think that this law is suitable for further consideration, let me say that the Ministry of Health has prepared a proposal for a law on patients' rights, that this was in a broad public debate that ended at the end of the summer and that the law is now in inter-departmental coordination and will be forwarded to the government as soon as possible and later, I hope, to Parliament as well. The law in the public debate was discussed and produced in cooperation with the working groups, which were extended by representatives of eminent legal and medical experts and supplemented by them. Nevertheless, we have received a number of comments, proposals for complementarity. We have taken many of them into account in the proposal for a law that we will shortly submit for consideration. This is how we believe that we have resolved, upgraded all the shortcomings that I mentioned at the outset and presented with the law that is before today's treatment. Our proposal for a law, as I have already mentioned, is in interdepartmental coordination and should be sent for admission to the government in a short time. In short, we assess that the proposal for a law tabled by a group of Members is a step backwards. Above all, the differences between the two proposals of the law are too extensive between the proposal for a bill on the rights of patients submitted by a group of Members, the proposals of the law, in particular the injustice prepared by the Ministry of Health, to be eliminated only by amendments. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the view that the proposal for a law on the rights of patients submitted by a group of Members is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker! Members of the DeSUS believe that the law to regulate this area must be aimed at improving the quality of treatment and reducing adverse events. In short, it must make order in the chaotic injustice of patients' rights. One of the main rights of the patient is certainly the right to co-decision on the course of his treatment and for which the State must provide him with good legal and real grounds. However, the patient becomes responsible for the outcome of the treatment with cooperation. It is estimated that Slovenian patients have not yet taken over these applications. They're too passive in relation to the doctor. They are not aware of their rights and thus do not play an active role at the time of their medical treatment, as would be necessary for better treatment options. It is true, however, that more and more patients are already very well informed on the one hand. On the other hand, they are well aware that they are providers of health care services. And certainly as consumers, if I use this term, they have the right to participate in the choice of treatment. Today, for most diseases, we have different treatment options. It is appropriate to inform the patient in detail and to allow him to participate in the decision-making process. It is therefore essential that the legal regime of this area is aimed at greater confidence between the doctor and the patient. It is essential to regulate the partnership between patients and health care providers if we want to avoid all frequent short-term contacts with them, and when handling medical documentation owned by the patient, however, it often ends up in unauthorized hands or to exercise the right to another opinion, which in practice still causes a lot of problems. The proposed law does not regulate this issue in a legal system-wide manner, as it does not allow the full application of patients' rights. In our view, however, it focuses only too much on the system of complaint. We estimate that the specific issues offered by the proposal are not sufficiently carefully addressed and inconsistent. On the other hand, some of the issues that the proposal should necessarily address are not addressed. On the basis of these shortcomings in the DeSUS Group, it is estimated that the proposal for a patient's rights law in the follow-up proceedings would be extremely difficult to complete to the extent that it systematically and comprehensively regulates the legal basis for the exercise of the protection of the rights of the patient. While we welcome and appreciate the initiative of Members who have put forward this proposal to contribute to a greater level of legal certainty and equality in the field of patient rights. However, we note that the proposal does not adequately address the area under consideration due to these shortcomings. On this basis, we estimate that the proposal is incomplete and insufficient and is therefore not suitable for further consideration, so we will not support DeSUS Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Nice greetings to all present. Under this law, patients' rights will be determined precisely. Individuals affected, i.e. patients, and in individual cases their relatives will have the right to deal with their complaints quickly and effectively. It would be best if there were no complaints. The deadlines for individual procedural tasks are very short, which is expected to lead to the fastest possible and as rational a solution as possible. However, the patient remains on trial if he is not satisfied with the Commission’s decision. Procedures are supposed to be free of charge for these applicants, i.e. without any fees. For health or patient rights, a special guardian will be established to enable patients who are always, or at least generally, a weaker party, because they do not have the necessary expertise, to exercise their rights as effectively as possible. This will help patients with legal and other guidance on how to guide them to appropriate procedures. He will also be able to participate in the proceedings as his delegate. In considering the proposal for a law on patients' rights, I would also like to point out that patients are entitled to a rapid and thorough review of effective medicines. All patients should be granted equal rights without protectionism and a level playing field for patients on the periphery. Let this one be like the lucky ones who live in the centers. It is also necessary to maintain all hospitals built by the inhabitants of individual towns throughout Slovenia, largely with their own resources. Difficult and at risk patients should be provided transport to health centres. Regional patients have significant material costs in relation to transport, scholarship and additional travel costs, and the financier must also take into account the distance of individual regional hospitals. One more thing. In regional hospitals patients have the right to receive a rest and a smiling doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you, too. Ambassador Franz Jazbec will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware of the issue of patients' rights. This is a very sensitive area that needs to be addressed with all its responsibility. The area which is trying to regulate the proposal for a patient's rights law needs to be addressed in an integrated and systematic manner. In an integrated manner, a high level of legal certainty and equality will be achieved. Especially since existing or existing patient rights are affected by the Health Act, the Medical Service Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act. The latter in terms of the exercise of healthcare rights. In the SDS Group, we appreciate the initiative of Members and Members to contribute to greater legal certainty and equality in the general rights of the patient by introducing the proposed law. On the other hand, we note that the proposal did not take into account the activities of the Ministry of Health, which in the last year is carrying out activities in the field of the protection of the rights of the patient in accordance with the timetable. The proposal for a law on patient rights prepared by the Ministry of Health, due to the complexity and sensitivity of the area, as well as thorough and quality discussions and preparations, gave rise to public hearing this spring. There are also numerous contributions from legal experts in professional journals. In the SDS, we are aware that everyone has the right to the highest possible level of health and health care and the duty to take care of his or her health and to contribute to the realization of health care as far as possible. At the same time, we are aware that the content needs to be regulated thoroughly and qualitatively. After a thorough examination of the proposal for a law on the rights of the patient put into the legislative procedure by the Group of Members and Members, we consider that the proposal is weak and incomplete and therefore inappropriate for further consideration. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will give the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting to the representatives and representatives of the Ministry and to colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, unlike some of the predecessors, we think that we have tackled the real, important problem of the problem, the problems of many of our citizens and citizens. That is why we have also decided to put the proposal for a law on patient rights into the legislative procedure and thus speed up the procedure. In particular, because at the beginning of his term of office, the Minister has made a clear and clear promise that he will prepare a draft law regulating the area of patient rights by the end of 2005. There is still no law in the legislative procedure. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we once again call out loud: So, finally, from words to action! The latest medical events, if I mention drug testing on our patients, operating tables, the story of cytopathological tests, are going exactly to protect the patient. It is therefore necessary to draw up a law to protect patients and to enable them to exercise their rights. Finally, the Ombudsman’s annual warnings say that something must finally be done and moved forward, for the better for all of us. When considering laws in the National Assembly, Members are repeatedly reminded of the proposals for laws proposed by the Government without adequate analysis. However, too long a time limit for consideration also means harm. Let me recall that, following a closed public debate on the global Internet, the government procedure for the adoption of this law has not yet officially begun. We have also met several times on this subject at individual meetings of the National Assembly. For example, at the first emergency meeting of the Health Committee, the candidate for the Minister of Health was still defending the following statement, which I quote: "The establishment and functioning of the Institute of the Ombudsman, I think that in Slovenia many are left to themselves, again too many health institutions or health organizations, and that they do not have the opportunity to fully exercise their rights. This Ombudsman has been assessed quite well in Maribor so far, and I think it would be good to extend this practice to all Slovenia." [[End of story.]] A long time ago, the minister. And the Minister's words at the October 2005 meeting on the Ombudsman's report, he says: "The Ministry will regulate this area by law on patients' rights or on patient's rights. The law on these rights provides for respect for the principles of rights. It also provides for an appeal procedure in such a way that it will be possible to resolve complaints quickly, so that they will be resolved at the place where they occurred." The special guardian of the patient's rights does not provide for the law, but provides for representatives of the patient's rights. The envisaged deadline for the adoption of this law is at the end of this year, with a period of about one month. But this period is almost a year ago. Therefore, in our House of Members, we believe that the lack of a more precise definition of the individual rights of the patient and the formalised procedure for their enforcement is a problem because patients do not know what to expect and enforce, and what are the possibilities of the complaint and the ways of the complaint in the event of a violation of their rights. Only if the rights are precisely determined will the individual be able to exercise the right guaranteed by law to others. We stress, however, that the accumulated problems of patients in the healthcare system cannot be solved by strengthening the control mechanisms, but by solving the problems in nature. The proposal for this law constitutes a list of patients' substantive and legal rights. We therefore welcome the system law for this area, which will go towards a quicker and more friendly resolution of disputes. In any case, at the end of this public presentation, I also felt that the law was not so bad that it could not be improved so that amendments could not be corrected so that it could not be upgraded. This would save time and many of our patients and patients a lot of relief, especially that moment, the most important problem in life. Above all, I am adding myself to allow adequate protection and health care for the financially weaker, socially disadvantaged. In short, more and more self - paying services are hard to afford for those in this country and others. Last but not least, I remind you of the article published today in Ljubljana's Journal, which is a strategy for treating patients with cancer. Finally, it notes the cruel fact that in the coming years, with regard to the ageing of the population, every third citizen of Europe, and thus the Republic of Slovenia, will be subject to cancer. What cancer treatment is and what the outcome is, however, depends at a large stage on where the patient is at home and what the medical possibility of medical diagnostics and appropriate therapy is in his place. In the end, I would like to point out that we have to go into this story, and this also concerns patients' rights, that those who suffer from cancer in the Market, or those who suffer from cancer in Hotiza, will have the same opportunities for quality diagnostics, treatments and survival as those who live permanently in the centre of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the efforts of law-makers to regulate the rights of patients by law. At least it does not matter to us who first composed the working text of this law or who copied it from whom. The law, I am thinking of today's proposal, is a suitable basis for a second reading when the text under consideration could be substantially amended by a government or a ministry that is not a bill-maker. In doing so, it is clear to us in the Group of Social Democrats that there is no real possibility of receiving opposition proposals in this Assembly. The deadline set by the Minister for the preparation of his proposal for the law expired at the end of last year. Interestingly, the Ministry of Health notes that the proposed law is one of the working materials, their working materials. Then, almost in the same paragraph, he makes a set of impressions on this same proposal and considers it inappropriate because he has a better one in preparation. And if in a year they have managed to turn their bad product into a better marriage, they will also be able to change the law within the parliamentary majority, which, by the way, is completely uncritical of government proposals, according to their expertise. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have also made a comparison with the law prepared by the Ministry when reading today's bill. After this comparison, it is clear to us why the government law is still not in the procedure. Their proposal also raises more questions than answers. The law, which will effectively protect patients' rights, must very precisely define both the rights of patients on the one hand and the obligations of healthcare providers on the other. At the time of general consideration, let me mention just a few concerns or dilemmas that will need to be addressed in the second reading. The law lays down precisely the obligations of public institutions following the establishment of expert commissions to deal with complaints. Is it a reasonable solution to resolve complaints where the complaint was brought? It's probably the right solution. The experience we have gained in similar handling of complaints, i.e. with regard to police work - and even then the dilemmas were opened as they are today, whether this is the right way to deal with complaints first where they arise and only later elsewhere - has proved to be the right solution. Well, it's probably a good solution. In particular because this does not rule out the judicial path remaining for a patient who feels damaged in the treatment process. However, all who have less than 20 employees will have to be or will be involved in the functioning of these committees, which will be set up by institutions with more than 20 employees of health workers. This raises the question of the payment and replacement of so-called discharges in the performance of the regular work of doctors. It will also be necessary to define the obligations of so-called private doctors more precisely. The right to free choice. It is right that individuals have the right to choose a doctor freely. There is no provision for appropriate competence. The following is the right of a healthcare professional to refuse in duly justified cases the medical treatment of the patient he has chosen. I am convinced that it would be very unusual, for example, for older patients to choose doctors or doctors who normally treat the preschool and school population. That is why I am talking about the urgency of having adequate qualifications in the law of choice. The patient may only be covered up with certain information except where the physician considers that it could cause harm to the patient’s condition under all circumstances, but it would not have significant positive effects at the same time. These are the general criteria for individual decisions on what to tell the patient and what to silence the patient. It would cause too much confusion and subjective assessments on both sides. Names and surnames, professional titles and so on must be published in a prominent place. Employees will wear pins to help them understand who the patient or patient is dealing with. The trail still requires a presentation. I think that might be a little excessive. When we speak or define the rights of patients to information, it is likely that it will be necessary to consider standards that bind healthcare professionals. If the doctor has about 10 minutes for the patient, it will be very difficult to exercise the right to complete information. Therefore, in parallel with the adoption of this law, it will also be necessary to give serious consideration to the standards prescribed by the insurance company or the Health Insurance Authority, or which are defined as the obligation of the physician according to the individual patient. The law, which has been published on the sides of the Ministry of Health, sets out in more detail the right to decide on itself and the consent after clarification. I am convinced that part of this law should also be incorporated into this law, which we are considering today. In addition, many provisions will need to be supplemented or more precisely laid down. As usual, rights must be protected by the possibility of appeal. In doing so, it is very important that the complaint provides an easy, quick, effective solution based on the patient's good information on all rights and ways of exercising them. Patients are certainly in the process of treatment in a fateful dependence on the quality of healthcare professionals. It is important that we know our rights, but we will also be limited in the future to real doctors and healthcare organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! In view of all the issues that have recently opened up in the field of health, it is repeatedly and again that it shows how important it is to regulate patients’ rights. In New Slovenia, we agree with the claim that patients' rights are only at first sight a narrowly specialised group of rights, as they reveal their full width in a slightly more detailed way. Humans touch everything from his birth to his death, in some cases even after his death. Patients’ rights are also intertwined with the most important human goods, such as life, health, honor, and personal freedom. Therefore, their definition in the legal system and its implementation are all the more important. The patient is in a relationship with the entire healthcare staff and the healthcare system in a very subordinate position. And in this system, it can run into obstacles that alone without help are often unable to overcome. Therefore, when we act as patients, we need to be able to provide direct information, advice and assistance when the possibilities for the exercise of health rights are not clear. What is particularly important is that independent institutions deal with these specific problems and complaints from patients. Currently, we have two draft laws in Slovenia that talk about patients' rights. Members and members of the opposition have put one in the parliamentary procedure and we are discussing it today. Secondly, after a broad public debate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared and is currently in intersectoral coordination. Even now, we can draw an essential line between one and the other. I must point out that the proposal of the opposition Members is more than a copy of the bill drafted by the previous Minister but has not been adopted. The government draft law, however, was in a broad public debate. And that makes it a good journey to make it more complex. What kind of marriage would be good? It will be a good law that raises the confidence of patients in the independence of their decisions on their rights when they have doubts about their rights. After talking to people, the problem so far is in the appeals proceedings, which represent the patient's lack of confidence in independence, the impartiality of the complaint decision-makers. Here comes the first advantage of a government draft. This gives greater weight to civil society representatives, as their participation in the decision-making process on rights is of paramount importance. According to our assessment, the opposition has drawn up an unfortunate solution when it foresees a very extensive appeal committee apparatus, which would in practice prove to be an organisational financial and professionally complex and complex system. Many commissions may cause complications with regard to appointments, unequal professional representation in different parts of the country, the uneven practice of resolving patient complaints, the lack of independence and confidentiality of procedures and so on. In Nova Slovenija, we estimate that the draft government proposal for a patient's rights law contributes significantly to the better transparency of patients' rights, since it combines all patients' rights in one place. Today's proposal for a law from a systemic point of view is not comprehensive, which may result in ineffective treatment and resolution of complaints by patients in appeals proceedings. Above all, complaints should be resolved as close as possible to the point of origin where there have been reported irregularities. In view of the belief that the government proposal will better regulate the area, we will not support the bill of discussion in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Patients' rights are an important area that will need to be more systematically regulated in Slovenia and ensure the quality and effective protection of patients' rights. The proposed law on patients' rights is one of the versions of the law that is being drawn up at the Ministry of Health, as the government's opinion shows. At the Ministry, a special working group of medical and legal experts has also been preparing a proposal for a law in recent months. The law, which is being prepared at the Ministry, should regulate in an integrated and particularly more thorough manner with the same content as the proposed law. In doing so, we cannot ignore the fact that a broad public debate was also held at the Ministry of Health on the proposal for a law, through which the proposal for a law has been finalised and improved. In this presentation, I do not wish to comment specifically on the proposed law, as these are defined in the Government's view of the proposed law. I would like to stress, however, that we expect Members of the Slovenian People's Party to put their law into the procedure soon. This is, last but not least, already in interdepartmental coordination and will soon be addressed by the Members of the National Assembly. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposed law, although we support the principled direction of a law that wants to contribute to greater legal certainty and equality in the field of patient rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all. The law or bill on the rights of patients that we have before us, which has been tabled by the Liberal Democracy, is in fact a copy of the former "Cebrove" law. The reason why the Liberal Democracy has introduced this law is actually to beat the government so that it does not file its own law. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that this law, according to the domestic statement, is quite confused together with different ends and places and rather unconsistent, so we will not support it in the Slovenian National Party. There is one good thing, and of course it is also taken from elsewhere, namely that the law is supposed to introduce the official guardian of patients' rights. However, it should be noted that the Slovenian National Party or its Member, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, submitted a written initiative to the Minister of Health of the Republic of Slovenia on 13 April 2005, proposing that the function of the official Ombudsman of patients' rights be established. Indeed, we need this guardian, because Mr Hanžek says he is not responsible for these matters unless, of course, they are gypsies. The fact is that in this case the Slovenian National Party supports the intent of the law, and by no means does it support the law itself, which, as I have already said, is quite confused from various ends together. This is the starting point where, for example, some kind of settlement should also be made between a doctor who made a mistake or who has sometimes made a fatal mistake in his treatment, but that, of course, the doctor and the patient could somehow settle on a level playing field. One wonders when the proponents say that in this case it would be the fastest and the cheapest of matters: For whom would this be the cheapest handling of matters? Surely for a doctor, for this would result in a doctor’s being evicted from a grip that could otherwise be pushed professionally. Despite the fact that the affected patient in the next stage remains still on trial later if he is not satisfied with the decision of that Senate where the gentlemen's doctors will hold on to each other's "stango" is the question of how long the patient will be willing to continue to pursue his case, or if he still has the financial means to take the matter forward or in the final sequence, as long as he has sufficient health to go forward with the matter if he is still alive. In short, things are very interesting. Moreover, one wonders: What should be the penalty for those doctors who have committed or who have been guilty of certain professional mistakes? Would a warning before being expelled or reproofed by a classmate or would only a mother come to school? In short, the matter is very funny, incomplete and inconsistent. The person also asks: Where did the money for these compensations come from in the event of payment of certain compensations? Would the money for this compensation be provided by the medical board? Should the doctor himself have contributed to the matter? Would you rather hang this on the state budget? I think it's pretty unfinished, pretty pointless. Even when they propose to have at least one representative of civil society in this Chamber to decide on errors and assess the weight of these errors. A dictatorship, having at least one representative of civil society, means having only one representative of civil society. Everyone else would be doctors. And according to the old Slovenian saying that crows do not rule out eyes, we know what the results or consequences of these thoughts and these conceptual conclusions of this bill would be. In short, it's pointless to talk about everything in this marriage. It is also not worth starting other matters when it comes to, for example, the proposal that it violates the principles of equality based on the number of employees in the institution and similar matters. In short, there's a lot of underdevelopment. The purpose which was in the Liberal Democracy to outrun the government and to recover from something, thinking, because they will adopt the law and then correct it in the amendment form and improve it, in such ways we do not agree with the Slovenian National Party, and we do not support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The debate will proceed according to the list or schedule transmitted to you. I won't name those who aren't in the hall. Mr. Franz Kangler has the word or rather [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Majda Potter, please. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Health is certainly priceless for each of us. Especially when health problems arise. At that time, we are all aware of the importance of maintaining health. I am firmly convinced that the country is certainly the first among those who have to provide with their institutions the possibility of maintaining our health and, finally, ensuring when such a situation arises. And here it is necessary to have systemically designed solutions that the state must ensure that we have health care provided in an appropriate way that ensures an adequate level for each of us. However, it is necessary to point out here that every individual must also be aware that his role is also extremely important in that, together with the institutions, with the medical profession or with all those involved in this system, they work hand in hand and try to ensure such solutions that are acceptable to all of us. In order to ensure this, we need to look for systemic solutions. Such a law on the protection of patients' rights is an important part of this system-wide solution. At least that's what I understand. By stressing here that each patient must also be aware of his or her responsibilities. But well, it's not a matter of this law. This law, which we are dealing with today, can also be hailed as an attempt. Although I agree with the conclusion made by the predecessor of Victory Jelinčič that this law has been introduced primarily as an attempt to outrun the government and therefore I personally understand that this law or the content of this law is not sufficiently appropriate, not all solutions are fully defined or are not mandated. That's why he's so flawed. Even the government that has given its position to this law has brought down a variety of shortcomings, inadequacies contained in such a law. I also share the view that amendments to this law cannot be transformed to such an extent that this law can then fully regulate this extremely important area. That is why I support this decision that the Government should also adopt its law as soon as possible in the government, and put it into the procedure. Because I am sure that this marriage will have these solutions more comprehensively, more systematicly and will be more appropriate for all, both patients and health professionals. That is why I will not support this law that we are considering today. I also expect or appeal to the Ministry to put this proposal into the procedure as soon as possible, so that we can come up with a solution that will contribute to what we are all looking for, to better and better health care for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. Because the debate went into something, I'm going to say, a literary historical direction, but I'm going to touch it. First, an indication that this was copied from one of the working versions. Then it is obvious that this is actually a summary or a copy of something prepared by Minister Keber. Then it is obvious that this is related to questions from the Members of Parliament. Of course, the matter must be such that something new cannot be invented. However, to increase or reduce the patient’s rights, of course. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, however, we thought that this issue should be settled. Because the government was snitching because the ministry was snitching on its proposal, there was a proposal that was what you had in front of you. But we don't know what the government proposal is. Indeed, we have heard now several times that it is much better. But where is this proposal? What's he really like? We have also heard that there is a large working group of lawyers and doctors behind him. Where, though, are the nurses who are likely to have a powerful influence on how patients’ rights are exercised? Where are the deontologists? But justice is not just a matter of law and medical profession. But it's a deep ethical issue. Who's gonna talk about it? Is any of these in this group? It could be someone who's going to answer that question right now. But basically, there were two marriages here. One we don't know what he's like because he hasn't been published anywhere. He's not even in the procedure. And one you have in front of you. And, of course, I am counting on you to vote in favour of this proposal, and then, if it turns out in the second reading that it is really impossible to amend it, it is no problem, it is rejected and the government comes up with its really designed proposal. And because of me, everything that my colleagues have written can be included in their proposal. There won't be any anger. We're not going to look at who's signed under the motion. But there are still questions that are open. At the same time, I apologize for not reading the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Of course, we talk a lot about patients' rights. I hope that those to whom this law is intended most will participate in the creation of this law. These are patients, that is. They need him the most. And let's mention these rights again. The many who will hear this today are unaware of most of these rights. Therefore, let us repeat the general rights of patients: the right to health care, the right to humane treatment, the right to free choice of physician, the important right to consult relevant experts, the right to information, the right to consent to medical treatment, the right to refuse the proposed medical procedures, an important right to have access to medical records, the right to data transfer and the right to request relocation, the right to object, an important right to money - the right to be informed about the cost of treatment and, most importantly, the right to redress due to inadequate treatment. Most of these matters were provided for by us in this law. I just don't understand how you don't agree to upgrade, repair and improve good marriage, but the solution to a problem that is up to date every day, which requires and how you touch thousands of Slovenes and Slovenians, you're putting somewhere in a better enabling future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you. A government representative has the floor. Would you like Mr. Marusich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you. Very briefly. I think that, in the introductory part, I have been sufficiently exhausted and given sufficient arguments why the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. However, I should be allowed to steal another minute to explain some of this. In short, in the initial preparation of this law we have used certain thesis or drafts from the law that you now have before you. However, I have pointed out that in the last three years in the European area, health systems have turned to greater safety, to greater quality of patients and to the certainty of the law before you. I have already pointed out that certain chapters and certain rights have been released, not sufficiently defined, but I should try to convince you with the most hard argument. The law, which is achievable, has been mentioned by one of the Members, has gone through a public debate on our website. So, those to whom the law was intended were included. So, patients, hospitals, citizens, citizens, what the law doesn't have in front of you. It's his main flaw. However, it is difficult or impossible to upgrade it with amendments. Because the difference is already in the articles. The law before you has 48 articles. And our 76 members. And two other important differences. After a broad public debate, we introduce an advocate of patients' rights, and the resolution process is not at the second level at the level of the State Commission, but at the local community. I hope the last three arguments are the ones that will convince you. In particular, such a law, which is intended for the rights of patients, of course, must include patients, hospitals, citizens, citizens in the debate or preparation. And they're with our marriage. That is why the preparation process itself is so long, for there were indeed many comments on the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you. The representative of the proposers shall have the floor. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. In fact, the main comment is to address the current words or opening words of the Secretary of State. The minister is not here today, but he has the right to ever leave. In short, Mr Secretary of State, you say that you have prepared in the past some bad text that you will now, after two, three years of correcting the situation, not say so literally, but you have been employed by the Ministry of Health in the past and by Mr Kebra's co-worker, who has already dealt with this text. At the very beginning of my presentation, it was stressed that I was talking about the fall sonatas and all those fall moments when you predicted something that didn't happen years ago and that we were waiting for this already prepared text almost two years ago. In short, the good situation is changing. We understand that times are changing, too. Today you say that patients need to be asked, I don't know, this discussion or I don't feel this debate in the public space, whether associations have been asked what the discussion is about, and we don't even see any comments on your website. But anyway, we're just going to face another text that's just going to have more articles, 76th instead of 48th. As you say, it will be better because they follow you now before they even know the text, because the entire coalition has actually repeated as a parrot that this is something that is going to be perfect and because, unfortunately, it doesn't have the right signature. We are not genuine signatories, as the opposition colleague has already found out, and will not be adopted today. In fact, it is known that for two and a half years nothing else is going on, not only with the laws, but also with the articles of individual laws, when they are wrong signatures, they are rejected, rejected, sometimes spitted out. But I will understand that this proposal will speed up some of the activities that have stopped and that today with certain alibis, how Europe demands something new or just assumes that these things have stopped because of such heavy matter and, of course, because of such difficult conditions in Europe. In short, I will understand that this rejection, as well as this introduction of this law, which has, by the way, been extensively put into discussion, rectified in certain questionable solutions, will nevertheless be beneficial for patients or patients, since, after all, we are talking only about them today. It doesn't really matter who's signed, where, and it doesn't matter who's who just to make a good marriage happen. Let's just say it will. Of course, I'd rather see and think it makes sense and not difficult, absolutely not difficult, that your homework from a few years ago would have upgraded with amendments, because it would have saved a lot of time and because this is not new at all in this national assembly. Sometimes A to Z marriages are rewritten with amendments. There's no need here. If not the other one, you have a very very good explanation. Why I say it is important that we somehow save ourselves some time, not only because you are late, but also because at a time when the public health system is being broken down, in fact, the issue of rights and the options and paths that we face are being faced by patients, they are increasing, and this is a decision that is obviously true in principle that we also use this instrument in Slovenia. In short, it would make sense for the procedure to roll out faster than it will now, when you think about it for a while, but, as I say, perhaps less than if you or you did not file this law for me. I have to fix it. Of course, there's some ignorance that came out of the debate today. It was pronounced. This marriage has already been filed, and it has been rejected. Of course, that doesn't apply. This is simply a testimony to the fact that it is a generalized and quick rejection of valuable matter, where it is not necessary to even take a deeper look at what it brings. But only enough to refer to the first signatories to this law. In short, I think the ego is so strong in the case of coalition parties that they've already invented some imaginary hairs in the egg, what there in the law is somehow not in favour of this measure, that we are dealing with how far someone must be from the question of violating a certain right, which is, of course, very funny and naive. The fact that it is not a matter of overcoming the government at all costs, which, of course, Mr Trinitarians has tried to enforce, even by cross-reading something and not even reading it well enough. It is enough that he has come to report that, in addition to the Ombudsman, there are also guardians of gypsies, as he says, who are incompatible with him. But let's just let it go. I don't want to turn. However, it is not possible for us to rush and beat the government at all costs, and then we would put this law in place when we considered it. And we didn't purposely tell him that you were going to be alone. Personally, I do not think that it is really appropriate to postpone this decision by means of a totally good and European comparable law, such as the one we have tabled. And because of this principled decision to go into this, I finally said, at the hearing, the minister applauded you or said that he was going to deal with this problem. Why do I think it is necessary to acquire these grounds of marriage? Because patients may be different in other countries, but first of all, I will say that in America as in Europe, they still make decisions from doctors with a certain passivity and with that already entrenched feeling that the patient is powerless to visa authority, represented by a doctor, which is of course true. The doctor has many times in his hands, and perhaps there is a requirement for certain information or information or a request or a disagreement with his conduct, but it is often addressed to some fear and to the restraint of this authority or to the possible consequences, if any. We recognize this, it's maintaining some kind of relationship. And that's why the question is, do I have the right to be better informed than I am? Can I look for a different opinion without resenting the doctor who is healing me or anyone else, or can I interrupt a certain process and turn to others, since it is many times a moral, ethical question? But in this law, they are also saved by regulations from what and what value, strength and power, when data can be silenced and when not. In short, dear Ministry of Health, you may be quick to take certain steps that you spoke of two and a half years ago, you, more than two and a half years ago, because you were in the old constitution of the Ministry and if that's all, it can be a pleasure for us in the opposition, because your signatures are not yours, the law is wrong, but when yours will be fine before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I see she only raised her hand to Mrs. Potrate. Here you go, Mrs. Potter. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. You must have guessed because I was skipped first because of my guilt. Of course, because I wasn't here, that I would like to say something, now, of course, at a shorter time than I would if I took advantage of the previous opportunity. For me, dealing with a law on rights that protects the sick or all those who come in contact with health institutions or individuals who provide health services is no novelty because we have discussed a lot in the previous term whether it would suggest introducing the Ombudsman of these special rights or not. Last but not least, we have experience in Maribor with the Ombudsman. Here I would begin my consideration of the fact that in the Government's view, while reading, that one of the weaknesses of this law is also the institution of the Ombudsman, which is not envisaged as a special Ombudsman under Article 159(2) of the Constitution, but rather as a defence. First of all, allow me to explain my concerns, which I will relate to some of the other general indications that this law is inconsistent, incomplete, that it does not have a good deal of individual important issues. But the government is also inconsistent in its responses, because, indirectly through its representatives in the world of RTV, it has allowed the Ombudsman to be written there and not within the framework of the Ombudsman's Institute. So the guardian's word itself may or may not be problematic. And from here it takes me to think about the second part of the name, whether it be the guardian or the guardian of the patient's or the patient's rights. Given that we already have such an institution that operates, tested, I would expect the Slovenian name to be established. Last but not least, I listened closely to the Secretary of State who spoke about the dialogue with the patients involved in the debate on the law. And I'm going one step further. The law proposed by the Group of Members and Members is called the Patients' Rights Act. The law that the government is going to submit is what it says here in the end, but it will be a law on patient rights. And then we can ask again why patients, why not patients. This is not the only thought that I have, depending on the answer or the opinion of the government, because I also understand that Slovenian is probably the first language to describe things. I would therefore ask that even in the future, if it is too late now, the Slovenian names should be used first and those who are usually in the European Union should be put to the test, because some things must be taken into account. It's that part on the fourth page that talks about the previous statement of will, something else, it's not the only English name. I can also have some doubts with the government's opinion as to whether this text is good enough or not. But the reasons for rejecting this bill are, excuse me, but of such nature that they could be disputed in view of the fact that we have already adopted a number of laws in this national assembly, for which the opposition has identified such weaknesses as they are. As the general weaknesses mentioned at the outset, and I have previously quoted them, then we have eliminated them with amendments to the parent’s working body in any way. I would also like the Government to be consistent in its explanation when it speaks about why the right to second opinion in Article 13 is not well regulated. The opinion states: due to excessive financial obligations. The Secretary of State has now given another reason. Not to mention the involvement of civil society or the representative of civil society [[End warning sign]] which is or is not included. And so many other things could be found that could be challenged by the rejection of the government. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 16.20. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue to hold a meeting of the National Assembly, which is to move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the end of the 33rd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 19. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the mother's working body for a second reading. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the bill on patients' rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the rights of patients, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 36. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on explosive remnants of war annexed to the convention on the prohibition or restriction of the use of certain types of classical weapons, for which it can be counted that they have transboundary traumatic effects or that they act equally in terms of objectives. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 37. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. First of all, we are moving to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Higher Education Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the text of the law has been formally revised. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the electoral campaign law is confirmed." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the Assembly will consider 10 proposals by the Judicial Council for election in judicial capacity, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council, a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, proposals for decisions on election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted 10 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of eight inter-national courts in the district court in Celje and Maribor, a district judge in the district court in Ljutomer and a district court in the district court in Novi Gorica. Does he want a representative of the Judicial Council? No, no, no. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as a mother's work and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no speakers for the debate, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I put to the vote the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Romina Jezernik to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Polone Kidrič to the judicial seat of the District Court in the District Court of Celje. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lidija Kralj to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Pavič to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Irene Peer to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Celje. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 for them, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Goraz Tivadar, the District Court Judge in the District Court in Ljutomer. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 for them, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nataša Vižintin Komel, to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 of whom voted against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Jasmine Obrovnik Gril, judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Valerija Pirš, to the judicial seat of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members were present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Bibiana Šilc, judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members were present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a broadcasting council. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a mandate-holder commission for consideration by the assembly. The panellists are not in the debate, so I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. Explanation of the vote first on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mrs. Shirca, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Democracy, we will reject this proposal. There's a lot of reasons for that. We know that the very path to this proposal has been long, extremely farce and inappropriate. The decision should have been adopted already in September, but because the crop leaves were not sufficiently harmonised or prepared at all, even though the candidates concerned had come and applied, at least after meeting the conditions, there had been an empty vote. In short, to reject the proposal, which would otherwise have been submitted by the opposition proposed party, because the positions of the coalition members of Kviaz did not vote. Now we have a male composition that is not only disputed by the sex structure, but also by its profiles. Mr Borut Dolanc is a member of the Executive Committee of Trebnja, the Municipal Committee of SDS. Mr. development engineer Valerij Grašič is a member of the NSi Municipality of Kranj, in Cobis he has no hit in bibliographical scores, bibliography of researchers, only his degree and master's. Civil social activity, of course, belongs to the Slovenian community of Christian life. Ex-Director of Radio student doc. Dejan Jalovec is a contracting entity, alleged writer of the law on RTV, also involved in the pre-referendum campaign, a member of the supervisory board in the new composition of Dela, including an expert writer and subscriber at Iersa, is hereby represented by the contractor of the Institute for Development and Strategic Analysis, who receives all the business, majority business in the new coalition, not to mention, for example, the informatics of Mitju Katavich, who also has no hits in Cobis, but has a story since 2000, which he takes to the judge for offences. Well, the title of his graduation assignment is also questionable. What I'm saying is that at the second Quiaz, at the second session of Kviaz, you put together a suitable, as it were called, tool in the form of a "plonk" leaf, which, of course, covered what I just said - client affiliation and professional curiosity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Mrs. Shirca, and how will the LDS vote? [[A laugh in the hall.]] Oh, she's already told you in the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Mr. Tuckyat, in your magnetogram, you will see that I told you right away at the beginning that there would be no mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Is there any other desire to explain your voice in a personal name? Check-in is on. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't surprise you. In fact, as with the other LDS Members and Members, I will vote against this decision. As colleague Majda Shirca said, after this scandalous complication you proposed to appoint this broadcasting council, I would also like to tell you who you did not and who you rejected. I have in front of me a bibliography and a bibliography of one of those you rejected, which is actually the most eminent expert in information and media communication today. And it would take at least 20 minutes to read to you everything that this candidate has. Experience, internationally recognised qualifications and experience, participation in many organisations, including participation in ICANN expertise. So it's an international organisation that gives out domain names. So, an expert and an expert who makes this mistake that it's not the right color. I want to tell you that of the relatively small number of experts in the field of media communication and broadcasting, you have chosen names that in this world, nicely said, mean nothing. But they said no to those who mean something. And this is bad for this world, which will have to deal with things like digitisation, a new way of calling for frequencies, and this world will be a poor knowledge of the victims of predatoric interests in these media structures. Of course, you have done so in your own will and taste - bad and sad. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	I regret that some colleagues and colleagues use such a way of discussing themselves and insult fellow citizens and fellow citizens because they are not supposed to be professional under their criteria. Although someone has a master's degree in telecommunications, he's not supposed to be an expert in broadcasting. But nowhere was the condition of how many times he has to be hit in Cobis, and he thinks that this is really unfair and unfair and that this is not the level at which we Members can talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-03-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you. Any other wishes for an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. The draft decision was tabled by the SDS Group of Members for consideration. The panellists are not present, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for decisions on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health. The draft decision was tabled by the SDS Group of Members for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for decisions on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice weekend!
