ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Although the keys and seats have not yet completely cooled since our morning-night session today, we have no choice but to continue our work. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Drago Koren, Dr Mitja Slavinec, mag. Franc Žnidaršič and Miro Friday until 11:00. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the bill on records in the field of work and social security. The total time of the debate is 1 hour and 51 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Among us, I welcome the representative of the Government, Mrs Cotman, the Secretary of State, and I also invite her to the floor for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! The collection, storage and use of data in the field of work, labour relations and social security is currently regulated in the Republic of Slovenia in the existing labour registering law, in the social security laws and in the regulations governing public records and registers. Therefore, a new law on labour and social security records is urgently needed to determine the management, functioning and interconnection of public records in this area. It will establish safeguards to prevent abuses, data manipulation and infringements of information privacy rights. It will ensure easy, fast, quality and valuable access for citizens to public administration information and services. The draft law regulates the rights and duties of record managers in the field of labour and social security with regard to the transmission and acquisition of data, the right of access to individual data and data protection. The draft law puts in place existing activities concerning the integration of information systems within E-Government projects and will therefore have no financial implications in itself. The deadline for issuing sub-legislative rules allowing individual monitoring of data from labour costs records is linked to the existing provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The deadline for the issue of sub-legislative rules allowing monitoring of data from other records maintained by employers shall be determined by assessing the necessary time required to meet the needs of all users in terms of the connectivity of the records to be collected in one place, for example with the employer. As such, it must be comparable. However, the definitions of the same data must be mutually coordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, young visitors and visitors have joined us on the Tribunal, which I welcome very much in the Slovenian Parliament. There's usually more of us. But given that we finished the meeting at one o’clock in the morning, she may be more vindictive in the middle of an empty hall. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I therefore ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. The legal body concerned was discussed at the 13th ordinary meeting on 10.3.2006. A representative of the proposer as well as a representative of the legislative and legal service participated in the work of the committee. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council for Social Activities and the position of the Economic Social Council, which in principle supported the proposal of the Law, but some of the social partners also had specific comments on the proposal of the law, in particular with regard to Article 20 and Article 21 of the Law. The unions did not agree that the organizer of the sentence was obliged to forward a decision on the beginning of the sentence before the beginning of the sentence, nor could the name of the natural person organising the sentence be mentioned, but rather the name of the union. The legislative and legal service has examined the law in question, examined the bill in terms of compliance with the Constitution under the legal system and also made specific comments to a number of articles to the bill. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the proposal for the provisions of paragraphs 2 to 7 of Article 7 relating to most of the records listed in Article 6 of the provisions concerning the definition of the basis for their establishment and management only refers to the sectoral laws in which these records are already regulated. However, the first paragraph of this Article and the subsequent provisions of the draft law show that the provisions of this Act are intended to provide a basis for the establishment of certain records in the field of labour and that the management of which is intended to be the duty of employers. From this point of view, it would point out in the title and general provisions of the draft law that the area of keeping records in the field of labour and social security in this proposal should be fully regulated and that the proposed regulation should not be re-examined in its entirety. Among other things, the legislative and legal service also recalls the deadlines in Articles 26 and 27, which it considers should be re-examined. In view of the broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the four coalition groups have also prepared a number of amendments for discussion and decision by the Committee. The discussion focused on Articles 14, 17 and 19 and the related record-keeping of employees, on labour costs and on the use of working time. The question was raised as to whether the proposal for a law was in line with the recently adopted law on the protection of archival material and documentary material and what the cost-sharing should be in the future and thus the financial consequences of this law. As mentioned above, the Committee, in its debate and decision-making on a number of amendments submitted, has adopted plenty of its amendments, which are incorporated into the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good morning to me, too. I wish a successful day for all, although it is clear to us that successful days are not the natural consequence of sleepless nights, such as the necessity of working obligations following what hour of sleep. Today, too, we will talk about important laws. We'll make important decisions. Two of these are linked to individual records. We're talking about the first law now. The law on labour and social security records and the meaning of this law are certainly related to the fact that there is virtually no Slovenian or Slovenian woman who might not be affected. That's what it's all about. So we'll talk twice about the records. However, all these records are related, not only within this law, which we are now talking about, but also other records, which we will talk about an hour or two later. The motioner considers that this is explicitly stated in the documents that the records are relatively poorly regulated in our country, so that it is necessary to change and use even the word or mark of confusion that governs these areas. This confusion, of course, can also be a good place to play rights, obligations and so on. That's what he wants to fix. That's what he wants to prevent. The DeSUS Group is also prepared to assist in this by contributing to its votes. While we do not think that the law, as some believe, is merely a technical nature, that it merely regulates how we quickly collect data with modern information technologies and prevent their overlap or transfers that overlap or communicate from doing so. The law is certainly also of substantive importance, as it is, in fact, a system of records that lays the groundwork for decisions on human rights. And that's why we think we need proper attention. For we decide the life interests of individuals as well as of businesses. We believe that in time we will be able to see that the law is in the interest of citizens and citizens, that it is in the interests of businesses, that it is also in the interest of the administrative authorities, who face the issue mentioned in this law every day. We support this law primarily because we feel that it actually allows more complete records, more comprehensive records, to make these records transparent, allows better prevention of abuse in individual areas. In particular, as regards social transfers and payment of contributions to various cash registers. It also allows purely everyday or reduces the daily needs of individuals to advertise with officials and knock on their doors. In short, it also allows for a reduction in administration. In preparation for the signing of the coalition treaty, this was one of the more important topics we have considered. It is also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty so that we can now say that we also want to contribute to preventing or encouraging the work of people who would be even better rewarded with different forms of social transfers than the efforts at individual jobs. We believe that it is also good because it gives local communities opportunities to look into different databases. Probably even in those in which we have not now, since local communities also decide on individual social ratings, but do not have adequate data if the beneficiary does not provide them. And in this way, the abuse of individual rights could also occur. It's going to be - domain - now it's blocked. The Group of Members will support the law, despite the fact that some of our ambitions have not been adopted. The gold ones did not talk about the records of the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, that is, the reference to these reasons when the job seeker is also shown as a negative predisposition. We believe it is also good to support the proposed amendments, including those that shorten the deadline for abuses to continue and shorten the deadline for the preparation of sub-laws for one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	The next is Mrs Possonec, who will present the position of the Hungarian national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! With regard to the supplementary proposal of the Labour and Social Security Records Act, I make the following comments: I believe that the draft law does not clearly define whether it may even be omitted whether it is an entrepreneur, an individual who is an operator and pays his own taxes, a record manager in such a way that he must keep the records referred to in points (a), (b), (c), and (c) and (c) of Article 6 of this Act. I am of the opinion that this should be defined within the framework of the provisions of the second Article. Definitions as this would avoid unnecessary later complications. Furthermore, the provisions of Article 13 of the Staff Regulations require that the employer, the registry manager, keep the data on the worker in the record, including information on whether the worker has performed additional work with the other employer. The second point of Article 14 imposes on the worker the responsibility to report any changes to the employer, even if he is doing additional work with another employer. I believe that it is necessary to define in the legal provisions the obligation of the record manager to inform the employee of this obligation, since otherwise there may be a shift from the employee to the employer. This is why it is difficult to expect every employee to be thoroughly familiar with all the legal provisions. The next question that I am asked about Article 13 is: How is it that an employer, a record manager, has to keep only the data, or does an employee perform additional work with another employer? What if he does extra work as s.p.? So I think we should keep track of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Your Honor! The collection, storage and use of data in the field of work, labour relations and social security in the Republic of Slovenia is now regulated by the Labour Records Act, the National Social Security Act and the regulations governing public records and registers. Since the Labour Records Act was adopted in the former Yugoslavia and has never been amended, there is in practice a discrepancy with other legislation. The Government has therefore drawn up a new law on labour and social security records, which will regulate the rights and duties of record managers in the field of labour and social security with regard to the transmission and acquisition of data, the right to access individual data and data protection. The proposal for a law on labour and social security records is a technical law and should allow for the full integration of all public records in the field of labour and social security in such a way as to enable an individual to exercise his or her rights with any body included in this system of records without having to attach documents to it or to communicate information already available to any other State authority or public institution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the bill as the law will ensure easy, fast, quality and cheap access to information and services of public law and public data which are not specifically protected and intended for the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Next, I invite you to the word magi. Spending on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the section 'objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill', the bill states that the law in the form presented allows the implementation of measure 38, which is foreseen by economic and social reforms. Since the proposal is already being incorporated into existing activities concerning the integration of information systems, it will not in itself have any new financial implications. Therefore, it will not be necessary to look at this measure from this point of view and what it says. The aim is to establish a single central register of all rights. This is a solution that is useful for administrative needs in decision-making and analytical needs. The measure is therefore solely intended to facilitate the decision-making of the government, the authorities and only in its effects: simpler procedure, de-de-barcation, more complete decision-making data and less abuse still from the government's point of view, necessary legal changes, a new law on conditions and procedures for the enforcement of rights from public funds. The holder is as we see it, only the open questions - and this is where it begins - and the preparation of a specific central registry project, which will foresee the time dynamics of the establishment and interconnection of information systems and the necessary resources to establish the central record and some of the missing information systems and to connect them. So, here's a talk about the necessary financial resources that the proposer can't say anything about in the bill. We note, therefore, that the drafter of the law and the government reform document are mixed in the assessment of the projected financial commitments. However, it is important for the Group of Social Democrats to open up an opportunity for an individual to look into the data on how his employer has paid contributions from which he can exercise his rights. For we have forgotten, for example, not only from the economy, but also from the public sector, when contributions were not paid and this was known on the individual's right to pay the pension. That's why we think marriage is necessary. Although some questions remain open. Let me count them. We cannot overlook that in just three quarters the law has been supplemented and amended on the home working body by the substantive amendments we have only received at the meeting and have been very modest or merely formally reasoned. We cannot overlook that compliance with other recently adopted laws has not been implemented. Some comments from the legislative and legal service have passed the motions and we therefore point out in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats that the comments are not sufficiently taken into account. This, however, has become a general practice in law. But look at the comments of the legislative and legal services on the complementary proposal. It is still one quarter of the articles in the proposed law to note the substantive comments of the legislative and legal service. In particular, we note the letter from the information officer saying that he has general, conceptual comments on the law because he specifically points to Article 4 of the Act, which has been supplemented by the home labour body. However, our support for the law will depend on the answer to the question whether the non-conformity or even the unconstitutionality of the proposed solution is over. For it cannot be overlooked that there is now some authority on the information officer that is indeed transferred, but the responsibilities are not on the minister, but it is - we warn - for sensitive databases, for the use of data for other purposes than they have been selected. Therefore, the availability of personal data should be safeguarded. We have tabled two amendments to the bill, which shorten our deadlines for the creation of records, which is primarily for the benefit of citizens and citizens. That is why we expect you to support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of New Slovenia, he will speak mag. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members! All of us who have ever exercised any right that belongs to us under the applicable labour and social security laws have always been disheartened by the much-spent valuable time to meet the various forms and to enter such data that we were convinced already existed in the records of an individual citizen being run by the State. We are convinced that the use or integration of data already collected in a record in one field of operation of the country could make it possible for citizens to make it significantly easier to exercise their rights in all other areas of operation of the country. Individual collections often refer to each other, thus providing identical data. In this way, two flies would be killed at one stroke, the interconnectivity of different databases could be a major rationalisation of the state administration and citizens could settle their affairs in one place without unnecessary movement from the window to the window of a public official. There are also many instances of social rights abuses due to the lack of linkage between the various records. Therefore, in New Slovenia we welcome the government's decision to approach this complex problem. The Labour and Social Security Records Act will clarify all the fundamental and procedural aspects of the management, operation and integration of public records in these areas. At the same time, the law will establish safeguards to prevent data abuse and manipulation and to violate privacy rights. The law regulates the source records of data on employed persons, on insured persons, on contributors and on beneficiaries of social security rights. It also regulates the integration of the original records between each other and with public registers and their use in the production of the records. The decision on social transfers will allow for the introduction of the concept of social transfer decision-making under the principle of one entry point. Article 11 of the Act provides that the EMSO and the tax number for natural persons, as well as the employer's tax and mother's number from the business register of Slovenia, will be used as a trade mark for legal persons. Any step in which any right is exercised should thus have access to all the information which is kept by public records of the beneficiary and which they need for their work at some point. The law was coordinated in the Economic and Social Council and the amendments adopted by the Committee followed this agreement. In New Slovenia, we will support the Labour and Social Security Records Act. I'm afraid I can't support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I once again invite Mr Brenčič to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Labour and social security records are still regulated on the basis of a law adopted in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, as such, has not been implemented in accordance with the current requirements and needs of any changes and is increasingly inconsistent with other public regulations in this area, such as the Central Population Register Act and so on. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposaler's intention to establish a full link between all public records in the field of labour and social security in a way that will allow an individual to exercise his or her rights in any body included in the system of records without having to contribute or communicate data to it, which is already available to any other public authority or other public institution. Such an approach will enable an individual to access information quickly and easily and will bring public administration services closer to both individuals and business facilities. To this end, also through the proposal of this Act, administrative registries and other databases of public administration shall be linked to a system that allows for an optimum relationship between the existence, safety and speed of access to documents or data on the necessary personal data protection mechanisms in public administration procedures. The proposal for this law also essentially follows the measures of economic and social reform in the area of the need to establish a central register of rights financed from public funds. This also establishes effective control and prevents abuses, which we consider to be one of the fundamental substantive components of this bill. With the introduction of the principle of data collection from official registers and official records, staff members will have the possibility of e-examination or request them in all the necessary registers in order to resolve administrative procedures. This will be able to improve legal procedures in a qualitative manner and make the procedure much more transparent and up-to-date. In doing so, I would like to say that it is good, given the experience of a few years ago, that even after the law has been amended, the proposer listens to the arguments arising from the legislative and legal opinion on the amended proposal of the law. It is good if the complementary proposal is supplemented on this basis. It follows from practice that the law is much more systematicly consistent in implementation. This time I'd say it didn't work out. We expect that the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the complementary proposals for documents will be given full attention in the future. The parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. As a last resort, I invite Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. If we are based on the basic purpose or objectives of the Labour and Social Security Records Act, it is in fact possible to link all public records in the field of work and social security, in fact, it is good to support the law, which is not least a step closer to a more transparent policy in this area. Finally, it is also in the interest and benefit of citizens and citizens, as well as of the administrative authorities. The fact is that we were recently placed in a situation where people were unwittingly injured because of inadequate or inadequate records. Last May, for the first time and then at the 8th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we reminded the Slovenian National Party of the need to establish appropriate records of the contributions paid and the dependency of the insurance period on those contributions. That's when we discussed the novelty of the law on pension and disability insurance. The fact is that the Act provides that periods of insurance shall be considered during the insurance period only if the contributions are paid for. Some employers took advantage of the marriage gap. As the records were not established, the State also raised its hands and unjustifiably transferred the blame to the insurance company. PPIZ is the body which should have established records of contributions paid since 2003. However, the institution itself, therefore, does not have the power to control the payment of contributions under the current regime. Although it would be difficult to accept the Government's explanation that the current social security regime, including supervision, would be appropriate because of this, which was also quite resounding in the public eye. Because the fact is, the insurance companies were underprivileged. And not just deprived. They were injured. However, I am pleased that the Government has included this subject in the framework of this law, which we are considering today, which undoubtedly means greater protection or enforcement of workers' rights with regard to the insurance age. The way the law is prepared, I wouldn't even comment. This is, in fact, the comments of the legislative and legal services and the amendments. The amendment was almost every article. Today, however, we may take advantage of the opportunity to respond to certain uncertainties that still exist. The government claims - today we have already heard - that the law will have no financial implications. All right. And thank God if we are able to establish a new project in our country or introduce new information technology without cost. Members were not given a specific response by the government representative on the working body because, as it was obvious, the government representative does not know the legislation directly linked to this law, the law establishing employment records and social security. We've already heard today that it's a law about archives that you don't want to be associated with today's law. Today, by a government representative, the SDS representative, we have heard that this is a technical law. I would add that this is a marriage with an important content. Finally, the information officer also made comments on the content of this Act. [[Quote]] : "The purpose of processing personal data must be set out in the law every time. And that's for each personal dataset separately." Such a wide-ranging project of records is questioning the disclosure of sensitive personal data for a completely different purpose. In short, there remains ambiguity about the appropriate personal data protection. And let me point out another important issue that we are missing in the Slovenian National Party when we are talking about the establishment of registers in the area of social security. What we miss is a register of crimes related to business. It's a crime of sexual violence. That's what the government let go of. This is what we miss in this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on two articles and two amendments. You got the list on March 28th. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mag. Tremendous, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The amendment we have tabled relates only to the shortening of the time limit, which is for the Minister responsible for the work issuing the regulation referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1, to be provided with a deadline after the amended proposal on 1 January 2008. Given that the project we are talking about establishing uniform records is not from today or from this mandate, but that the establishment of a single register for the recording of social transfers and other data belonging to the working area of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is drawn from the previous mandate. However, we believe that the preparatory work is so much done that the deadline could be shorter. In particular, because there are other deadlines, I refer to Article 27, with the exception of that in the second paragraph, for which, with the next amendment, the deadline is also reduced, on 1 January 2007. Of course, our amendment was only about laying hands. However, it is probably an open question whether, in the light of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, a further amendment should nevertheless be considered in relation to the amended bill on records. In view of the fact that the legislative and legal service points out that this article applies only in relation to Article 3 and the first paragraph to the competent Minister of Labour. Other ministers are also competent and thus this Article is too narrowly laid down and is not completely exhausted from the title of this Article. In particular, I would like to point out that, in the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members, I have also mentioned the opinion transmitted by the Information Commissioner, which also refers to this Article 3. I am aware that we have only tabled an amendment for shortening the deadline, not for other things. But we believe that it is nine months, a three-quarter year, but a long enough period for the preparation of a sub-law to which Article 26 refers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There's a mag in the word, too. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The methodology, standards and coders and the classifications by which the data are kept in records will be determined in accordance with this proposal of the law by the Ministers for the area to which they are assigned. And I think it will take more time to coordinate this than is proposed in the amendment. Because I think it is very important, in terms of the connectivity of records, that data is collected in one place to meet the needs of all users, because in some cases individual coders can define or understand the same data in a different way. The controllers of individual records have already highlighted the issue of mutual exchange and comparability of data in the very beginning of the proposal of this Act. They are aware of this problem and therefore this deadline is longer. However, I am sure that the government will make an effort and that if this deadline is given, the deadline will be reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Master's degree in Purgatory, would you like a replica? Yeah, 'cause the secretary of state signed up in the middle, and I'd give her my word first, and then you. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dates, why are they fixed until 1 January 2008? Because they're tied to two other marriages. For example, monitoring data on labour costs individually. According to the taxpayer, they do not yet exist and are bound by two laws. This is the Tax Procedure Act, which provides that the records must be harmonised by 1 January 2010 at the latest for the time limit. And the second law is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for the establishment of records by 2008 at the latest. Therefore, we have set a deadline precisely for these two laws, which provide for the regulation of the records for 2008. With regard to the concept, as Mr Capuder had previously mentioned, we have already encountered a problem with different interpretations of the same concept when it comes to the creation of the law by various data controllers. If I know about the explanation, let's say I explain the case of education. Education is interpreted differently by different operators. For example, the Employment Service, the Bureau of Statistics, the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. Some have a profession, others have a degree in education, professional qualifications. All of this also needs to be regulated in legislation, which is irregular and extends to other areas. Thus, there is now a law on higher education, which will also regulate levels of education. In fact, legislation must be adopted in this area in order to have uniform concepts. This is just one of the cases where problems arose with regard to the concept of what each classification means in different record managers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm aware there's probably a lot of loose ends. Since you have mentioned the law on higher education, Madam Secretary of State, I must say that I am also not satisfied that the students enrolled in the first year of the Bologna Study do not know what address they will receive at the end of their studies, which is unacceptable to the place. Also in the context of the proposal for a law on higher education, by the way, last August I addressed a question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology on how to address it with new addresses. And he comforted me that this fall would be arranged. The fact that there is still no agreement between higher education programme providers is also a well-known fact. What am I trying to say? If we are working to regulate an area in such a way as to specifically highlight the good effects on service users, then it is possible to make the law more prudently a few months later, and then to bring the implementation closer, not to distance, given that we will be affected by a number of changes on 1 January 2007, then also because of the new financial perspective, due to the possibility of drawing on funds. This was also one of the purposes of establishing a single register, in order to facilitate the identification of social transfers, etc. For all these reasons, we have proposed a shorter deadline, because we believe that in the pre-legislative procedure, some things concerning methodologies, standards, coders, classifications could be agreed between all those who will have to do this much earlier. However, 9 months are ahead of us until 1 January 2007. And that's what I think it's moving away from. Finally, someone will say that we will be preparing too intensively for the presidency at that time, but we have not been able to deal with these things and our deadline will be extended again. I just think that it is right that the hands placed, if we refer to the beneficial effects that are seen both from the point of view of public finances and those that are perceived from the point of view of the users of these services, that these hands should only be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I, too, would join in supporting this amendment, which speaks of shortening deadlines. I myself have highlighted one important issue that has gone primarily to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens, or workers and workers. The point is that last year I posed a question to the relevant minister and then at the meeting, when we adopted the law, highlighted the subject and got it, I will say, according to my assessment, then inappropriate answers. Let me quote just one. In fact, the Government of January has not yet had all the data and therefore has not been able to take account of all the changes envisaged. I'm talking about last January's year. In the fall, the government is expected to prepare a new supplement, including new calculations. I assume it was a marriage or a novelty of the Disability and Retirement Insurance Act. That's my guess, because I don't actually have an exact answer. As I have already said, the problem is the creation of appropriate records of contributions paid and the dependence of the insurance period on these contributions. The fact is, workers and workers were injured. As these relevant records are not available because they do not have an insight into the paid contributions paid by employers and because, finally, the PSIZ does not have any insight into these matters. And allow me, in response from the Ministry, an explanation was given that the cases were to be implemented by 1.1.2010 at the latest. If we are talking today in this law about some positive effects, it would certainly be useful to listen to this amendment and actually shorten the deadline. Not in 2008 or on 1.1.2010, but actually in 2007. Last but not least, we are talking about a law that is supposed to have positive effects not only on the state, the state administration, but first of all, at least that's what I understand, on citizens and citizens. If this is a matter of clear injury to workers and I believe that you, the distinguished Secretary of State, are also aware of this problem, because it was, the matter was then not only published in this Parliament but also in the media, then it would be really reasonable to reduce the deadline and take into account in the first place the benefits of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Look, when we talk about the thermal problem, I think it's right to look at when this original sin came about, to lose records of contributions paid to pension insurance. We, myself, remember this well because I did this work myself, at the time of the existence of SDK we were unable to pay the salaries if we did not attach also the Virmans, the so-called Virans, to pay the contributions that the former SDK automatically cashed. And thus a guarantee was given that the contributions were paid in an exact manner. So the original sin came about when we said we didn't need SDK anymore. That's when the anarchy started in this area. Of course, it took some time for those most resourceful to find this option so that they could avoid paying contributions to employees for pension and disability insurance, and they used it with joy and adjective, which is very wrong. I fully understand the people who were before they retired, and when they came to the pension office, they found that their contributions were not paid for. I think it was a shock to them. And I think it was the country's fault that it even happened and it happened. We haven't found that out today, we've found that a long time ago. I myself recall that at one of the meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, this problem was exposed. But this was somewhere at the beginning of our term, in the spring of 2005. I must say that we have also drawn attention to this problem on this committee, and I think that the structures have fallen apart a little at the time. I was deeply amazed that in today's technology, which we have at our disposal - clearly it costs, but the options are available - we are talking for so long about how we are going to introduce this record. But it is, and I must also admit that things are not so easy to say, but now we will cut our hands by one or two years. The introduction of these records is a process and this process should have begun before we have abolished the so-called SDK. And if this process were to start then, I'm sure we wouldn't be talking about this problem today, but I would be completely saved. In today's situation, we are forced to listen to the government's proposal and the real deadlines they set. I don't think it makes any sense for me to be evaluated here now whether it takes one year less for the project. I'm sure those who talked about this project put up real hands. And even if we accept the shortening of these deadlines today, I am sure that the implementation will be nothing sooner than it is set out there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I will read who has so far applied for the word that you will have a better idea: Mr Moge, Mr Brenčič, Mr Rezman and Dr Gantar. So, Mr. Mogue, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the area of labour records is one of the key indicators of what we can and cannot do, even now that we are integrated into the European Union. It seems to me that not the National Assembly, nor the government, at least as far as high-educational personnel are concerned, have done what they should. One of the biggest education reforms is now the Bologna Process. The implementation of the Bologna Process would first require the adoption of programmes. And just adopted programmes would then be the basis for the implementation of this process. For these programmes, however, it is the national assembly that blocks the adoption of such programmes. By preparing the Higher Education Committee at its December session for decision in the National Assembly, the Law on Titles and Titles in Higher Education has already been adopted. Because a program without someone finishing the program, what kind of name they get, is not complicated. However, you have blocked the position of Members to discuss this law in the National Assembly and have done so by not putting the tools into the hands of the Senate of the College or the Higher Schools in order to carry out this process. I myself wrote to the President of the National Assembly that he should lay down this law in order to enable universities to monitor their programmes. But it happened, the dogs barking, the caravan moves on. Once again, the Peace of Soul College did not put this law into session. But that's what happened. I went to the President of the National Assembly myself, and the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Tuckati, gave me his word that we would discuss this at the April session. The law is ready. Now he's on the side of the government. The government was scrambling and for a long time did not draw up a complete legislation to regulate this area. This is for these 100,000 people who have current titles and whose current titles should be translated into titles after the Bologna Process. This marriage, as far as I can see, is in preparation. It's a college law. I call on the government of this city to do so as soon as possible. These solutions, which are in this law in order for those who have university education under the old law to receive adequate qualifications in order to be able to work in the areas of the second degree, this is a Master's degree. Those who now have Master's degree, in the field of Ph.D. and so on. I expect the government and the government representatives to resolve this problem as soon as possible. Also because we will not deprive our citizens of their jobs in other EU countries. I think there is good legislation in specific areas. Education is certainly one of the necessary conditions for the performance of work. That legislation is necessary to be adopted as soon as possible. And then this legislation will only allow for good records in the field of work. Since we are in the market economy, because we are under pressure every day, who will be better, who will be more successful, I would also expect the National Assembly and the government to speed up this process of adopting these two laws as soon as possible. When this is done, I hope that it will be somewhere by summer, and I expect that the government will also intensify this process in its areas. That's why it seems to me that this amendment, which was advocated by the MP, is a mag. Majda Potrat, such an amendment that would be worthy of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, another group of young visitors and visitors have joined us on the Tribunal, which I welcome very much in the Slovenian Parliament. We are in the middle of addressing the amendments to the proposal for a law on labour and social security records. So you'll know what's going on here. It's Mr. Brenčič's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much. This law, which we are discussing, is needed primarily because of its fundamental mission, namely the establishment of a central register of rights financed from public funds. And that's not just the rights. The mandatory obligation of those under this Title can also be finally effectively monitored and the abuse can be deterred. However, if we look at what the list of records referred to in Article 6 is on the basis of which the Minister referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 1 should prescribe methodologies and so on, then if we think as a government with economic and social reforms seriously, I almost do not understand why we have set such a long time to collect these partial points where different records are collected in the central register. I think it must be the interest of the government here to shorten this deadline, because it is a fundamental mission that will enable effective control to be established. If we just take, say, a health care institution and the extent of the unpaid obligations to the insured, then it should be the government's interest to do everything we can to shorten this deadline, so that we have the record of this establishment in the shortest possible time. I think it would be good to think about it, maybe the 1 January 2008 deadline is really too long, but I'm afraid that 1 January 2007 is really too short, but 1.1.2008 seems too long for the government to ask itself very seriously about the purpose of shortening this deadline, which is, for the very purpose of the law, even in my opinion, necessary. But I don't know if this is possible within this period, as the amendment suggests. You must take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. When we represented the position of the DeSUS Group, we expressed our support for this law, including our willingness to support the amendments presented. I see no valid reason not to accept this amendment. I see that the other, most of the Members and Members who have spoken so far support this and I believe that they could also give their support to the general, pardon, secretary of state, because they have also failed to state in their performance something that would prevent the shortening of this proposed deadline. Why? Because, in fact, the central records are just a means for us to be able to implement what we have set ourselves. We want to exercise control, we want to prevent abuses by individuals or businesses, and in order to do so, the government should do its best, it is its programme, it is our joint programme in the coalition treaty, even so written down, and everything has to be done to protect people from these abuses. Since it was not predicted that this could not be achieved by 1.1.2007, it was postponed only if the government had chosen another suitable deadline. Some believe that this appropriateness is not the most appropriate, I propose that we support this amendment, unless the Secretary of State has any other valid reasons and indisputable arguments and evidence that it is impossible to do so by 1.1.2007, otherwise I think that we should do everything we can to shorten the deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Will you wait, do we have some more debaters or in between? Okay, then Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	I would say that we have not prepared our views on this marriage, but we have discussed it much. Of course, I will talk mainly about this amendment and about some of the things that have been said here. First of all, this process of linking records started a long time ago, or today this law was not on the table. Another time. The process of linking records is in the substantive, technical, technological sense a relatively demanding process, it would not go too far, but it should be borne in mind that the cumulative effects of integration are here. However, they can be just as modern, as they can be fatal if the records are poor, if the records can be linked incorrectly and if this information system is not working as it needs to be. Of course, I am substantively in favour of this amendment and would like to support it, but provided that the government tells us how long it is technically and substantively capable of carrying out this project. Is she capable of taking him out a year earlier or not? If it is not actually capable, then perhaps this is not appropriate for the opposition of the Member. Then I wouldn't insist on taking him out at this time, because it's just gonna be a problem. So much for that. It is, however, necessary to know that the process can be a little more complex and that it is extremely important that these are not only related but are related to updated records. It's a condition. Nevertheless, we had a few comments in the LDS, but we gave up writing the amendments because nothing helped, because nothing had ever been adopted so far, and we had never done this homework. What he has missed out on the law is, in my opinion, questionable, the role of the EMSO as a single identifier. Simply put, the EMHO as an identifier says too much, says day, year and month of birth, says gender and knows how many about newborns each day, based on this EMŠA someone who would like to do so will relatively quickly identify you. I know that the former director of the Bureau of Statistics will disagree with me, but there would be a lot more, but the tax number would be significantly better and more useful general identifier, as it also covers those who do not have EMŠA and are included in the system and are tax residents in Slovenia. With these technical, substantive issues, we did not feel that it was important to deal with them because it would be a waste of time and effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr Horvat Joseph.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I believe that the amendment to this Article 26 is well-intentioned, but if I put myself in the role of the contractor of this law or of this project, then I would not have sworn that I would have implemented the project by 1.1.2007. Those of us who have ever dealt with writing apps know what it means to integrate information islands. I say that we have a lot of quality information islands in the country today, and the information island is very good for itself. When these islands need to be integrated into some continent, then the problem is. There's only one case I'll tell you. We have different methodologies in individual information islands, we have different coders, and it has to be taken into account for single coders, for uniform standards, for uniform methodologies, and we have already lost, I say, at least half a year. However, this project is extremely important. I argue that if an entity does not have a proper integrated information system, such an undertaking is sentenced to stagnation or to any worse scenario. And if the state doesn't have an integrated information system, then it's not good. I would rather sign that this project should be implemented by 1.1.2008 and that it will be really implemented by then, and we will all gain a lot from this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Master's degree in Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you. If I have to speak well with this amendment, then I would like to point out once again that the projected integration of the information islands has already begun in the previous mandate, and this is a project that has been conceived and which was, not least, given the interpretation against the current government in the previous term, and I have followed some of these measures, which were then, so that nothing has been done, is impossible to say. But it is a question of whether we want to consider or not what has been done. I very much respect the opinion of respected Dr Gantar, who also had to come to a very good knowledge of the information society during his previous term of office, but if I come from the point of view of the user of a service, it is essential that the data be collected only to the user. When an individual is able to calculate his pension, he finds that the institution has not paid him any contributions, and I believe that this is a shock and this has not yet been established in the spring of last year. This was a problem that we have already faced in the previous term. The Ombudsman also drew attention to this problem. From this point of view, I am in favour of this amendment and I am in favour of this amendment from the perspective of the priorities put forward. That's crucial to me. I believe that it takes time to need a lot of energy, a lot of negotiation, but first and foremost, there are priorities when we decide what we will give priority to our work. And I would expect, given what was said when this law was passed or when this law was interpreted, that priority was number one. Therefore, the proposed shorter deadline. Thank you. I'm sorry. I just wanted to say one more thing. I hope you don't fool me because I'm going to go after the whole 26th. I reiterate that our amendment only touches on shortening the deadline set for the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In addition to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Article 26 should also set the deadlines for all other competent ministers referred to in Article 3. And if we see paragraphs 3 and 26 in conjunction, we should also ask ourselves what this means and how we will proceed in the following way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The debate has long since escaped and the scope of Article 26 and the amendment, so there is no need to disappoint you. Mr Gulic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! This law must be adopted in some way, because it protects citizens from employers. On the other hand, it provides the country with a larger record. However, something is wrong, i.e. it does not protect citizens from the state and officials. Again, in fact, this debate shows that everything is geared towards the comfort of the country. It's about kids, too. Everything can be done, but it's complicated. That's right. To unify all records, but not in a way that somehow unifys them. The other problem, of course, is that there is no record of record entry being recorded anywhere. Indeed, somewhere in the Bible it says briefly that it must be justified and that you must have some reason to do so. But I still want to know how I, as a citizen, will know who's been looking through my records. It's very personal data, it'll be collected from different sources. Why is he going in there? What's he gonna do with them? And I don't have this mechanism as a citizen. And that should be arranged. She warned me that this matter was missing. Law enforcement has talked a lot about this. Information officer, too, the Ombudsman. A type of significant warning factor. Again, we have a law that has so many comments before us, and there are some concerns about one quarter of the articles. Everything is drawn to a distant future. So this is the time when uniform records will be established, who will have access to this data. Now here we go again, the bottom line is that people will somehow be protected to see whether employers are actually paying money, everything else is under another authority, the police system is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss this amendment, if not, I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State so that we can speak at the end? No more. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	I would point out once again that when setting deadlines, we have been bound by existing legislation that sets the time limits in individual laws when certain records have to be adopted. With regard to Mr Gulic, the competence of the information officer, I must point out that we have taken into account all the comments made by the information officer in these laws and all the information is protected because it is necessary to inform the information officer beforehand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 26 and the current amendment and put to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you. This amendment is the same tendency - to shorten the deadline. We have aligned this deadline with other prescribed deadlines or expected in Article 27, but in this case the explanation is very focused on the area of labour costs records. We believe that this area is extremely sensitive, that the data was collected, but was not accessible to the individual, that he could not know how the employer paid. I particularly point out that there are known cases where even public institutions, even schools, did not pay social security contributions and it was only when an individual had his pension calculated and determined which period for the most favourable income, that was not paid, which should have been settled. Therefore, we believe that the almost two-year deadline for issuing a sub-legislative regulation that would allow monitoring of data from the labour cost register is absolutely too long. Therefore, we believe that the competent minister, in this case the Minister of Finance, should issue that regulation by 1 January 2007. And we believe that there really can be no such shame in the difficulty of this sub-law that we should wait until 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. Mag. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. When the Secretary of State called on the first amendment, she mentioned that certain deadlines were bound by two laws, namely the Tax Procedure Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which set some other deadlines. And one of the first deadlines is laid down in Article 228 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides that Durs shall establish and maintain a record of the contributions paid by payers or salaries for each insured by 2008. This first deadline is 2008 and is also the deadline for the drafting of this sub-law because it is planned, as planned in the draft law. And we will not support this amendment in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th agenda or at the latest at 19:00 and 35 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State for his cooperation. And we're moving on to 4. On the other hand, a bill on the registration of immovable property is being tabled. Between us, I welcome Mr Seliškar, Director of Geodetic Administration and also the Secretary of State, who is likely to join in in a minute, mag. Starman. The total time for discussion is 2 hours and 50 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative, Mag. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! The new Real Estate Registration Act introduces simplifications, additions and amendments that create conditions for more efficient and quality data collection and management and for greater integration of public records. The amendments proposed so far will increase the legal security of owners while also establishing the powers of the state and local communities to ensure better quality of records. The proposed real estate registration law thus exposes and provides conditions for a quality and multi-purpose real estate recording system. We all know that regulated, accurate, up-to-date real estate data are important for both the individual and the public authorities. Multi-purpose records and real estate systems also allow for objective design and management of social, spatial, land, tax and housing policies and other interventions into space. Easily and rapidly accessible data enable better decision-making in planning and design and, above all, provide individuals with a level of safety in real estate transport and in the protection of property rights. In Slovenia, various activities have been taking place over the last few years to provide complete and quality real estate records. New procedures are established and already established and are known at the technological, substantive and organisational levels that require more appropriate regulatory arrangements, as it will only be possible to make optimal use of all the advantages of new knowledge. The basic objective of the law is to establish a quality real estate recording system. The proposal for a law in line with modern international trends and directions for the creation of multi-purpose real estate data and the creation of a real estate system, which, in addition to traditional functions, in particular ownership and taxation, will provide a basis for the wide use of data for various purposes. With the proposed real estate registration law, we want to make it easier in particular to record new or modified real estate data, to provide complete and up-to-date data on all properties, to improve the quality of data we already have and new, to ensure as easily and as quickly as possible access to data, in accordance with the modern principle of access to public information. The proposed arrangement simplifies the procedures for recording real estate data. By simplifying the procedures for recording data on real estate or change, we have sought to find as simple and quick a solution as possible, while ensuring the full legal security of property owners. In 2000, a cadastral building was introduced by the Real Estate, State Border and Spatial Units Registration Act, which allows for the recording of building components, namely buildings and floors or other parts of buildings. Most of the flats on the floor property are already registered in the cadastral of buildings because of the interest of the owners of the apartments. In order to provide information on all buildings, the new law provides for the so-called decomposition of data on all buildings and parts of buildings throughout the country. A single project will thus verify, supplement and improve data on the entire building fund in Slovenia. Data will be distributed for 1.6 million buildings and parts of buildings. In order to introduce a mass property valuation system and provide data for statistical purposes, additional information will be collected for all buildings and parts of buildings listed in the law. This is a project that will not only have one meaning, but based on such up-to-date and complete data, the system will be able to upgrade. The maintenance of the earth cadastre and the cadastra of buildings is gradual and uneven to include the parties in all stages of the procedure. The rules governing the management of those records shall not necessarily allow for the recording of the actual situation at the same time. Therefore, the proposed registration law introduces a new register, the so-called real estate register, which will allow for easier recording of real estate data under official responsibility and the rules of the profession. The establishment of a real estate register provides for the possibility of recording the actual situation of all real estate data. The Real Estate Register shall be a public record and shall be established at the same time as a multi-purpose open system allowing for interconnection with other databases or allowing different users to supplement its multi-purposeness in accordance with their respective regulations in order to determine additional information relating to these real estates. All users will be provided with free access to the data. However, another way of using the data will be enabled at minimum costs, which will partially cover management costs and provide access to data. The proposal for a new real estate registration law constitutes the first step in the creation of a single real estate system, which will cover the recording of real-law property rights, property values and the use of real estate in both institutional and accounting terms and in terms of the financing of the real estate system and support for the real estate market. The bill for this brings news and is therefore a new law in this area. The definition of real estate is summed up by the definition of a real-law code, while maintaining the already established definition of land and what the relevant constituents of land are, such as now in the earth's cadastra and the cadastral of buildings. There is a clearer link between the current land book systems, the earth cadastre and the cadastre of buildings, and new data is being introduced to enable the introduction of a mass property valuation system and the introduction of a new property value data. We are aware that many municipalities have already had a very high quality property record for the purpose of compensation for the use of building land, and the law provides that all existing records, which are of quality, are taken into account and upgraded by the decommissioning already mentioned. Together with the services of the National Assembly, as will be presented later, the Committee has prepared certain amendments aimed at clarifying and clarifying certain procedural issues. I am convinced that the proposed law will adequately regulate an important segment of the functioning of the State, which affects both the functioning of the authorities and the competitive possibilities of individuals and economic operators, so I propose that you adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law has also been considered by the Committee on Environment and Space as a parent working body and I invite the chairman of the Committee, Mr Petan, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, Your Honor! The Committee on the Environment of the State has carried out a second examination of the proposed Real Estate Registration Act, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a regular basis by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Written opinions and comments were forwarded to the Law and Law Service of the National Assembly, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman for Public Information and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Real Estate Employment. In the introduction, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, stressed the basic objectives of the draft law, which ensures the establishment of a system, the recording of real estate in a way that, through legal proceedings at the initiative of owners and the use of various modern technical and technical methods and procedures at the initiative of the State or local communities, the real estate records will be complete and qualitative. Proposal for a Real Estate Registration Act in line with modern international trends and guidelines and recommendations aimed at establishing multi-purpose real estate data and building a real estate system that will provide a basis for the wide use of data for different purposes at the level of the country, local communities, individual owners, investors and other users. The proposal for a law is based on principles and simplifications relating to the simplification of real estate registration procedures in real estate records, the provision of complete real estate records data in the manner of decommissioning recorded real estate data, the systematic regulation of entries in the real estate cadaster of buildings, the register of real estate and the gradual improvement of the quality of real estate data, the provision of up-to-date real estate data and so on. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments to the individual articles of the draft law, noting that in determining the jurisdiction, establishment and maintenance of the Earth cadastra, the cadastra of buildings, the register of property, state border records, the register of spatial units as the competent authority is designated by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. And the following law on State administration should be as a competent authority carrying out administrative tasks in the field of geodesy mentioned by the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Environment and Space. The identification of the body in the composition that deals specifically with the issue in question is intended to be a matter of a government regulation. A representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also participated in the debate, which in his opinion supported the adoption of the bill, drew attention to the provision of, according to him, missing funds in the State budget for 2006 and 2007. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee warned and paid attention to the provisions of Article 58 which governs, in particular, Article 58, which regulates the administrative procedure for recording administrative comassation and the possibility of extending or modifying the area of comassation during the administrative procedure. Similarly, the members of the committee were interested in the debate in section 98 of the draft law on why only a building could be regarded as a real estate, since other objects of great value, which are not covered by the proposal for a law, could also be located on the plot. The members of the Committee also paid particular attention in the debate to Articles 115 and 117 of the proposal for a law defining the public issue of data and the issue of anti-payment data when it comes to the re-use of data and defining the funds obtained in this way as their own activity. The Committee later adopted amendments to a series of articles, some were substantive, and a lot of them were purely editorial on the proposal for a legislative legal service. After a discussion on the articles of the draft law and on the debate and vote on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted, a supplementary proposal has been prepared in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has all the amendments that have been adopted, with all the amendments and is also an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I have the first word, Mr Robert Croat, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Real Estate Registration Act, which we are dealing with, is a system law governing the recording of all real estates in the Republic of Slovenia and the recording of data on spatial units and on the state border. Such substantive rounding of the law was determined by the implementation of the law in 2000. In determining the situation of this basic land record, it is necessary to take into account the previous attitude towards property ownership during the period of social property. We know that the real estate market did not exist at the time and that real estate was not regarded as an economic good, which is quite the opposite of what it is today. We all know that the real estate market in the Republic of Slovenia has become extremely active in the last few years. Only on the basis of data from the real estate tax rate in the Republic of Slovenia has 115% increase in real estate transactions made in the last five years. These and some other data mentioned in government documents show that the country simply needs to establish records that will allow the development of the real estate market, investment and economy. Data on real estates are said to be a land cadaster and a cadastral building still under construction, and also a cadastral of economic public infrastructure, which is not yet in existence, are currently incomplete, untimely and of poor quality. The basic objective of the bill is to establish a real estate recording system in a way that, through administrative procedures on the initiative of owners and through the use of different modern technical methods and procedures at the initiative of the State or local communities, the real estate records will be complete and quality data in them. The draft law still separates the competence to carry out the technical and administrative part of the implementation of the procedures and the competence to carry out the procedures for the recording of real estate in the register of the Earth cadastra and the cadastra of buildings. However, on the basis of several years of practice and the expressed necessity of establishing data on buildings and parts of buildings, the bill also provides for the creation of a new register, namely a real estate register, which is more than a welcome addition and a change. The proposed amendments shall also simplify the procedures for the registration of regulated and amended parcel boundaries in the terrestrial cadastra, in particular in cases where an agreed solution is reached on the ground itself where the procedure is managed by a geodetic undertaking. In these cases, the geodetic management shall, without substantive review of the procedure in accordance with the reduced administrative procedure, record a new situation and, of course, the responsibility of the geodetic undertaking to carry out the procedure shall be increased. The same applies to the recording of buildings and parts of buildings in the cadastral buildings. Simplification of procedures increases the possibility of overcoming existing backlogs, particularly in the field of land cadastral procedures. The bill places particular emphasis on ensuring the conditions for obtaining real estate data in today's imperfect real estate records and improving the quality of existing data. As can be seen from the very explanation of the law, the bill provides for a method of recording the code of dwellings and business premises as provided for by the Housing Act and thus systematically records this data as the data of the cadastral of buildings and the register of immovable property. The proposal for a real estate registration law follows the objectives of establishing a single real estate system in the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will, of course, support the law along with the amendments to the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Gantar, who will present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the LDS, we welcome the government's decision to draw up a new real estate registration law to replace the old real estate registration law, state borders and spatial units; and it is also probably right to shorten this long title. This law also needs to be amended because experience with the implementation of the previous law has brought some new solutions, new perspectives and it is right to get a new law, not just the changes of the old. However, I must admit that we are not too pleased with the result that came on our parliamentary bench; a little later. There are therefore several reasons for the drafting of the new law. Probably the most important reason is the fact that the real estate directory redefines the concept of real estate as land with its constituents, buildings or parts of buildings and requires the establishment of a real estate register, which is what this law also does. In particular, it should be noted that progress in information technology is linked to GPS, allowing more precise and faster techniques, data capture and processing, which also requires certain adjustments to the law. The law also provides or lays the basis for the implementation of the renovation of the information system and the implementation of the data unbundling and the acquisition of data for the real estate registry and the cadaster of buildings. The following will need to be allocated 1.2 billion in 2006 and then another 860 million tolars for 2007, plus some other tasks that are slightly less difficult financially. That's a lot of money. At the hearing on the parental committee, we did not know much about logistical and other preparations for the project, so we can only hope that it will have the main word in this section, but not the interests of politicians. However, I hope that at least on the Committee on the Environment and Space we will learn more about this project before it starts. The proposal for a real estate registration law, also because the law on the mass valuation of real estate is also being considered, usually links many Members and Members with the future real estate tax law. Of course, good real estate records are a prerequisite for fair taxation, but the law is not intended only for this or above all for this. In fact, this law is in addition to the Law on Geodesy, in some ways the basic law of geodesy and regulates a number of other things other than the register of property related to taxation. However, it is simply not possible to avoid the issue of property taxation in this law. And let me just say that any set-up of property taxation, which will want to impose real estate taxes or change just to fill municipal budgets, will end up in confusion, chaos and the rebellion of taxpayers. The taxation of real estate must be a possession and urban policy, not a tax revenue. In this light, from this point of view of the law, we see some flaws or weaknesses. Article 98 has already been mentioned, which provides for the specific determination of real estate. You can see for yourself that the relationship between the plot and the building is defined in five possible ways or buildings and parts of buildings. It is clear, however, that this method of definition, which is otherwise corrected on the plot, will not allow the differentiation of the two objects which have, for example, a completely different status from the point of view of taxation. I'm not going to talk about the cases that were listed on the committee right now. But the register won't detect that. Some of this is addressed by Article 104, which allows the geodetic service to collect certain owner data using questionnaires. This is a strong exaggeration, and I'll talk about it later. I'm gonna cut back because I'm running out of time. In the LDS, we had quite a discussion and two views were formed. On the one hand, we were those who believe that this property registration law is important in itself, as a basic law of geodetical activity, and it is reasonable to support it, of course also to try to correct it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , or another point of view which states that this law should be adopted together with the Property Valuation Act. Since this is a major political issue, we have left Members and Members of the LDS to decide for themselves and the Secretary of State and the Director to give us a chance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	Dr. Gantar, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	convince us that he is voting for this law as much as possible. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Weber, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, President, and for your warm welcome to all on behalf of the Social Democrats. The proposal for a real estate registration law is certainly one of the most important laws and I want to say that this project started in 2000 when we started the biggest real estate project in Slovenia after independence. The project was aimed at the production of digital cadastral plans, photogeometric coverage of all buildings, the production of ortho photo plans, informationisation and the elimination of backlogs on land books. Very up-to-date and necessary information. At the same time, it was also important to look into the establishment of a real estate system for the development of a mass valuation system for the purpose of taxation, mortgage banking and the information aspect. The results of the work carried out are certainly also visible in practice during this period, as many tasks in the processing of digital cadastral plans and ortho photo plans as well as the adoption of the mortgage and municipal bond law show that conditions are in place to develop an effective real estate market. However, in the procedure today we have the very law on the recording of real estate, and this is also to be followed by the law on the valuation of property. Important and extensive materials and this task will depend largely on how we do it, depending on the geodetic service, where the technical part of the procedures is the private sector and on the administrative part of the state geodetic service. The practice so far has shown that a lot of inefficiency due to increased administrative and administrative work on the part of the geodetic administration is very long, as the process that determines the finality of the border itself is very long. Today, however, we need a rapid response and response that motivates investment and investment and development. It is therefore necessary to establish multi-purpose records and systems in the real estate sector that will enable the objective design and management of social, spatial and tax policies. The current system also needs to be replaced by a modern real estate tax system, for which the tax base will be defined as a market value, if we are talking about a remuneration for the use of building land. Data on the number, type, surface, quality and location of the property must be linked to the population and, in this connection, enable the implementation of social policies and regional development policies. Today, we still face major differences in regional development or in the development of individual regions, including in the social field, we find that differences are greater and do not diminish, so reducing differences is one of the important directions that we will follow in the implementation of this law with the Social Democrats. And if this law achieves what is stated among the objectives of simplifying real estate registration procedures, ensuring the completeness of real estate data and ensuring that data is up-to-date, there will certainly be a very important objective, but we are afraid that the achievement of these objectives will be somewhat difficult or more difficult, as it appears at first, because at some point the simplification of procedures or the completeness of data may be contrary to each other, so that it is expected that there will also be disputes or uncertainties in the implementation of this law. Therefore, it will be necessary to provide substantial resources, which are also foreseen in this budget, in order to make the law as effective as possible. We are concerned, however, that the 2006 and 2007 budget does not have the resources to be provided if we add to this a parallel record maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture with so-called Gerkis, we find that there is somehow a loss of efficiency in the use of public funds. And we want to have one law, one record, and you are sufficiently effective. We will support the marriage at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kokal to the floor on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	We have a very important marriage ahead of us. The law, which deals comprehensively with the area of property registration, will have major consequences for both the state and citizens. Today, the Republic of Slovenia does not have data on the number, type and quality of real estate for the purposes of implementing its development strategies, at least not collected according to one specific, clear and transparent standard. Therefore, it must also establish multi-purpose records and systems in the real estate sector that will allow for the objective design and management of social, spatial and tax policies. The Republic of Slovenia has been asking for several years questions about the completeness and quality of real estate records for the implementation of these policies, and thus the necessity of their establishment or upgrading. In 2000, the current law on the recording of property of the State border and spatial units entered into force. This law, in addition to the register of the earth cadastre we have, thanks to Maria Teresa, has also introduced a cadastral of buildings and a cadastral of economic public infrastructures, which are still under development. However, the type of accompanying real estate legislation was created after 2000. The proposed law simplifies procedures, provides more complete data, provides more up-to-date data, we hope to reduce the administrative and administrative work of officials on the geodetic board. The law establishes a new register, a real estate register and as part of its data on dwellings and on permanent or temporary residents in dwellings. In addition to the new record, we think it is the most important change in the simplification of geodetic procedures. All those of us who have had the need for a geodetic process in recent years know that these procedures have been extremely bureaucraticly long-term and, last but not least, very expensive, especially for procedures where landowners were unknown, retired or avoided participation in these procedures. In such cases, procedures could have lasted forever or could not be completed. It was completely pointless to perform double or multiple executions due to non-conformity with the border that had been regulated. This has caused too much complication on many occasions. Under the existing law, the parties to the proceedings were unable to waive the right of appeal and had to wait for the prescribed 15 days to become definitive, irrespective of the fact that all the parties stated that they agreed to the decision and would not complain about it. But we know what it means to be late every day for some big investment or construction. The proposed law actually simplifies and reduces geodetic procedures. The law still separates the competence to carry out the technical work carried out by geodetic undertakings and the administrative work carried out by the geodetic administration, with the responsibility of the geodetic undertaking to carry out the procedure and responsibility of the responsible geodetics for the expertise and regularity of the laboratory being increased. It also seems important that the law reintroduces a new measure. In certain and intensive areas with poor data from the Earth's disaster, a new measurement is the only way to get real and accurate data. Let us also draw attention to the problem of computer programs used by the Geodetic Administration to maintain and maintain its records. Programmes have been produced and upgraded all the years to date for each single record separately, for some records also after two programmes, such as for a land cadastral. The software solutions are incompatible with each other and could not be linked, the information renovating of the records is necessary, such a project has already taken place in 2003, as far as we are aware, has failed in some way. Information reform is essential as there are serious problems in practice in maintaining existing software solutions regularly and in developing new ones. Bad software will make it very difficult for regional geodetic authorities to carry out all the tasks of this law. Notwithstanding the fact that the law in the procedure has considerable financial implications for the budget, we expect that this time these funds will be used more effectively and will actually help the database, which will be accurate and up-to-date. This is the basis for establishing order in space and the only way to reduce opacity, which is still very much present. To the extent that the data will be used for taxation, the regulated database is the only way to moderate and, above all, fair taxation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Preseknik has the following word on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and fellow Members! Despite much work done in the area of real estate recording in recent years, in particular in the direction of informing and establishing geodetic data in real estate records, we can find that we do not have properly regulated real estate databases. As a result, for example, we do not have data on the type and quality of real estate, which causes problems, as the competent ministry also notes, in the implementation of Slovenia's development strategies. Single and complete records are also necessary for a fair and uniform management of spatial and tax policies. At the same time, the real estate area is very sensitive, as it is linked to large investments and, in the case of unregulated records, to the risks of investors in the real estate market, to individual natural or legal persons. So much more worrying is the fact that the Ministry of the Environment has written in the explanation of the law. Data on real estates, this is about land and related ingredients, are actually incomplete, unhurry and poor quality. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such an assessment requires an early regulation of this area. In particular, the Slovenian People's Party welcomes the simplification of real estate registration procedures in real estate records and the pursuit of the objective of quality real estate records. One of the more critical areas of real estate recording is the backlog in land cadastre procedures, which in practice causes quite a few problems. The proposal for a real estate registration law and the resulting simplification of procedures should also resolve these backlogs. However, quality and complete real estate data are of course also relevant for the implementation of development strategies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. We expect him to live quickly in practice and to ensure systematic regulation of real estate records. Of course, the law will also have certain implications for the state budget. We believe that the area of real estate records is so important that the additional financial resources from the budget should not be an obstacle to the regulation of these records. We therefore expect the government to provide all the means necessary to implement such an important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Vice-President Pečet on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Your Honor, Vice President Pavlich. Several times today, it has been said that the law before us will serve primarily for multipurpose records. I personally don't believe that. I think the law before us is following the pace of events in connection with the introduction of a new property tax. In April 2006, where we are, we are adopting this law. The law on the basis of which it will be possible to identify all real estates and on the basis of this record it will be possible to place this property on a new and higher tax burden. As you know, in September of this year, we have a real estate tax law, namely, that tax that the Prime Minister has answered my question in which he stated that not all properties will be taxed. Well, despite the fact that we know that the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance makes it clear that the tendency of the law that we will meet in September, the real estate tax law, or the tendency, is to quote: "The starting point is the taxation of all real estates with as few exceptions as possible." Of course, whether they do not follow the words of the Prime Minister or they do not follow the word of the material maker, the one who wrote the law. In December of this year, this type of register is expected to be established and a short register of the real estate market is expected to be established. It is expected to be established immediately in January next year. As soon as January of next year, the real estate tax law was in force and the first real estate tax was expected to take place in September 2007. From this title, I personally assess that in the case of the law before us today, it is not multi-purpose records. I believe that in his explanation of the purposes of this law, the Secretary of State has also stressed that records could also be used in the field of fiscal policy. However, I think that, when he listed various policies, he highlighted this only as the fifth or the last policy. I personally assess, as it is said, that unfortunately this is the only purpose of this law, in order to be able to follow the pace that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing. By the way, let me also stop in the context of the financial consequences of the law, which, at the expense of the views of individual parliamentary groups, was, in my opinion, very flat-rate or very modestly presented. So that I'm not wrong in numbers, let me read for a change. The implementation of the law will have financial implications on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Firstly, 794 million Slovenian tolars will have to be provided for the IT project. Secondly, the production of data on the permanent and temporary registration of residents will require the provision of 50 million Slovenian tolars in 2006, 25 million Slovenian tolars in 2007, all of which are covered by this Act. Thirdly, data on buildings and parts of buildings will cost our country or budget of the Republic of Slovenia 2,000 million Slovenian tolars, I emphasise 2,000 million Slovenian tolars, of which 1,200 million will have to be provided in 2006 and 800 million Slovenian tolars in 2007; now we are only in the fourth item of the financial consequences of the Act. I'm moving on with the heel. The real estate register for the establishment of the database will cost us 120 million Slovenian tolars in 2006, as well as 120 million Slovenian tolars in 2007 and 30 million Slovenian tolars each year. The registration of land use data will require 70 million in 2006 and 10 million Slovenian tolars each year. In order to determine the new data on the Earth disaster, it will be necessary to provide 20 million in the first phase, in the following years after 5 million per year. For computer production we will give 90 million in 2006 and 90 million in 2007. Regular maintenance of this system will cost about 40 million Slovenian tolars annually. For increased expertise [[End warning sign]] The education of people involved in this system, i.e. government representatives, will have to be paid annually 20 million Slovenian tolars, for professional technical field work over 23 million years and beyond. Since time haunts me, I can't list the other financial consequences, but I hope you get the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present DeSUS's position, Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much again. The law that we are considering and which we are supporting in the DeSUS Group is certainly not one-dimensional. It is true that taxation is to a large extent also involved, but it is not just that. And in that part that says that this law also has some developmental potential, it must be supported in particular in that part. It is true, however, that it is necessary to read a law in a series to understand that this law is related to the law that we will deal with in a few weeks’ time, and the law on the mass valuation of property, and the law on the real estate tax, and the resulting abolition of compensation for the use of building land and all that will happen later. Perhaps that is why, for those who face this issue directly, it is so important to pay more attention to some of the proposed legislation. All that we are talking about is happening directly in local communities, where we have problems or not with them as individuals or as local communities, as municipalities and problems that arise in relation to private and public interest. This conflict may even be overlooked in this proposed law and may need to be supplemented later. I am convinced that the law has its own sense that it is necessary to make relative irregularities, relative imbalances, including injustices in relation to, for example, large differences in the land burdens of unpaved or walled lands, especially for investors, that these problems that we see must somehow be bridged by law, to find new solutions that will be better. The bill gives us this opportunity now. We therefore support it not only as a technical law, but as a law that will allow even a series of direct procedures that will improve or enable the resolution of individual problems, from the threshold. We understand it in particular in the sense that it means an approach to some more active land policy, that we will know the potential we have, on the one hand, to evaluate and, on the other hand, engage in development. Both in terms of development in the equation of regional differences and within individual smaller spatial entities. Chapters, I think that the 10 or 12 that speak about this in this law cannot now be considered in more detail, and the whole of them probably need to be given a transitional positive assessment and further discussions. We support this because it is now, I think, for the first time, so strongly drawn into the process of active policy also by an individual owner. And taking on certain responsibilities, also taking on certain responsibilities. You can't deal with real estate just like that, let's say, conditionally and in concoctions, in stock. It's a property that's not just positive. This is a property that can, when unactivated, also be a burden. And we must be aware of that slowly. We will come up with a new concept, I hope that property, property values, market prices, active land taxation policy, potential for development, including environmental protection and everything else, which is about this issue. The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a law, and will also be involved in further procedures to perhaps improve or supplement something. We will also support the proposed amendments. I would like to point out to the proposers of this law that they may reconsider how to resolve the conflict between private and public interest, which in particular in local communities very often turns out to be a pressing problem where large development projects are halted with such a small personal benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to a debate on two articles and two amendments, which remind you that we will lead the debate for the first time on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.3. and the second time on the basis of the amendment to the 121st article which I believe you have received today. I am putting to the debate Article 104 and the amendment of the SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS Group of Members and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Dr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	If no one answers, I'll start. There'll probably be someone else. Article 104 speaks simply of this questionnaire. The Committee has already expressed its view that these questionnaires are too extensive to collect too much data, that some of the data collected with this questionnaire will be of a temporary nature, that things change and that the questionnaire will, of course, change in a wide variety of ways in certain cases and that the question is the point of collecting such large data equally for housing and other buildings. This amendment, made by the coalition group, distinguishes between three types of buildings: residential, industrial and business. I believe that the separation between industrial and business buildings today is, in a sense, pointless and useless precisely because of the nature, the changed logic and nature of industrial activity and that it is also statistically meaningful to distinguish, like the works of statistics, between business and housing buildings and buildings. I'll talk about this amendment first. I believe that this amendment is too little and that our amendment is better from this point of view, even though the LDS Group's amendment still has a relatively large amount of data. In particular, I would like to point out that point 6 which reads as follows: The real estate data obtained from the questionnaire can only be used for the purpose of establishing and maintaining the real estate register and for the mass valuation of movable property can be very problematic in view of the fact that the purpose of establishing and managing the property register is also understood by the use of the real estate register for all the purposes for which the real estate register is used. In particular, you have highlighted here the proponents, whoever has already written the amendment, the mass valuation of the movement. Of course, with one view, however, we need to look at mass valuation and future taxation or tax change. And here are the conceptual problems where I'm very embarrassed. I don't know if, let's say some element in this questionnaire is going to be data for mass valuation of movements, I wonder if the building will have an Internet connection, that the building has everything, I would say that it has improved this, that third, of course, it will serve as a basis for this apartment to have more points, more value and be taxed better. This, of course, is now a very controversial question. If I understand the real estate tax correctly, it must refer to certain objective properties of real estate. And if you punish people by taxing them with what is moving, if I may say so, technical, additional, technologically developed in the apartment, you will do a poor service to technological development of apartments, business buildings, etc. In my opinion, some of the data we have here in our amendment are necessary, but not from the point of view of the mass valuation of real estate, but from the point of view that someone, a businessman looking for an object for his business activity, looks into the register of real estate and says, this building on this site has a connection, has a network, has a light height of so much and so many meters, has two exhibition windows, has a separate entrance for customers and, say, employees and on the basis of these data, I can decide which business objects I will look at and not look at all. From this point of view, it makes sense. From the point of view of the mass valuation of real estate as mentioned here, I find it extremely problematic. And I really don't know why you drag in a marriage, I don't know, the final processing of the soil and the final processing of the walls that can change every couple of years, especially in business buildings, really change. Why is it that the number of rooms is dragged in the apartment building, exclusively for the purpose of carrying out activities and similar things, which are also difficult to determine because it is difficult to say whether a room is solely for the pursuit of an activity or is my or, I don't know, the living room in the apartment exclusively for the activities performed or in the interior we also live on, etc. The merger of work and housing no longer distinguishes between these one-function spaces and it is pointless to have a marriage. Really. I'm warning you about these things. From this point of view, I believe that the LDS amendment is better if it still has too many or so many parameters that are being measured and I think that this amendment is poor, and especially is a poor amendment to the parliamentary coalition, and this sixth paragraph is particularly questionable. These data on these properties shall be kept as a real estate register and shall be used in these matters for which the real estate register is used. In particular, once again, I would rule out the fact that it is a matter of mass valuation of property. If you make this a law on mass property valuation, you will do a really bad service. Once again, you know, when you're driving through some Mediterranean countries, say our member of the European Union, Greece, and there you've seen that a lot of buildings don't have finished roofs, because it's considered to be in accordance with building regulations, that the building is finished when the roof is finished. That's when he gets his license, and that's when he's also the subject of real estate taxes. Since people do not want to pay real estate taxes, they simply never complete the roofs and so you always have unfinished construction. You will create things here that will make people give up internet connection, connection to certain technology services and things because it can enter the price of mass property valuation. Nowhere is excluded, and from this point of view I would rather say, be careful, remove unnecessary data and reduce the data to those necessary, not in terms of mass valuation, but in terms of transparency, transparency and possible economic use of the register, as many pre-declarants have already spoken and told me why we need a real estate register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Secretary of State of Mag. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. See, this law or real estate registration is just a service for other activities that relate to it. Therefore, to limit the data that we will now be able to obtain at the time of the decommissioning and thereby finally establish a specific transparent register of properties, as far as possible and as far as is possible within the framework of the constitutional restrictions already imposed by the Constitutional Court's decision years ago, this article has been written for this purpose. And the debate on the committee itself has gone in the direction of clear division according to the rules of the profession, what is already being done, what is already being collected and what are the possibilities for us to upgrade and supplement this data. In doing so, I would like to say in particular that no record can come to life if there are no appropriate motivational mechanisms. And the motivational mechanisms were what led us to make this regulation. The first motivational mechanism is decomposition. By decomposing, we will obtain a large amount of data, but they cannot remain alone, but they must have certain further objectives and, above all, automation in updating and upgrading these data. No data in itself yet has any effect, no data in itself has any effect on any further policy. But if you don't have it in the base record, but you can never use it, not for the motivational benefit of investors or for the demotivating of speculators. In any event, the restriction at this stage, when it comes to a large investment called a decomposition, and by the way, to answer what has been said about costs, is closely linked to this issue. The specific costs to be incurred by this decommissioning will be the costs to be saved on the census, which must take place in a few years. In short, we have also pooled the data needed for that decomposition or census, thereby rationalising the costs at this level. In short, the precision required by the Constitutional Court, which is linked to the rights of individuals to collect data only on those matters and on those issues which have been pre-defined and which have been intended to be pre-defined, has led us to this article to be formulated in this way. The specific problems that could arise, the division between public and private or other procedures and the protection of interests under the procedures, are certainly a component of each of the administrative procedures and of each of the procedures also under this law. By adding this, this is the first step towards a system of records that will be more comprehensive and that will link everything we have and will also serve the municipalities or, above all, the municipalities. The main institution of the present compensation for the use of building land is the municipal budget. Therefore, for any purpose, whatever will be defined, the integrity and accuracy of the preconditions. To limit the integrity and accuracy of the collection phase, as this could possibly have a negative impact later on other policies, is, in our view, a wrong policy. If you have complete information today, at least you have the opportunity to use it. Nor can you use them to implement individual policies. However, if you limit yourself to the very beginning and because we are setting up a multi-purpose record and the purposes will be something here, and it is also foreseen by later technological development, that we will be able to upgrade this data and, above all, provide any user for his investments and other development options and strategies, it is what was the main motive. The restrictions were constitutional, the restrictions were technical, but other restrictions on the quality and scope of the data or there is no reason for any other kind of restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, young visitors, whom I warmly welcome in the Slovenian Parliament, joined the Tribunal. Let me also say that there are usually more people in the hall, but this time we had a meeting until one in the morning. But we're talking about a proposal for a real estate registration law. Mr Hrvat and not Mr Anderlich have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to refer myself to this 104th article or to the amendment. In view of the concerns of the majority of the members of the Committee on the Environment and the space on the 104th Article of the Law governing the questionnaire, we have tabled amendments to the coalition parties on the basis of the debate held on the Committee on Environment and Space. The main point on the committee was that it was not precisely defined what would be collected for what types of buildings. That's why this amendment was prepared. A very similar or I could say identical amendment was also introduced by the Liberal Democracy Club. I don't see or see many differences here, so I'm surprised at the position of the representatives of the Liberal Democracy. In fact, the decision of the Constitutional Court, as Mr State Secretary has already said, is why it was needed and why this division of the questionnaire was necessary. This provides that the law must specify exactly what information is to be collected for what purpose or for what purpose it can be used. I think that Article 104 or the amendment to paragraph 104 covers all that the Committee has essentially warned about and I think that this significantly improves the law, so I think that this amendment should also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	The decision on the Constitutional Court is clear, and this is that the data must be clearly indicated which may be collected. Therefore, you have provided all possible information that you can collect, and you will collect it with this questionnaire. But this, as I understand it, is also contrary to some of the professional methodological baselines, to collect the data that we know why we are collecting. We collect data with a certain purpose and purpose, and with these purposes and objectives we also define the data that we need to collect. Collecting data that we don't know why we're collecting and why we're using it, but it's dangerous, and in my opinion, the Constitutional Court, if anyone complains, may once again interfere with the collection of too much data that you don't know what you're going to use it for, or use it, if it turns out to be. It is necessary to make this mental and, above all, the professional effort to tell which data is collected with this questionnaire and what data is relevant to be collected with this questionnaire. Once again, the data on the final processing of walls, ceilings and floors is pointless to collect, because the questionnaire will not be repeated every year, you will not give a billion two hundred million tolars a year to expand. In a few years in basic buildings, these pressures, ceilings, and so on can change even annually. It's even worse to have information that you don't know why you're collecting, which is still raw data. That is why this mental effort must be made. True, the differences between the two amendments at first sight are not great, but the devil lies in the details. You will see, the classification is instead three to two segments of buildings, residential and business, because we do not distinguish between business and industrial buildings. What's a bakery? Industrial building or business building? What's the warehouse? Industrial or business building? And so on. So, only two types of buildings are residential and non-residential. And secondly, in my opinion, certain things are better written with us. We have written, say, plumbing connections, not plumbing sewers, but connections for plumbing, sewerage, electricity, gas, telephone, cable network or other, say, optical networks and so on. Connectors. We're interested in the wall connection, not the plumbing, and so on. And that's why these definitions are better with us, in my opinion, in this amendment. In the case of non-residential buildings, we made sure that we really put those elements inside, which are important for the business decisions of people who rent, sell, buy commercial residential buildings. And nothing more than that. It is simpler and is used in the same way as the real estate register is used in general, and matters are clear and clear. That is why I believe that this amendment is more qualitative and more restrictive of will. One more time. Before you go to the dispersion, let this expert make this mental effort to know what information you are collecting, why and for what purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you. 104. It is very important how we will try to record what data we are collecting, as it is also stated in the third paragraph that if these registration data are not completed in the questionnaire, a proposal will, of course, be submitted by the Geodetic Administration to the criminal authority to act in accordance with Article 130 of this Act. The more we ask for some detailed information, the more likely it will be to make mistakes. Many times I think that we can assess that you do not actually have all the child data as envisaged here, but it is also true that if we are already collecting some data, it would be very important to have a fact before us, whether if a facade is properly arranged, a proposal for some tax relief, or if this is because the object is, I will say, abandoned and mutilated, for example, a city core, a reasoned proposal that this facility be additionally taxed because the owner does not care about the facility. Today, we face major problems in cities, facilities that have been or have been returned in the process of denationalisation, but the owner cares in a way that he cares about and many times happens to actually tell the city what it looks like. However, it is very difficult to obtain information in some procedures about who owns it at all. These are particularly cases of inheritance, and sometimes these procedures are extremely long, extremely complicated, in fact you do not have a contact person to talk to about a matter being rectified. I think it would be very important to establish a mechanism for this data in particular, at a time when we don't even know exactly who the owner is, whether there is a ownership process or something like that, but some action on the facility is absolutely necessary. Here I think it would be extremely important to foresee situations and solutions that either the inspection body or the institution that will have the power to draw up tax measures could take appropriate action. I don't think it's even disputed in this law that we treat it as the first one in this package, if that's what we can call it. The valuation of real estate is also a specific project, but it seems to me that this valuation of real estate should be adopted somehow in a package of laws, which will then also prescribe specific taxation based on this valuation. I think that then more information can be gathered here and maybe some quality solutions that will, in practice, be sufficiently effective, acceptable to the majority. Once again, I think that in these amendments that we now have at our disposal, they are both very extensive if we just collect all this data. It is true, however, that the Geodetic Authority can collect this data by means of a questionnaire, so that in some cases we can also avoid it and probably make a lot of simplification with the other procedures envisaged, through a direct examination, a census and so on. And I would also like to be able to really try to gather a lot of data in the field, especially in this visual way, through the information that the municipalities have, and only in some of the most urgent cases can it then be affected by some details, whether it's a wooden summer or plastic or something like that. I am somehow more inclined to give more support to the amendment tabled by the LDS House of Members, but only from this point of view, which requires more information where we expect, let's say, fewer problems then also in implementation. I think this one is simpler, and that is why I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	First I give my word to Mr Mikolić and then I will give it to you, Mr Secretary of State. Mr. Mikolitch, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. When I listened to Dr Gantar's debate on how he felt that too many of these details were involved or that, for example, the final treatment of the wall, the final treatment of the ceiling and so on, I would say that he did not hold back the argument that what was supposed to change over a few years, which I cannot deny for myself in any way that it would not actually hold up the argument that this should not have been mentioned. I firmly believe that it will certainly be someone in two, three years from now if this changes, but these are just one of the elements, if it changes, that someone will be interested in updating the matter, says the legislator or, above all, the user. We do have a similar example today as we implement the Law on the Foundation of Building Lands, where it is similar to ours. I must say that some of the local communities, which have fairly well updated data or have already been carried out, especially in urban settlements, the register of buildings, we are also doing this. But it is not only the legislator’s interest as a local community, but it is primarily the interest of those who have to pay this compensation on the basis of this law. And I feel the same way about this law. I am also firmly convinced, as the government representatives have also said, that given that all this data will be collected, that an operator who costs so much and so much will be selected, why not then all the data that we may not need in one year from now, we may need them in five years. And to conclude. I personally believe that this amendment of the coalition will also support that this is the right way for these data to be collected, those who will benefit or in the first stage to be taken into account in some, if I now call it, real estate tax, in order to take only those who belong to this segment into account. Even before I heard the debate on internet connections, we can probably talk about other things, especially at one stop of communication or communication infrastructure, and the municipal infrastructure, that somehow we just have to distinguish what that primary infrastructure is, which we can somehow build on one side, we can call a local community or it is a public acquisition of the place, and on the other hand is a secondary part, which is also good that it is recorded. What if I go back to what I said before? With regard to the compensation for the use of building land, we also have this in the so-called register of buildings, of course we already have what is clearly visible as what is primary and what is secondary. What is secondary has been invested by each user and, on the basis of this, does not increase its value for compensation, but for the primary infrastructure, which has a specific value in place, certainly has to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would just say that the data was specifically given in relation to the experience so far. There's no data here to be collected just for unknown purposes. So far, most of these data have been used either for statistical purposes or for either the valuation methodology. All that has been taken into account or taken into account in the known methodologies so far, all of this has been strung up as a single data. Of course, at the time of development and in the case of technical changes both industrial buildings and business buildings, certain segments may no longer be available or will no longer be used because they will no longer exist. This option, of course, exists that with the restructuring and development of certain buildings, certain segments will simply not be able to be completed. This does not reduce the need today as long as all the above data are more, somewhere less accessible, so that this is not possible as an opportunity to produce a questionnaire, as I have already said, due to the serious severity placed on the legislator by the Constitutional Court. However, in any event, there is no reason, in relation to what has been said with regard to any other indication or entry, that this trifle is broader and more precise and more detailed reductions, tax cuts, possible data, this does not exclude all that is proposed by the LDS Group. All of this has been done on the basis of the professional basis of the current collection by the Statistical Office and the existing evaluation methodologies that will be upgraded and will change. We couldn't write more than that into the law. Not least, if only one building could get any, just one of these data, if we do not explicitly have it in the law, this option will not be so with regard to facades, with regard to those issues that will relate to possible policies that can be strategic, spatial and part of land policy. But if we don't have this, simply these things, I stress once again, as a motivational instrument in any policy, it will not be possible to use it. The cases have therefore been carried out on the basis of the trials that have taken place so far. They're basically meant to be, if we're looking very general, two. One is statistical, the other is evaluation, but in the broadest sense, not just mass evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you. Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	I need to comment on this. Statistics select a lot of data and it is true that some of these data listed here are selected statistics in lists of households and other censuses. But be careful, the difference between statistical collection and this recording is large, huge and insurmountable. Statistical data can only be used as aggregate data under the law and we users of statistics cannot and must not reach the source of data, that is to say, that and that building that makes up the number of 75% of buildings that have the final processing of the walls as well. Real estate registers or registers are the other way around. Their value is based on learning exactly what the property is like. And of course the difference between statistical data collection and such data collection is huge and enormous. I warn you, otherwise I will not do this, but if any disgruntled owner starts to complain and proves on the basis of a magnetogram of this debate that A, data is collected which are not even known exactly why they will be needed, and B that they are referring to the collection of data on statistical gatherings so that such an article, which will have excessive data, may even fall. I do not want to do this because I think it is important that inside some of the data relevant to the real estate market are for land policy, but not all of this data. And it needs to be reduced. That still acceptable limit has been given, in my opinion, in the LDS amendment, although perhaps there is something else we could take care of. It's a matter of discussion. Therefore, I would warn you to reconsider and perhaps it would still be valid and suggest that we support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 104 and on the two amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 121, as it was corrected. This is the amendment of SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, hair time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	I'm sorry. I'm not a nobody. I'm a Gantar. However, I will personally support this amendment, and I believe, also the parliamentary group, extend this option to who gets this data, while we regret that, at the same time, urban companies would make sense to include it in this list, but if the coalition has decided to do so, it is only so. We don't have any power here, but this amendment, the correction is better than the previous one, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you. I'm sorry. I've never seen a hand cut before. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. Now it is clear that this will be sooner than the expected half-eight hours. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State and the Director for Cooperation. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments to the media law. We have five hours and 55 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, the first-signed Majdo Shirca and the Mirano Potrče, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. Since there are no government representatives, we have no choice but to suspend the meeting in 10 minutes and continue the meeting at 12 noon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Dear Members and honourable Members, all those who are present, and all those who follow us through the offices! We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, with the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the media law. As Vice-President Pavlich said, the time foreseen for this debate is limited to 5 hours and 55 minutes. Mr Pavlih suspended the meeting of the National Assembly for 10 minutes in order to ensure the participation of the Minister. However, we have received a notice that the Minister is scheduled to join us within 15 minutes. I propose that the National Assembly hold the debate as envisaged. First, we present our views and then, when the Minister joins us, we give him our word after the end of the presentation. Does anyone object? [[Nobody.]] This means that we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. The first position will be given by Member Majda Širc, the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mrs. Possonchev, I just told you what's going to happen. No one objected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Without a minister, nothing!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Mrs Possonchev, I'll tell you again that a few seconds ago, I asked if anyone was opposed. It's not my fault you didn't hear that. We're continuing our session. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Širca, I invite you to give a position on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Procedurally. We are in front of a semi-empty hall, in the absence of a government, before the first hearing and there is no chairman of the home committee. Therefore, I ask you to suspend the meeting for as long as it is not possible to ensure the presence that is necessary in Parliament if we want to address the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Mrs Shirca, you probably know for yourself that the president of the labour force does not have a word under this item. Secondly, I have informed all the Members and Members present that the Minister will be joining us in 15 minutes. Some of you haven't heard what makes sense since you're on the phone. And it's likely that Mrs. Possonchev will answer me again in two minutes that she didn't hear because she's just making a phone call. I also said that we would give the Minister a word after presenting the views of the groups. The National Assembly is the sovereign branch of power and, in my opinion, 10 minutes is enough for government representatives to come to the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also learn the schedule. I asked whether any of the Members present objected, but no one answered. I'm in charge of the session, and I'm gonna run it for the next three hours. Once again, I call on you to give your position to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Mrs. Shirca, won't you? [[Back-up advertising.]] Calm down, Mrs. Potrata, you'll get your word right away. [[Back-up advertising.]] Turn on the microphone so we can all hear you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	On this proposal that we are an independent branch of government, I also see that this mandate is an eclectic underestimation and demeanor of the National Assembly. But I can accept your proposal, which you have taken the right to serve us in such a way that it could not be challenged, if you understand this independence so that the Minister, who was not present at the time of the presentation, does not get a word later. Why would I have words later if he's not here now?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	Look. Of course, the National Assembly may decide that it will be possible for the government to hold a constructive debate. I believe that if an application has been made, Comrade Anderlich, allow me. If a request has been made by 10 Members following the general debate that this general debate is probably not an assessment or merely a discussion by Members and Members, it is desirable that the government also speak in connection with the media law. But if there's a majority decision, given that you don't have a word for it, please, if you don't mind the meeting. [[...]] However, if it is given, and I ask you now, the proposal that the meeting be suspended in 15 minutes, someone should submit this proposal. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	I have to say that sometimes you have to listen to each other. The problem is that no one has listened to the chairman before, so I suggest we stop the meeting until the minister arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you. Who's going to object to this proposal? We're adjourning the session in 15 minutes. That means we continue at 12.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda. The minister is not among us yet. Under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister may give an explanation. While I welcome you, Mr Minister, at the meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you a second time if you show a little more responsibility to the National Assembly and do not delay and thus cause the National Assembly to go into unnecessary complications. Once again, the draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, the first-signed Majdo Shirca and the Mirano Potrče, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the law. Ten minutes, Minister Vasko Simoniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for finding out relatively late, and I am truly sorry that I was late. My presentation of the bill will be the same as it was last time. I would like to say the following in this regard. The path that has been and has been so far in the past year, and at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the objectives and main solutions offered by the proposal for a law. On 18 July 2005, the Ministry of Culture published the text of the initial thesis for public debate on the draft law on amendments and supplements to the media law on its websites and presented it to the general public on 20 July 2005, which could submit its written proposals and comments by 18 August, but received comments by the Ministry of Culture by the end of September of last year. At the Ministry of Culture we received comments and suggestions from various representatives of the interested public, the press and media association at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the professional association of radio and television programmes of special importance at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Information Officer, the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency, the Directorate for Electronic Communications, the Society of Journalists of Slovenia and the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, the Peace Institute, the Association of Slovenian Composers, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators, the Association of Cable Operators, the Union of Musicians of Slovenia, RTV Slovenia, associations of independent production and video production, then Kregar, Info net media, production Plus, Radio Triglav, Radio Kobarid, and also by some other individuals. We have particularly invited some individuals to submit their comments and proposals. Since the bill was published on our website and a press conference has also been prepared, it has also been organised by the interested public at the Ministry of Culture. A series of articles has already been written. There was also a series of meetings, various opinions, on public RTV Slovenia and other televisions. On 8 March, there was also a public presentation in this House of opinions on the proposal for this law. And in this public presentation, at least this is how I feel, there were not many objections to this proposal. In particular, the Ministry of Culture took into account comments relating to the areas already envisaged at the starting points of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law. In addition, it took into account comments concerning the protection of children and minors and the right to correction and response. In part and meaningfully, comments were taken into account, most of those relating to the area of origin in the proposal for amendments and the supplementation of the media law. However, the inappropriate comments were comments which were not foreseen in the baselines of the amendment proposal and the supplementation of the media law. The coalition coordination that took place in January of this year has also taken place several times. Prior to that, interdepartmental coordination took place, following the usual procedure, leading to a coordinated proposal ahead of us today. Allow me to present the proposed amendments and additions which have the following basic objectives: firstly, ensuring the conditions for plurality in the media by establishing funding for the programme content of the media; protecting children and minors; protecting the Slovenian language and Slovenian music creativity; coordinating with the legal order of the European Union; coordinating with changes in the telecommunications law; more precise definition of the tasks of the agency for mail and electronic communications; more precise definition of the Council's broadcasting tasks; harmonisation with legislation governing access to information of a public nature; and harmonisation with legislation governing copyright and related rights; and also harmonisation of criminal provisions with the law on offences; and, of course, amending and supplementing criminal provisions with the proposed amendments to the substantive provisions of the media law. In order to achieve the first objective, i.e. to provide conditions for media plurality, there are two mechanisms for financing the programming content of the media, whose tasks will focus primarily on ensuring pluralisation and democratisation in the media, and to improve the system of consenting to obtain more than 20% of the share in media broadcasters, in the way that government institutions in the field of competition protection and control of the securities market are also involved in the process. The proposal for a consensus is based on the Green Paper on the protection of media pluralism, prepared by the European Commission on 21 May 2003, and on the principle of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has taken a series of decisions to justify restrictions on certain fundamental rights in order to preserve media pluralism. The adoption of the proposed solutions will allow better control of media space concentration in the Republic of Slovenia and established mechanisms to ensure greater plurality in the media. The proposed type of instruments is subject to the measures to ensure media pluralism recommended by the Council of Europe in recommendation R-99/1 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to Member States regarding measures to support media pluralism. The financing of the media's programming content is about optimising the current scheme, as is known by the current media law, namely supporting the media's programming content and developing their technical infrastructure through public calls, based on the public interest currently being implemented within the Ministry of Culture. The current aim of ensuring the plurality of media content, which is in the public interest, will be much easier and more transparent through the uniform regulation and financing of the programming content of the media. As part of the expert committee to propose to the Minister the allocation of funds under the annual call for proposals, it will no longer be possible to engage people who are interested in the decisions of this Commission. In the context of the financing of the programming content of the media, funding of radio and television programmes will also be taken into account, which are of particular importance by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which partially repealed Article 82 of the Media Act, without a stable source of revenue. Activity, in particular the organisation of programmes with the status of a local, regional or student radio or television programme, cannot be judged within the framework of public service. As is known, all programmes that have gained status are private enterprises, where the governance and public control mechanisms mentioned above are not established. The financing from the RTV contribution for those reasons would also not be justified. The financing of radio and television programmes of local, regional and student status can only be regulated in the context of financing public interest in the field of media, as these programmes are among the programmes of particular importance for the achievement of public interest in the field of media, in the context of non-profit programmes and programmes of RTV Slovenia. The public interest in the media is determined by the media law. Article 4 of this Act provides that the exercise of the right of citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia shall be of public interest in the field of the media and shall then include all of them, including the exercise of the right to public information and information, the preservation of Slovenian national identity, the promotion of cultural creativity in the field of the media, the culture of public dialogue, the consolidation of the rule of law and the social state and the development of education and science. The law provides in the same article that the Republic of Slovenia shall support the media in the dissemination of programme content that contributes to the realization of public interest. These support will be equally extended through public calls to the media, irrespective of status or way of dissemination. In view of the provisions of the Constitutional Court and of the above-mentioned facts, the only possibility is for the financing of the programme content of local, regional and student programmes to be regulated by the Media Act. The Ministry proposes funding arrangements for the financing of the programme content of the media, which, due to the substantial budgetary resources allocated to it, also places particular importance on the beneficiaries of the programme's status, some additional commitments that will contribute to the dedicated and qualitative use of public funds to this end. The bill below, of course, also mentions problems. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Minister, please be careful in time. You're overstepping it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Just a sentence. Areas, so the bill is still talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Minister, in 15 seconds, I owe you a break from this place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you for understanding. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be given by Member Majda Širc, the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	Mr. Secretary, colleague and colleague! The Media Act is one of the more sensitive laws, as it can expand or narrow the area of autonomy of the public word. Due to all the experience we have with this government and its generally successful appetites in managing the media space, caution is necessary, and if some warning words and later corrections will be made only for the historical memory, which some might want, as has been done, and could also go to the historically questionable memory report of the US Foreign Ministry on the state of human rights in our country in the field of the media, which has seriously circled our space, which our government has taken with the view that it is better to look into its environment and avoid ours. However, the degree of democracy is also measured by the openness and independence of the media. That is why, in the past, when it came to amending the basic media law, we had a long and broad discussion. She didn't just go to the post office like she did in this marriage. In fact, we spent so much time with her that then we ran out of time and that this discussion continued with a new political set. In the majority of the segment that we have discussed, that is to say, solutions that touch on a clearer process in increasing ownership and management shares have also taken into account, and with this part of this proposal of the media law we do not have any problems now. However, the new government was not only interested in this segment, in the media, in this undoubtedly important potential tool of governance, it is much more interested in and should only touch those disputed solutions that are built into this law for us. State support to the media first. The bill does not, however, meet with a plurilated fund for media pluralisation, which, as previously planned, would be managed by an administrative committee composed of all representatives of parliamentary parties and led by a minister. We are facing a different solution, with literal state support for the media, which we believe is no less innocent. The state will co-finance the media in a way that the Minister will have [[Minister in the hands of Mefisto, one billion to be distributed to the media]] Share with the help of the opinions of the people to be set up [[set up, and by means of analyses to be ordered by him]] Ordered. As I have said before, he will also be able to publish if he writes corrections longer than notices, his own texts in these media. Yesterday's Minister, Mr Damian, I asked, in the context of the question of parliament, "Does the support of the liberal and market economy agree with media subsidies, and does such support mean greater dependence on the state?" Mr ex said, "I agree with you that subsidisation or dependence on the state is not the best." He continued his unfortunate case with Harry Potter, but he insisted on not supporting something that could create dependence. Let me stress that assistance to the media area in the form of indirect aid and incentives is useful. In the Liberal Democracy, however, we do not advocate direct forms that we would like to describe and perhaps further develop in the discussion. State support to the media, as enshrined in the law, stems from the assumption that the media do not represent balanced political positions, and here is the main problem. One of the priority criteria for the distribution of state aid to the media, particularly printed, is the political vats. So at the starting point, whether the media represent the opposition's positions and positions in a balanced way. In practice, this can mean that a commission commissioner will weigh who is more left and who is more right, not who has more cultural or educational priorities, who cares about deficits and who has redundancies, who opens a wide field of reflection and who closes them, etc. Lawmakers understand pluralisation by regulating content within the media, but not by allowing as many different and varied media landscapes as possible. Why should we say criteria - I apologize if I repeat, but it is necessary why the criteria on the importance of maintaining national cultural identity appear only as a criterion for co-financing radio and television programmes, but not as a press? Why? Why the criteria for ensuring the principle of gender equality and the application of tolerance apply only in programmes of local regional, student or non-profit-making status. Why not somewhere else? I have no idea. It just seems that the tailor has been adding something together, putting something up and throwing a few sands in his eyes, so it seems. In this regard, let me stress that there is already a fund in the existing law for the development and support of audio-visual media and also independent producers. This fund was indeed a fund because it was also supposed to be fueled by operator charges. No one has analyzed the effects of this fund. I agree with the idea that so far the distribution of financial assistance to the media for a particular purpose, not with the same purpose as now, has not always been correct enough, but, however, why the effects of this fund have not been analysed, why no one has said what has happened to the never-collected fees, etc. It is clear that other analyses have been carried out that provide new criteria for the State to pay and possibly even reward the media in its interests. Let me also touch the right to correction. We know that after the new amendment, it will be possible to go beyond the notification to which it relates and we believe that it is undoubtedly a matter of playing with constitutional rights, as it extends to the right to exclusive access to the media space. In the future, if this law is adopted, it will no longer be possible to reject the required amendment, which will be more extensive and will show other and contrary facts or circumstances, as demonstrated by conscience itself. The complaint procedure will be more difficult for the affected, but it would be very important to hear why the right to a longer or extended response or correction is being extended. If we search through memory, we can answer it in part. How many times has it been, especially from political backgrounds, to hear that the media has not been quick to publish opinions that you have changed the headlines, that you have been giving people wrong messages? Nothing easier than to ensure a legal possibility that an undisciplined commentator, an editorial, a cartoonist, an essayist, a witch doctor gets the real truth back. And that next time he'd be careful how critical he was and how critical he was. Certainly the right to the truth, which is a fundamental right, the urgency of correction and the response, is more sensitive than it seems at first sight. It can run with freedom of expression and editorial autonomy. Now this is happening with this proposal. Perhaps it would be necessary in this law to introduce a chapter on the ombutsman for the media. Let me quickly mention others, for us disputed solutions: access to information. Seven working days would be appropriate to answer the press question. It's probably too long and it would be appropriate to shorten it. It is also problematic that in all cases it will not be possible to exercise the constitutionally protected right to appeal. Penalties or fines have been changed in an incomprehensible way. The minimum penalties are ten times lower for important substantive offences, such as violations of advertising, sufficient programming shares and the like. In the meantime, twice as much as so far will have to be paid for minor infringements, such as if the issuer does not notify the change of address. Who understands that? And the fines are high, from 25 to 50 million. The issue of Slovenian music will probably need to be considered on that point that touches the third Ars radio programme. We do not understand why local radio and television programs reduce the share of their own production of local content in local radio and television stations from 30% to 20%. Is that reasonable enough, we ask ourselves, but at the same time, why lower the criteria while at the same time funding these programmes? The section on protection against pornography is also sensitive. It introduces some new interpretation of the concept of sexuality. I can talk about this more later. The fact that the responsible editor of the third parliamentary programme is not necessary is also questionable. Of course, there is also a controversial solution for us, what is called the broadcast world, which is called the National Assembly, as is the RTV Slovenia Program Council, when it is established by Kviaz, is a political will, while the Broadcasting Council has been appointed by the University, the Cultural Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, the Society of Journalists and so on. But it's not hard to analyze this solution, and I'm not going to repeat it. Let me just conclude that this law needs a lot of corrections, and we will table amendments, even though we know that some night meeting, as has happened in the past, can reject them in a brutal way and with blind ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Before I say five key comments by the Social Democrats on the proposal for a law, allow me to take a look at it from the point of view of the bill, which concerns the entire Slovenian public, so first of all the comparison between the media law and the RTV law from the point of view of the drafting of the bill. We advocate the importance of the pre-legislative procedure, which we imagine should run as dialogue, not as an invitation to comment, but not as an answer, added to the comments sent. If anyone thinks that a public presentation of the opinions on this flaw in the preparation of the law has not warned, then he did not want to hear it. Indeed, it is possible to claim and search for dates from when the law was published online, and another story is when it begins to examine in detail who, how, when, and for what it was invited to do and how it was answered or not. Now, allow me to touch the five points that my colleague and colleagues will discuss further. The first position we have is a comment on the introductory part of the law. While it cannot be affected by amendments, it is, by its rules of procedure, an important part of the law that allows it to assess how the articles have achieved the announced objectives in the introduction, the views which they are. And with this introductory analytical work, we are dissatisfied with the Social Democrats. Second point. There is no international comparison of media co-financing. Third time. The criteria for the allocation of funds shall be wholly imposed and irresistible enough to allow for the total arbitraryity of the commission chosen by the Minister. Fourth time. The regulation of the third RTV Slovenia programme is exempted from the provisions applicable to other media, so that no one is responsible for the transmission of programme content. And the fifth comment touches on media concentration regulation. And now let me get to the specific points in more detail. The assessment that the overall state of plurality in the media in Slovenia is not the best, is not supported with anything. Otherwise, the Institute for Revitalisation of Civil Society and the Faculty for Postgraduate European Studies are listed, and the newspaper and publishing company Nova revija, but we do not learn from the analytical review what such an assessment is based on. It is not even possible to determine how they were targeted and what the effects of the incentives to the media so far have been. There is neither any research on indicators of media diversity in Slovenia nor the diversity of programming content in the media. If this had been done, then the thesis would have collapsed that the plurality of the media space in Slovenia is not. Therefore, there is no analysis of the purposes and effects of the current system of State support to the media, while at the same time the system of award generally remains similar to the previous system. If the difference in the allocation of funds is so negligible, the request for justification is all the more justified. There is no regulation in some European countries, there is no mention of co-financing of the media from the state budget, except that the criteria and criteria are indicated. We are aware that the media space is also linked to specific, cultural, social conditions, with different reading habits, that Sweden and Norway cannot be compared to the reading of printed media with the reading of Slovenian media. Also, the priority given to the media in Scandinavian countries is that people prefer local media and read national printed media as a complement to local media, and it is unlikely that it will hold up for us. It is true, however, that I am relying on the 1997 study of the European Media Institute, which will help me to respond to some experience with direct and indirect granting of subsidies. The study covers cases from Austria, France, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany. Let me just make general observations. Austria knows direct and indirect subsidies and has clearly developed criteria. Let me say that the media must provide political, economic or general cultural information that is not just local. There's nothing to say about the left-hand side. In France, they get to know subsidies mostly in daily newspapers. In Norway, respect for the code of the Association of Editors and the Association of Norwegian Publishers is essential for the subsidy. In Sweden, subsidies stopped the death of newspapers. Germany also knows the indirect form, it means favourable loans, discounts in distribution and postage. The Netherlands is aware of the State Press Fund and what this study finds in its conclusions. He says: Despite efforts to prevent the trend of the death of newspapers through subsidies, which is why subsidies have been established, this process continues. Many commentators agree that subsidies are just an attempt to prevent the inevitable. In a number of cases, subsidies have been shown to strengthen those media that have already dominated the market. Some experts also argue that subsidies to newspapers take away the ability to become economically stronger and to use new media technologies. The issue of the state's impact on the media with subsidies is also a matter of concern. While no one claims to be a direct press press instrument, there are some concerns as to whether in some cases the allocation of funds has been politically motivated in Austria, France and Sweden. Although there are some signs that subsidies are falling, they still remain an important part of media support. Critics believe that they constitute budgetary burden subsidies and have no positive, long-term effects. Their argument is that a newspaper that will not adapt to the market will fail with or without a subsidy. Nevertheless, it appears that the subsidies in Western Europe are to be maintained, and it is difficult to ensure neutrality and fair distribution of aid. It could state how the proposed granting of subsidies or the distribution of aid from the otherwise abandoned idea of a special fund in the Slovenian case is the farthest criticised criterion by which some media should be balanced in order to obtain a subsidy. Who will measure how this will measure, however, is known to be elsewhere in the world, and Sweden, because some people like to refer to it, knows which policy option belongs to which of the journals. We are more wondering why we should not subsidise those programming content that none of the publishers satisfy in a given environment in relation to the needs of people. Why media publishers should not rather worry about editorial and journalistic independence and credibility, why the subsidy should not be linked to those media that provide more professional journalists. It is a matter of finding that only the address and nothing else can be traced in a wide variety of media. A special chapter is the third RTV programme of Slovenia, which will not have a responsible editor. In accordance with the provisions of this Article, it will be regulated either by the leadership of Parliament, the presidents of working bodies or parliamentary services and no one will be responsible for the publication. This means that whoever has an influence on the regulation of the parliamentary channel and is not written anywhere, who it is, but we can think, will have unlimited opportunities for manipulation. The direct transfer does not mean that the programme does not need to be regulated and responsible for this work. However, the fifth observation on the concentration of ownership in the media will be answered in the next debate. If the amendments do not change some of the solutions in the law, in the media, then this is certainly not a bill that would benefit from our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Emissary Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, we support changes and updates to the media law. We believe that changes to the media law will have a positive impact on media development. Among other things, the transparency of the ownership structure, the prevention of concentration of ownership, the new law introduces the nullity of contracts concluded for the purchase of media without the prior consent of the Ministry of Culture. By now, the media had been able to purchase without the Ministry’s consent, and the owners had obtained their consent subsequently after the purchase. The new law provides for the prior agreement of the Ministry. In New Slovenia, we also support the introduction of budgetary resources to ensure plurality and democraticism of the information media in general, plurality and democraticity of programme content, and in particular for the development and co-financing of programme content of radio and television programmes of particular importance. It is the regional and local radio and television programmes of particular importance that enrich Slovenia's media space and bring news and events that are close to people. By providing budgetary resources for this purpose, we also live up to the promise we made to the media at the time of the adoption of the Public RTV Act in order to ensure this in the media law. This is the 3% of the public RTV contribution that has been challenged by a Constitutional Court decision, from the total budget item will go to at least 40% for these purposes. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the Ministry of Culture will be able to appoint a commission that will properly share these funds. Certainly, there must not be a story from the past when the chairman of the Media Commission was a person who was at the same time the director of the radio station and ran for public funds decided by that same commission. The next thing I'm going to touch and it's at a public presentation and in the media, it's the right to make amends. The new proposal, which has triggered violent reactions among journalists, suggests that the correction of opinions such as correcting alleged false or false statements in the published notice, and may also indicate the facts and circumstances by which the affected person contests or, with a view to contesting, substantially complements the references in the published text. It is also essential that the correction should be published in the same place or place, in the same broadcast, in the next issue. We are convinced that there are many misrepresentations in the media, also due to insufficient or misunderstood information and that such allegations are not malicious. On the other hand, we cannot get rid of the belief that in some media there are quite a few challenges, nicely said, unverified, untrue information, sometimes even malicious, and these are touched by the article. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that if we are to do something wrong, we must correct it in the most equivalent way possible. I think it's one of the sayings, but I don't remember the first part, it says, punches hurt, words kill. I'm sure that's not what any man wants. Another chapter in the law that talks about the protection and rights of children and young people in the media seems important to us in New Slovenia. Children and young people are most addicted to electronic media, especially by listening to radio and even more to television, as well as using the Internet. The youngest start with cartoons, a little bit bigger on the Internet, what all comes up on the Internet. The fact is that there is too much violence and other inappropriate content in the media that negatively affects the development of young people and children. Article 21 prohibits pornography and violence that could seriously harm the mental, moral or physical development of children and young people, but is permitted to display it in information, education and artistic programmes on the basis of the aesthetic and ethical criteria that must be accepted by the programme providers themselves. We are convinced that the aesthetic and ethical codes of various publishers are similar. Some imagine that sexuality and violence are normal for children, at least on offer. A warning, a triangle or similar visual sign to be prescribed by the Minister, will, otherwise, make adults aware that this content is inappropriate for young people and the question is how the child will react. What is forbidden is the most moving, the most towed, and if the child is alone, it will be difficult to judge what is appropriate for him. We certainly believe that the fifth and sixth paragraphs of the same article, which includes violence and sexuality after midnight, make sense. Printed and electronic media are classified on higher shelves in trade, not accessible to children and young people. With regard to access to such content in electronic media, however, it is stated in this Article's explanation that prior to access to pornographic content, it is necessary to require in some way exceptional consent to enter or confirm that the user is of age. In New Slovenia, we believe that young people are too exposed to violence, over-involved with electronic media showing such content, and that there are no boundaries, and this is reflected in our society, such as peer violence, alcohol, drugs, suicide. That is why we expect more order and more control in this area, but above all we want the media to bring correct information, to educate, to be a pleasant source of entertainment, to help raise and educate, especially young people and young people, as they often replace overworked and absent parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Member Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! There is probably no one among us who would not agree that the media has extraordinary power and influence. Their social, social, even educational role is increasingly important. As a result, there is also a whole type of danger and the possibility that the media or certain stakeholders would even abuse this media power and influence. Therefore, the plurality of media is of paramount importance. The plurality of the media ensures that each individual can obtain legal, objective information, as respect for the human right to express and to timely and impartial information is of particular importance. The media must allow different opinions and views to be presented and at the same time allow different individuals and groups to be presented in the media. The drafter of the media law in the introduction of the law notes that the situation in Slovenia in the television and radio market and in the market of printed media, as regards the number of these media and their coverage, is satisfactory. Much more problems have been encountered by Slovenian media in ensuring the diversity of media content, largely due to the lack of co-financing of audiovisual projects and co-financing of the creation of programming content and the development of technical infrastructure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the proposal for a media law follows objectives such as media plurality, the protection of Slovenian language and the protection of children and adolescents. An important novelty is also the regulation of the powers and status of the Broadcasting Council and of the postal and electronic communications agencies. The bill also defines the right to correction, which we think is particularly important. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as one of human rights and fundamental freedoms guarantees freedom of expression. Local and regional radio and television programmes are of particular importance to the realization of freedom of expression and the right to information. Their importance is also recognised by the bill's proposer, who wrote that these programmes are in the public interest of Slovenia. The financing of radio and television programmes with the status of local, regional or student radio or television programmes was regulated by the Media Act in Article 82. This Article is intended to provide 3% of the RTV contribution for these programmes. In 2004, however, the Constitutional Court annulled this article of the law and thus caused these programmes to run out of a very important source of revenue. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been alerting this problem all the time. We have thus made an explicit effort to ensure that the financing of local and regional programmes is managed immediately and in a way that will restore reliable and regular income for these programmes. We are convinced that local, regional and student radio and television programmes, with a status of special importance, create conditions for more coherent regional development, support the satisfaction and enforcement of the specific interests of people in a particular area and include programme content related to the work and life of national, ethnic and religious communities living in certain environments. They are particularly concerned about the preservation of tradition, human tradition and doctrines. In border environments, the daily contact of Slovenian minorities with the native nation is indispensable, and among Slovenes in place they are also very well received and well listened. In all local and regional RTV programmes with status, these and others represent an important content of at least 30% of programming time for the local and regional communities. The preparation of these contents is technically difficult and significantly more expensive than the content transmitted by so-called commercial radio and television programmes. It is precisely due to the price competitiveness of the latter in the advertising market that local, regional and student RTV programmes, with a status of special importance only through advertising revenues, cannot maintain the required content structure. In view of the unregulated situation, there was a great danger that this part of the radio and television programmes would still be in existing ownership networks, which we believe cannot be in the interest of Slovenia's balanced economic and cultural development. It is also important that all RTV programs have a special importance outside the capital and are an important part of the media image of Slovenia, which would be significantly impoverished by their programme transformation. More than half of the issuers of these programmes operate or are established in the country's geographically threatened and border areas. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, when adopting the RTV Act, we tried to resolve the issue of 3% of the RTV contributions lost by programmes of particular importance on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision. At that time, we proposed to the National Assembly that, in order to avoid the cessation of the operation of issuers of local, regional and student programmes with a status of special importance, it should ensure survival with support from a public source. Unfortunately, such a solution was not acceptable under the RTV Act. Based on the efforts of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposal for a media law has a solution that will certainly allow for the preservation of programmes of particular importance. Further consideration of the bill's proposal, however, is likely to require even more concrete definition of the budget allocations for the programmes mentioned above. Further consideration of the draft law will also need to address certain uncertainties that have arisen at public hearing. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for a media law is suitable for further consideration, as amendments to the law will contribute to the development of the Slovenian media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, his associates! The media is power, the media is power and the media is saved and one is alone. This is a statement that I hope to claim to hold for one political option and one political option, either far right or far left. No media has ever been apolitical. Never. The writing media shows and speaks against the position, works and lives with the opposition. The media that writes, talks, draws, whatever it is, against the opposition, is the government media. That's how it was, that's how it was, and that's how it's gonna be, but let's all go after this stage, every half hour, and say what we want. Why is the media law such an interesting subject, why do we deal with it so many times, why do we talk so much about it, why are we changing the media law and so on? Because the media is the only judge and the prosecutor. The only one. Because the media is an autonomy. And he does what he wants, whenever he wants, whatever he wants. And all of a sudden, colleagues and colleagues, this truth needs to be told to all the media, and then they don't want me to be Bogdan Borovic and the Slovenian National Party like it or not, I don't care. We heard in a speech, in a presentation of positions, one of my previous speakers said that it was necessary through the media to bring the truth and put the truth to the plan. Colleagues and colleagues! Who among you can tell me the truth now? The truth is the truth, and the truth is whoever it is that makes it up. Whoever it is, especially the media. These are the facts. Those who have ever worked in the media, you know how beautiful and wonderful it is to write, say, this and this one is supposed to be, this and this one is supposed to be, they say that, from sources close to us, we know that it is or that it is. That's a great story. They can write the left and right newspapers, the affected person is so far and from now on, and even though we will talk about the corrections as much as we want, we can complain. I'll say it after home a little bit tomorrow, because they said in the judicial branch of power, who specifically accused you of something. The media said, we didn't specifically accuse, we wrote, "We should have heard." But they heard maybe from Bogdan Barovich about his opponent just like he doesn't like him, or that he's supposed to do something. But it's written right now, whether it's a serious newspaper or not. Whether it's television or not, whether it's one or them, at the national level or at the local or regional level. So far, we have had article 31, which has spoken of the right to correction. I have personally experienced that, despite the reference to the existing law and the right to remedy it, I have not experienced this. I didn't because the editor said I wouldn't give it to him because I don't like Barovich. Yeah, nice or ugly. That was in the former authorities. I do not expect it to be much better now, but I am surprised that we are now talking so much and even saying that it is unconstitutional if the right to correction is given again after the 31st article of the previous law, which may be longer than the article. And yet, since we're all people, let's think a little bit about if someone writes, I'll put myself back on the case best so that no one gets hurt. Bogdan Barovic brought weapons to the National Assembly. Under the existing law, I have the right to write: Bogdan Barovic did not bring weapons to Parliament. And that's my fix now. What about Bogdan Barovic bringing weapons to parliament, because, for the first time, he has an arms license and thus the right to carry them. Second time for safety. Third time because he passed his exam and knows he can't leave his gun in the car. Itd. I shouldn't have written this under the previous law, we shouldn't have published it, and they didn't have to publish it. I'm just saying what we think is right in the Slovenian National Party. And the right is a correction, but it is true, and even in the sixth indent of Article 31, the amendment of this law clearly states that every editor has the right to say no, in so far as it is. However, these corrections in the sixth indent concern only sources of information which are official sources, i.e. the Government Information Office or the institutions which are required to provide information. We're talking about individuals here, and we're going to be, we're going to be, we're going to be, and we're going to be always, through newspapers, we're going to be arguing about whether or not we're going to have a chance. It is also true that if we use this on average and around, if we don’t read the bill accurately, then we will have 12 or I apologize, for example, we will have 14 copies of a newspaper because one newspaper will write something, and this same newspaper will issue just another edition, in which it will be corrected itself, that is true. But correction is needed, the right to correction must be given to every human being, and it is right that the amendment of the media law is made. We have a press hearing, we have a press union, I'm interested in how many of these two institutions are doing, and how, because they're the strongest and most justified and they're obliged to find the truth that we just talked about, the objective truth. All journalists know what are journalistic, what is the report, what is the comment, but each of these types has its own rules that journalists must respect in any media. But they are not, and they are not, nor will they be, so it is a shame to say that this law is now written in one authority so much more, and the former power was not. Let's face it, and let's just say it's true. And another is the way to finance, which is true. If we have more resources for certain media at local, regional and other levels, and if these funds are determined by a certain commission and are determined by a government or a competent minister, the issue of objectivity or objectivity may be raised here. That's the truth, too. And this objectivity or objectivity is as much or less than that money. In this part, we have indeed looked at the Slovenian National Party very objectively at the proposal of this law, I think, Mr Minister, that it is necessary to be very careful. In the part where it's called the commission that studies and allocates funds to whom. Because the charges in this case may be justifiable or unjustifiable, and we are back there. One medium will write that there are justifiable accusations, I will say in my mind, colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, that some local or regional radio station has received more funding because the director there is a friend of someone who is a friend of someone who is a member, I do not know, of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's gonna be a lot of charges like that. And for each side there will be some truth. But this truth, we must be aware, we have also determined. We called the government in the National Assembly. And we have to trust the government or write an untrustworthy one. And the government is obliged to report to the National Assembly and to act fairly and properly, including when appointing a commission to determine where the funds will go to the media. We have a sensitive period of local elections ahead of us. At this point, it may be said that a certain part of this law or amendment has been written in order to give some local, regional, such and other radio, television stations or newspapers this part of the funding that is given in addition to buying local elections or propaganda for local elections. These rumors will be huge, and the political options that are currently in power will be at stake. But let's be honest and look in the face, it would be the same if there was another position in power. The exact same story will take place. It is therefore necessary to amend this Media Act. No one says that the saved are 100 percent ideal. I am proud and honest that there are changes in this law that give more emphasis to the Slovenian language. Slovenia is an equal member of the EU, one big country, but we have our own language, ladies and gentlemen. And it is right to play more Slovenian music at all levels. And it is right to hear and see more Slovenian words, as stipulated by this law, thank God. And it is right, as far as the Slovenian language is concerned, and I hope that this law will bring about that we will no longer watch TV Koper, for example, which broadcasts 70%, but nothing bad, thank God, we respect, we are one of the countries in Europe that respect relations, the minority of Italian, Austrian, Hungarian, and it is right that the program, but ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia Television Koper sees most Slovenes and deserves, even if it speaks Italian, Slovenian subtitles. Like those 30% of the Italians in Cyprus deserve Italian subtitles at work when the Slovenian programme is. And I hope this marriage brings it. Don't let anyone say we're chauvinists again, and I don't know what else. Slovenians deserve to watch TV Koper by having at least subtitles if the program is in Italian. This was stipulated by law. Even on the radio, we heard how any foreign speech, even Croatian, was, even though we know that we all understand this language, is subtitled. But Coper TV has been playing for a number of years without subtitles. It's not fair to Slovenes and Slovenians. And this marriage, I hope it brings it. Of course, it's another question, the issue of frequency sharing. I agree, this issue in this marriage is a matter of concern. The frequency allocation will be in the hands of the APEC, the director of the APEC will be appointed by the government. I still hope and trust, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, and in my own I say that the Government will know that this Director will be responsible and responsible for doing his basic mission and distributing frequencies to radio and television stations by law, I stress, by law, not by political affiliation, hope and desire. Doubts are possible that someone appointed by the government as director will, of course, follow some instructions that will not be correct. That's why we have laws. And I think we have a law that specifies exactly what and who needs to do and has to have a frequency. To the extent that these laws are not available, it is our duty, the duty of the opposition, who doubts whether it is justified to appoint the director of this agency, to check whether these laws exist or not, and to the extent that we do not propose them, to protect the uniform distribution of frequencies through laws. And why are we afraid again and going back to the base? Because the truth is the way someone shapes it, and it's no different. The real truth is, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, it isn't, and it won't. The media could be a little more or a little less plural. Plural means multi-party, but they never will; they never will and will not. There's only one example I'd like to give. You probably all remember Orwell's drama, I'm talking about the power of the media, where they actually played drama, the game of how aliens came to Earth. What happened? Fear and panic, people believed. [[Back-up advertising.]] Drama by Orson Wells, I'm sorry. People in Slovenia read a lot too. It's not like some people think people are a little ignorant or they don't want to read. They read a lot. People are very interested in what is happening in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, and the world. People are looking at us and listening. The media has incredible power. And such a law is, in fact, walking in the thinst and longest ropes high above us. Just one wrong step, and there can be a disaster. It is therefore right that we are talking about the law and the amendment of the law. It is therefore right that both sides point to the mistakes they are making. And it's also right to listen to these mistakes, and that whoever we say is wrong, on the other hand, we get a response, yes, you're right, we'll fix it. And on the contrary, even on the other hand, those who have written the law must have so much moral and obedience and say, yes, this is such a sensitive area, and on the other hand you have something right in this or that part. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal of the Media Act, of course, by sincerely reminding those in this Chamber who are here and who are listening to some shortcomings where the government is directly involved, where they can happen on the assumption of anything, we appeal and ask, let us consider this, let us change if anything is done or let us be honest, let us follow the legal provisions, and let us at least be in this area for all equal. You know, eight years from now, four years from now, I don't know, the political picture is going to turn around, which is good in this country, and no one will be so short-sighted that he will write himself something that will hit him hard on the other side of his face in four, eight, 12 years from now. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much. So far, it has been said that it would probably be better if we were able to hold more debates on the law that is now the subject of reflection. I agree with this, because discussions are what makes it possible to find new, other, different solutions, which also allows for a change of viewpoints, which probably also allows for a convergence of views on individual problems. But there's still time to discuss it. Today is one of the opportunities with the five-hour debate announced and there will be opportunities for us to think about this law and individual solutions. Let me say that this law has been the subject of debate, not in exactly this form, before the signing of the coalition treaty. The truth is, even then, DeSUS did not want flags with some excess and did not help to play any winning fanfare. We have had doubts, we have them today, but we believe that these concerns can also be addressed, although it is true that we cannot actually contribute anything new to what has already been heard. The key points to be discussed were also raised by other parliamentary groups. It is our position, that is, the position of the DeSUS Group, that despite our concerns, the law is properly spelled out so that it can be dealt with, and we are saying this by counting on it to be able to find enough strength to make any necessary changes. The part of the news that the marriage brings can be supported without hindrance. Part of the news or new proposals are those that we support in part, and some things we reject or are not acceptable to us, are ripe for further thought, perhaps even for rejection. Support from our side is clear when we are talking about the need to make it material, financially possible for the media to be able to inform citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, including voters and voters as much as possible. Support from our side certainly applies to all those complements that plethora that Slovenian words, Slovenian music and other Slovenian creativity represent as much as possible, not only production, but our creativity. Support also goes in the direction that the concentration of ownership in various media must undoubtedly be limited due to the known consequences that excessive concentration could have caused. We are also so solidarityd that the deadline for the necessary information that journalists need from us must be as short as possible, and we agree that journalists and editors must be independent, autonomous, and yet we know that we do not all have the same thoughts in our heads. We may also be different in this regard. The thoughts we are talking about are the concerns about pluralisation and financing of this pluralisation. We certainly imagine that some are different. I certainly don't imagine this pluralisation as it was supposed to be, especially political pluralisation. Then maybe it's meant to be somewhere else, not in the cultural field. More importantly, I think it is necessary to pluralise this space in a way that we need different content, subjects, newspapers, press houses in general to find enough space and support to create this media information space that we as a service to citizens and citizens urgently need if we want to monitor what is going on if we want to be involved in this decision, because it has been said that the media and the information they provide are very powerful. We doubt that it is very often necessary to repeat how to ensure that the stakes are now democratic to the media. I don't even know what it means most precisely to be democratic media, if we know what democracy means as a procedure, if we know that most of democracy counts and I don't want to explicitly or decisively say that it does. But if it means that the media will write those who have the majority who, after some procedure, have the power of influence, then it seems to me that this kind of democratisation, under the terms, will be very questionable. I think that mistakes, if the media now meant, could mean support for the majority or support, even more dramatically to those who won the elections. I hope there is no one in mind, even though it is about the democratisation of the media in the materials that the ministry has given us. We imagine that this law on media is actually a shell in which we pour the content into which we meet it and it would be good to be subtle, so that we will not spoil the form with any over-contaminated contents. It certainly cannot be, for example, a criterion, criteria for obtaining funds, at least that is how we think, whether a project with which to run on a call for proposals is one that will be marked by objective, balanced representation of political action positions. If it comes first, then it is already per definition and political action and will not guarantee pluralism. Probably not political either. In particular, if we read ahead and find that it is primarily pluralisation in the sense that positions and opposition positions will be presented. This may not be the first and most important criteria. We feel that pluralisation is indeed everything else, especially when the cultural ministry discusses this and prepares the law and we will strive to move the matter a little bit in this direction. It is also problematic for us, of course, what is also problematic for some others, that the Commission will be appointed in the way it is envisaged that this Commission can then, in accordance with these criteria and criteria, which we do not really know now, choose who will be the beneficiary of the funds, support, subsidies. And in theory, I can imagine, of course, because I know that there is no such medium, at least for those that I accompany, which would be completely balanced, the Commission will choose or say that MAG or Democracy or Youth, of course, cannot get these resources because it is not balanced enough. Depends on the composition of the commission. I don't take too much into the hands of some media because I practically know what's going to be in them. Or I know what's missing. And without wanting to be too prophetic, I don't mind much. When I open a newspaper, it always comes back to me. So, in my view, the fundamental problem that is being argued is not whether the media are in particular politically not plural enough, the fundamental problem is whether they are plural enough in general, or whether they have different content, different themes, sufficient opportunities for public representation. DeSUS will therefore support the ambition to continue the debate, but of course there will be a substantial number of opportunities for concreteising the Committee's concerns, which will continue to address this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Master Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! I must say that I was not yet so happy to be the last of the editorials, for all of you who spoke before me have given me an excellent basis for discussion, and I hope that you will listen to me with the same joy as I did to you. Look, earlier it was said that the media, for the government or for the opposition, and that it's essential, we just heard what's missing. In fact, all of this is not new to what has been said here. In all of this, at least as far as polytology as science is concerned, this has been long-founded and proven and can be found in books. So allow me first a few quotations on this subject. Thus Professor Kosherev clearly says that the media do not show the event, but create an image of the event, they create an image of the events in the public. So, of course, looking for the absolute truth in them is a lot or in one medium at least quite difficult to do. Much more can be found in Professor Fairfield's quotes. He made it very clear that there are also the media, which also generate political opinions, which follow political goals and which also have their own political goals, which they are trying to achieve with their power and, of course, very clearly follow from this, and this was a quote from the memory, which clearly follows that such media are not only a showcase in political arenas, but they are actors in the political arena. If any of this has been identified in any Slovenian media, it's no big deal. The second thing, which is also very important and has been established a long time ago, I will quote again what Professor Ferfilo was talking about, exactly what Mr Rezman was talking about. In view of the fact that what is systematically silenced in one medium or in certain media is sometimes more valuable than what is reported and what is reported in that medium’s editorial policy. Of course, such situations are essential if the media are merely creating an image, perhaps this thought. My colleague Leon Lojk, a well-known psychologist who teaches a lot abroad, sent me one letter during these discussions of the media law, and I can give it to you later, if you want, in which he warned of the uninterest that in Slovenia, as the most credible institutions, most people receive exactly the media. But here's one vicious circle, basically one paradox. If these media accept their information from political parties, which people accept again as very non-creditable, then there is already mathematically something wrong here. For if the original data are non-creditable, mathematics teaches that even the final sum cannot be more credible than the original data. And if people take the final effect, the final sum is more credible, then it's obviously some kind of monopoly. He is particularly aware of this problem. In case of what's essential. It's only one thing, plurality. Yes, so people have the opportunity to illuminate one event through different perspectives, through different media, if you want to, through different positions in the individual media and to actually reflect you into the entire spectrum of different opinions. Now we come to the core of the story, which, in combination, both colleagues gave excellent warning, I suppose they are reluctant, Mrs Shirca and Mrs Potrate. The first was the United States report on the situation in the field of human rights protection in Slovenia, and Mrs. Potrata based her opinion on the assumption that in Slovenia all media are plural and even stated, I quote, if certain conditions were met, "thesis would be that media plurality is not in Slovenia." But if you open this report from the U.S. Foreign Ministry, we wonder what the key message is. That in Slovenia media are not plural. As they wrote, I quote: "...in Slovenia, the media are active, they are free, independent, but they do not represent the whole spectrum of opinions." This is a special warning, their analytical findings. This is an extremely important knowledge which, of course, gives us, who for more than a decade have been alerting us to this weakness in Slovenian media, remember all the debates in all past years, including discussions, if you want to, in the last period, say, in the context of the law of RTV Slovenia. And it does not exactly give those who have acted solely with an argument of power and claimed that our situation is ideal and that it cannot be better at all that plurality is fully assured. It's not my friend! Now that the mirror has set us up by the United States Foreign Ministry in a report to which you refer yourself, you yourself acknowledge that it is credible, they have made it very clear that the main weakness is that the media do not represent the whole spectrum of political opinions. That people are aware of this, one answer has already been given in their vote under the law on RTV Slovenia, which they confirmed. Personally, I must say that I am extremely happy about this, because this knowledge has therefore come to people's minds that it is also necessary to have a critical distance to what we accept from the media. This is extremely important. This means that Slovenia, an average citizen, has already a very high level of this political knowledge and awareness in our country, despite the fact that it may not have been able to acquire it as quickly as it would have been in more plural matters. The second part of this answer to how to resolve this question, which we are reminded of with the mirror set up by our partner from abroad, is therefore hidden in the media law. Therefore, if, from this point of view, that plurality is a value that is extremely important, the only one that allows it to be fully satisfied with the constitutional provision whereby every citizen has every moment the right to correct and comprehensive information, that is to say, constitutional right if we come from it, and if we accept that plurality is a value, then we get excellent answers right in the law that is before us. The first is money, which is intended to enrich content, to pluralize the media. This solution didn't come from our herb. It was taken in Sweden, which we all like to refer to. And recently, their delegation was here. There they warned that this is very positive for them, that there is a practical consensus on this and that this solution is, in fact, somewhat comparable to what they have. Even more, they recommend that if material possibilities allow us to do so, it may increase, as their assessment is that our market is relatively small and therefore, of course, the survival of the new media or of the already existing smaller media is even more difficult. This is one of the most important messages. It was also a very interesting note in view of the debates over the last period. It was the Head of Delegation who told me that only two smaller parties were actually opposed to these media pluralisation measures. And look at the shit, these are exactly the two parties that control the regulation of the two biggest media, saying who jumps in with us when you mention media pluralization funds. This is a very interesting image. The second issue addressed again from the same value point of view of this law is the issue of concentration. After the new, things will be much more transparent and further concentration should no longer come after this law has been enacted. The third thing, which is also very important, is the issue of protecting children from potentially harmful content. I'm sure this isn't about any restrictions. Surely, apart from what goes into extremes and what is regulated by some other legislation and what is also regulated by international rules, it is practically everything, but in a way that puts these things in a European comparable place. It's not just that I think the government has found the right solution. For the last time, representatives of some associations have also given a very positive opinion on the change in this regime and, if anything else needs to be cleared, this will be our task in the next stage of the procedure. And now the last thing that matters again in terms of plurality is the right to correction and answer. This is a constitutional right with us. I must say that I do not know where else we would have this right both, the right to correction and the answer written in the constitution itself. But it's in Slovenia. And that's the first thing you need to know when you're making international comparisons about solutions in other legal systems. Since this is a matter of constitutional law, it is therefore worth all the attention and respect. Why is this right so important? Because in this way comes, as Matthew Krivic said somewhere, in the media also a second view, another glance. So those who would not have come to the media with only the original information are also, in terms of plurality, the right to remedy and answer is a very important right. This remains entirely at the side of these debates, at least until this point. What this means is translated into a value star, for which we have decided to be plural, is that in this way we increase the spectrum of different opinions brought by a single medium and therefore the image that can be created by a reader, a reader, a viewer, a viewer, a listener, a listener in this way is more objective. When, in practice, does the exercise of the right to correction occur? If someone's been wronged. If someone is a victim of an unfair, biased, flawed, depraved, if you want to, reporting, then he has the right to stop if the information has reached into his rights, the interest to write or require the publication of a correction or an answer. The Constitution gives this right very broad and gives it in the chapter on human rights. I pay particular attention to this because, in this section of Article 15, it does not permit any marriage of these rights, not even with an excuse to be restricted by the same constitution in any way in the meaning of that word, let us say with some other rights or freedoms. This is very important. And the point is that, as legislators, we have to make this constitutional norm, which also binds us as long as it is in the constitution, in an appropriate way, we have to pour it into law. In a public debate, which was excellently successful a few weeks ago, some knowledge that had almost not been made public was extremely important. This is because the right to correction has not always been respected. This was not only claimed by those who have had a negative experience themselves, even by the president of the Slovenian Society behind this microphone. This is very important, because you know what that means in practice? This means that one constitutional right has not been respected - so some people in our country have not always been given the opportunity to exercise a constitutional right. This is something that should concern everyone in this country who is responsible for drafting and implementing legislation. Look, when we talk about the right to correction, of course, it is clear that justice must be done in such a way that the victim is wronged, even in reality corrected. It is therefore extremely important that the victim also has the right to state the arguments by which he denies or with a view to denying it, but to make a substantial difference in the light of an event, some information which was originally provided in the media. There must be room for that. Because if you're not right, denial doesn't mean anything. It can even mean that this formal right becomes a new injustice. You know why? Because if you write about someone, let's say, I don't know, this one, and this one has been, unfortunately, a lot of time in Slovenia, doing extremely casually when you operate on the concept of pedophilia -- this one and this one was involved in some pedophilic affair, then he must also have room to say that he was just acting as a prosecutor in some case where he was persecuting those who had committed this heinous act, not just saying no, no, that's not true. Because if he only has so much space to say it, it's not true, then of course people will understand it. Yeah, what, he's clearly gonna deny it, as far as he's concerned, but where there's smoke, there's fire, some of it's true. In short, there must also be room for arguments by which an individual can confirm what he refers to as a correction or a response to basic information. Only in this way can the injustice that has been done to him really be rectified, and that is essential. We therefore fully support the law in the SDS Group of Members. We are also pleased with the information provided to us in the broad public debate that has already taken place in the public debate. In many ways, this information is quite identical to those received by the Ministry, as far as we have been informed by them, in what seven-month public debate was held, for how long was the debate on the issue of this law within the Ministry. First, it was described shorter and then extended and extended and new and new comments arrived. You have also heard how many of these comments have been taken into account. I must say that I find it extremely unusual that that comment, which therefore concerns the correction of some injustice concerning freedom of speech, because the right to information is indivisiblely combined with the right to freedom of speech - and before that I have clearly argued clearly enough why it comes with the help of a correction to the media also that part of the information that would not otherwise come. Therefore, the picture is more objective, and the media, if you want, also more plural, covers a wider range of opinions and in this way we also meet the response to that warning from the United States Foreign Ministry that the media in Slovenia did not tolerate the full range of opinions. This is extremely important, so the law before us is not only good, but in terms of ensuring constitutionality, in terms of ensuring information, which is a constitutional right, is also necessary, in order to be adopted, it will, of course, determine enough time and space to examine and verify that everything is written in the best possible way. I am confident that in the argumented debate, which I hope and expect to take place in a different way than at the time of the Committee's debate on RTV Slovenia, when the opposition has practically insulted us and, of course, you have a difficult response to the insults. At that time, we were very silent that the debate would therefore be really reasoned, substantive and that it would result in a law that would be reached with a very high level of consensus. I personally guarantee that we will do everything in the SDS to go this way. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Given that we have some changes, I am just informing you that Member Cyril Testen will be the first to receive the word, followed by Kristian Janc, colleague Happy Friend has given up the debate and Ivan Gril will speak instead of Mira Petk. So, as a matter of fact, I call on Ambassador Cyril Testen to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome presidents and ministers with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! Once we adopted the 2006 budget, we had a lot of debate on the media law, because it was very difficult to place a billion dollars for this law in the budget, since it was not possible to plan, given that the law had not yet been adopted. I believe that no other law has been passed, and we have planned funds in the budget. In the end, we just came to the conclusion that it's the right thing to do. In Novi Slovenija, we have already promised, when we passed the law on RTV, that we will advocate that local media will also come through the budget in some way or in some other way to those funds that have been sprayed against the projected 3% of the RTV subscription. With regard to this 3%, I would have another additional question. I have repeatedly put this to the former director of RTV as to how the funds from these 3% that have been collected on RTV since the law was in force until the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Director argued that these funds are in a special account, and I am interested in when and how these funds will be distributed, because if I am correctly informed, they are not so small. As far as the financing of local media is concerned, my position is that, although some criteria are already laid down in the law, those media operating in less developed areas or in those areas where they have poorer marketing conditions should have one particular advantage in this sense, so that they can compete more equally with other media. As for the number and how many of those media that are eligible for these funds, we have some information, but I would like to know if there is any review in the Ministry of the press from that list, how many those who are expected to be eligible for these funds. There has been a lot of talk today about the presentations, as far as the Commission is concerned. I believe that the Ministry of Culture will be able to properly form a commission and that this commission will act properly and honestly. I am sure that it will certainly work better than the Commission has in previous years' calls. Maybe two more words for the end. I really like the correction in my marriage. I like it, though, because it actually gives someone who is already so damaged if an untruth is written, an opportunity to tell his vision or his truth in the right way. Moreover, I also like this correction because I think that journalists will also think that this possibility exists and will make contributions better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you. There's been another change, so I'm already giving the floor to Ambassador Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I, too, agree with the conclusions that have been made many times today that the media have incredible power and the possibility of great manipulation. As we can see today, we have probably never before in history been able to say so for sure that the media have a significant impact on the creation of culture, social life in general, and that is why every democratic state is striving to have such media as to make the most of its society's development to contribute to some added value. It is true, however, that any medium with any capital connection can manipulate and adjust its views by political pressures or capital pressures. This address, however, soon brings us to the point of abuse itself. To make this up to some extent, it is possible for the State to calm this down or correct it by financing from the state budget. All that I have already mentioned, this law, which we are considering today, already includes. According to my assessment, this law represents an excellent starting point for any corrections that will be made in the future in order to be put in place. And only if I now touch on funding, especially local radio, television and other media, is this certainly an important step forward. From where I come from, we have a television that has special meaning, we have four local radios and everyone expects this law to be able to finance their content that is of exceptional importance to that local space. That is why such solutions that this law brings support, as do I. I would now like to continue to touch on the solutions that this law brings, that is the right to correction. I am truly surprised that this opportunity has so upset the public, especially in editorial circles and in the ranks of journalists. I myself believe that this is in itself conditional and that when a journalist, when a medium is correctly writing, there is no need to fear any corrections, no objections, because I doubt that people are ready to make some correspondence with the media needlessly. However, it is certainly true in the media that articles or contributions are often incorrect, offensive and, in such cases, it is more than right for the affected person to have an opportunity to respond to such a statement. That's the way it is, I'm only going to give you one case that I've had the chance to get to know. Even though I have already had or have been manipulated in my political career, I have not responded to this issue, because it was not so present that I would like to respond to it, but this case, which I will mention, is more than an obvious example of how the media can be incorrect. It is a person who has been or is still a successful entrepreneur and has worked extremely well with a journalist Dela for many years, or we can say, even exemplaryly. All the contributions published were correct, without any necessary corrections or other comments. However, the matter changed at a time when this person was politically defined in public. It was not the case that she simply identified herself as a member of the SDS. It was not a week or two ago that the contributions in the newspaper Work were such that they insulted him, personally, his activity to discredit him, and in fact I could not believe that such a thing could be possible in Slovenia. All correspondence, both between the journalist and the editors, I had a chance to see it and it was documented. Surely the injured person tried to respond to these insulting, incorrect allegations. And to the editor or editor of the newspaper, Delo wrote the correct statement with evidence that the statements of the journalist were false. The editor responded with incorrect write-offs, where in no case did she want to publish his comment or his replica. And this correspondence was three, four or five times. He had no choice but to apply for judicial protection by way of a lawsuit or a press hearing. He tried another way, another way. He invited a reporter who said offensive things to a personal conversation, a chat where he would try to explain things in practice. This reporter's response was [[I will try to give almost literally this answer, which was transmitted by email]] "You're usually a political pig and I never want to meet you." I think every comment is superfluous. This further confirms to me that in the media or in this law we must allow and by law provide that any person affected has the opportunity to make corrections to allegations that could have been misused in the media. I support this law myself. I will continue to make further improvements through the debate if necessary, but in general I support such a law and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! Already at the presentation of Dr Vask Simoniti's candidate on the Home Committee for Culture at the end of 2004, I said that Mr Simoniti would mainly be Minister of Media and Less Minister of Culture, so I said: "I have the feeling that you will be more media minister than cultural minister, at least in your performance you have devoted the most time to the field of media and in my opinion you have been the most thorough." At that time, you presented an initiative to pluralise the media and establish a fund that, you say, suggests that Slovenian media, despite the fact that there are many of them and that they are different, still do not provide sufficient substantive diversity. Some of the reasons for this lie in the unreachable past, when the media were a direct lever of power, this allowed important media a monopoly position and in return it received a monopoly on information. Despite the process of democratisation, the establishment of the media market and competition, the monopolistic position of the most influential media has never been compromised and these media have never completed the process of internal pluralisation. Today, in support of the law concerning the plurality of the media space in Slovenia, you have written in the law that the degree of pluralisation in us, if measured by the most general criterion, is great. This progress is most likely due to the reviling of the coalition RTV law, which has transformed the public radio and television institutions into state and will be made by the law currently in the procedure. In this pluralisation of the media, especially national TV, we miss in the opposition the third parliamentary programme, which you have so much promised in the coalition, but now it has become a waste of some sort. It is a shame that yesterday viewers and viewers were unable directly to watch the meeting of the National Assembly on the third parliamentary programme of national television and to hear the arguments of the coalition MPs who rejected the asbestos law and the law on war veterans. A while ago, I asked if anyone had seen where the third program had gone, and I asked the honest finder to return it against the symbolic reward. I was hoping at least my friend Grimes would know more, and he let me down, too. The third program apparently finally disappeared somewhere between Šubičeva and Komenski Street. I accompanied a public presentation of the opinions on the law in this Chamber, and the main topic was the right to correction and pornography, as if the law were no other novelty. At first, I had the impression that direct TV transmission of the public presentation of opinions was organised only because some representatives could present corrections to minor newspaper articles. In particular, colleague Sok had a very thorough correction of newspaper statements, something that was directly broadcast on television. Too bad there wasn't a colleague of Trofenic's who could defend himself there. Some people can afford it. However, I am not at all afraid of the new regulation of corrections, that there will be no misunderstandings, corrections in the media or the right of reply. I think that the media owners, editors and journalists are smart enough to deal with this flood themselves, in claims, in corrections. Otherwise, the novel merely specifies more precisely what the law already contained. It is right to allow citizens the right to reply if they have been wronged in the media, but I do not agree with the fact that the editors of the ruling coalition will allow this additional possibility of advertising to be allowed to a reasonable extent. Several indictments in this direction were already detected, such as Grimes' repair in Del. At the hearing of the RTV law, coalition politicians argued that there would be a new better programme, a lower subscription to less advertising, violence and pornography. None of this has come true. The programme is not significantly better, the subscription is even higher, as we have to pay an additional 400 tolar for the costs with the bank's bill. Pornography on national TV is no less, as it was never and is not. Nevertheless, pornography was one of the main topics at the public hearing. It is no coincidence that the parallel campaign against our coastal cousin Rebecca from the Vipavska Valley was also carried out, and the Puritans will end up banning ads for underwear and evening gowns. Five key elements of this law, according to the Socialist Group of Members, have already been highlighted by my colleague Majda Potrat. Of course, there could be more to the marriage. Perhaps a provision on the mandatory 40% share of Slovenian music on national radio programmes, which is questionable in terms of available quality, will not only be obtained by commercial stations in this account. If national media have to play a low-quality Slovenian music programme, which I doubt is sufficient to fill 40% of the programming time, because this quality program is simply not going to happen, or we will have to listen to the music creators who supported the RTV law in the referendum campaign. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you for your contribution. To the floor, I invite Member Martin Mikolić, Vice-President Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The new media law, which has also seen a public presentation of opinions, has sparked quite a few controversy in the public. Last July, the Ministry of Culture prepared a draft which was published on their website and the professional public was invited to make comments and to complete them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Please allow, we have stereo disturbances and left and right. Only Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Comrade Kangler, please. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. The professional and other interested public also had the opportunity to present their views at the public hearing in early March. Therefore, the evidence that the professional public did not have sufficient scope to influence the drafting of media legislation does not hold back. Opinions differ mainly with regard to the extension of the right to correct and subsidise the media from the State budget. The fear of journalists that newspapers would become a stockpiling of pamphlets of misunderstood politicians, as one has expressed in a public presentation of opinions, is for the public, but this will be regulated by editorial policy as it has been so far. One who thinks that Slovenian media space is balanced is blind. In order to ensure media pluralism, the government will devote a billion tolars a year. The Slovenian media market is small and therefore additional resources are needed to enable a medium to be established, revive and function normally. 40% of all budget allocations will be allocated on the basis of a public call for funding the programme content of radio and television programmes, with the status of local, regional, student or non-profit radio and television programmes. According to research, local newspapers have greater readiness and regional radio stations have much greater obedience than national ones. We also know that the economic situation, even in demographically threatened areas and municipalities with high unemployment, also has a negative impact on the functioning of the media facing human and financial distress. In New Slovenia we have worked hard and supported the creation of new municipalities and it is right that people at local level are informed about events in their surroundings or their locality. It is certainly not wise that local media are largely dependent on the amount earmarked by the municipal council in exchange for reporting on the functioning of local communities. And in New Slovenia, we expect this situation to be mitigated by budgetary resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you. As I say, I invite Vice President Pavli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listened attentively to the Minister in the opening address, I felt that we had before us such a legal change, which is not a couple, which has received such broad public and professional debates, which has taken into account all the comments, so to speak. But we do know what the Slovenian proverb says that each beggar praises his little one. However, I would like to draw some flour into this small contribution, some flour for a better traveller, and I will try to divide my comments into five sets, and in the end I will also be pleased to make a proposal to improve this provision. The first comment concerns a world that bears a terribly ugly name. I'm sure he's getting on a lot of nerves, a radiofusion. But anyway, obviously we don't have a better match in Slovenian. If you look at the legal changes, you can find that the powers of this world are diminishing and that the composition of this council or the appointment of seven members is changing. This is an identical approach to the one already dealt with so many times, and now the existing law on RTV, it is a politicisation, the appointment of all these representatives by the National Assembly. It is also a controversial way of calling on those interested in this function. Under the current law, experts have proposed respected recognised institutions, and now candidates in the field of law, telecommunications, computer science, audiovisual culture, economics, journalism and communication should apply to the public tender, which is, of course, entirely correct at first sight, and secondly, we find that it forgives too many opportunities to open doors to those who wish to operate politically and not professionally in this world. The second set, which is worthy of criticism and re-examine, is the provision of conditions for plurality. According to the bill, a billion tolars to go to the media will be decided by the Commission. And this committee will be appointed by the competent minister. Of course, we can question whether it will be a professional, a voluntary appointment or a political one, regardless of who is in power. The current coalition or any other. But for the experience of the last year and a half, I'm pretty skeptical here, if not pessimistic. I also miss a number of concrete criteria to anticipate a good, fair, non-discriminatory distribution of funds. This is supposed to be resolved by a regulation. But, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the regulation is a sub-legislative regulation, which means that these criteria will be decided by the Ministry and not by us and not by the national assembly, which, of course, will be called by the Council. The two criteria mentioned above are once again popular. For example, ensuring regular objective and balanced representation of the action and positions of the political position and opposition. It seems that political pluralism in particular will be rewarded. But I can't imagine how this will really work if it doesn't work now after the amendments to the media law. Let me just mention the experience of the opposition coastal MPs, who we are looking forward to every publication of our comment, the question of the mission, the initiative, the marriage proposal in the coastal media, such as the child has cheered up with the lollipops or something else, because if we compare it over the last two years, from what we have in the opposition, we can see that these publications are unfortunately getting smaller. No one knows on what basis, it's probably a natural fear hanging in the air, but tomorrow this fear will have a legal basis. As far as political pluralisation is concerned, I believe that ethical, cultural, sexual, social pluralisation is of greater importance, for example, taking into account the different marginal groups that deserve more equal treatment in different media. Another criterion, specifically mentioned, is not in the most fortunate way. For example, the criteria for the importance of the project for the development of Slovenian culture and language, which concerns only radio and television programmes. So it only applies to radio and television. I don't know why. Why not for other media? Also interesting is the criterion that projects must ensure and respect the principle of equal opportunities and the exercise of tolerance only in programmes of particular importance, i.e. programmes which have the status of a local, regional and student radio or television programme. It is also unclear here why this criterion does not exist in other media. The third set of my comments concerns the right of correction and the right of reply. And I ask again the question that we have been able to read and hear in the media more recently, where else, who will benefit more from the amended article 31: the victims of the yellow press or the political propagandists? We've heard some quotations from Professor Koshirev or Professor Ferfile, and I'm going to quote Professor Dr. Milosavljevic, who answers this question like this. I quote: "Think how many aggressive tabloids there are in Slovenia, and all media will have to publish the corrections. Ask yourself how often ordinary people are found in newspapers, whose politicians are now talking so much about, how often do politicians or big economists come along? And how many times have they complained about the media, not just tabloids?" It is likely that anyone who writes corrections and benefits more than that from such a law will be able to do so on a number of occasions. And if I may mention my case, my experience. I have been doing my own writing for the past 20 years, almost 25 years, and until two years ago, until April 2004, when I entered politics, I did not seem to have one case or one need to publicize or demand such or other correction. Over the last two years, it's been a huge piece of cake. Why? Is it just because I write or because I'm in politics? Well, and if I may mention Mr. Novkovich, he says so. [[Quote]] : "Politicians, in particular rulings, always have an interest in pursuing their political propaganda, whatever. They apply it in a variety of ways, of course mainly through the funds of the pirar," a re-examination from the point of view or by representatives of the public. "Therefore, they are as dangerous and incorrect as the extreme writing of tabloids, for democracy also the contributions of journalists, which are an uncritical summary of political messages for the public or political performances." And what can happen is that because of the right to the truth, as you call it, we will publish contributions that will be longer than the original published contributions, and that some newspaper, such as the Primorska News, will eventually have to publish a special annex, where corrections will be published, not just corrections where different facts will be published. Obviously, any journalist who is critical of anyone will then receive the true floods of other writings and, clearly, his writing will die and the editors will have their hands tied to it. I don't know if this is the beautiful face of a 21st century democratic legal society. I don't think so. The fourth set refers to media access to information. The law fully regulates the obligation of public administrations and public function holders to inform the media of their operations, their projects and obligations to do so. However, it seems to us, and this also confirms the profession that the seven-day deadline is too long. For each of us was already angry when, for example, the journalist asked him to send him an answer in the next two or three hours or during the afternoon, I am not saying, these are extremes. But at the same time we also admit that we always have a longer deadline, but 7 days is, of course, too much, and this 7-day period, which does not apply only to working days, to workers, can change quickly even within 10, 11-days if you think it is a weekend or a holiday; this deadline should be reduced. The fifth, and also the last comment, concerns fines. This law could peacefully be renamed the Media fines Act. If you look at a regulation, you can find that a quarter is intended for criminal provisions or in the original text of 14 pages, and a good 5 pages are now available in the rapporteur. It is also interesting and, at the same time, absolutely unjustified that the media are at risk of significantly higher fines than the state authorities. Example. The media house, which will not publish the correction within the deadline and in the appropriate form, will have an increase of 15 million tolars, and the state authority, which will not communicate the information to the media in a timely manner, will have to charge three times less - that is, 5 million tolars. I think that such a solution is discriminatory and illogical. By the way, I fully agree with the press statement adopted on 16 March by the Department of Journalism of the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Ljubljana. Correct me if I'm wrong, Minister, but I think this moment in Slovenia is the leading institution in the field of journalism. I don't think there's anything else that comes to mind, maybe a variety of journalistic and other media associations, but I think the Department of Journalism of the Faculty of Social Sciences, the University of Ljubljana, means something. Now be critical enough, and make a suggestion. Let's look at the Internet that we all meet with every day for hours and hours, probably the most besieged, hottest medium. We have many instances of hate speech, many cases of illegal content emerging, and the problem is that such producers of programming content now, as the law is designed, are not included in the media law. I suggest that you consider the possibility of prescribing the obligation of these new forms of communication of programming content to register as media, to have responsible editors, to comply with legal provisions, etc. At the same time, we are one of the few countries in the European Union and elsewhere, I am talking about a West that does not have a specific call centre for anonymous reporting on such media or internet abuse. I don't think it would cost us anything to study this possibility here and bring it into the marriage. Time is enough. This call center would primarily take care of the collection of such and other applications, verify them and, if necessary, take action in those where it would assess them to be illegal and report them to law enforcement authorities - the police and the prosecution. I say again: the general debate is intended not only for political accounting but also or, in particular, for the assistance of the executive branch, so I am confident that at least a few of the comments you are hearing from our side today, including from the opposition, will make a difference in your minor and the law. Otherwise, there is no reason to change the existing law. The horse that pulls well or at least a little may not be replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you. I invite Member Dimitri Kovacic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that the debate of the speaker did not convince me, regardless of the fact that he also quoted the opinion of some people in his argument either Milosavljevic, Tof or anyone else who comes at a given time. Media plurality and plurality in the media are one of the fundamental postulates that ensure the existence of democracy. Plurality is never too much, but it can be too little. Therefore, it seems to me that all the provisions that contribute to increasing plurality are necessary and very welcome. And if we look at the content of the proposed amendments, then we can find that changes and additions to the media law are certainly a step in this direction, as they ensure the establishment of funding for the programming content of the media, better control is ensured in limiting and prohibiting concentration in media ownership and, lastly, also to a greater extent, ensuring the right to information, which means that the media consumer must be informed objectively, comprehensively and comprehensively. And just in the case of universal information, so far there have been the biggest problems, as some mainstream Slovenian media have repeatedly forgotten to inform the public about a different political view of a particular issue that was the subject of a media release, although there was such a different view. And this was certainly the case that the public could not be informed of such an event in a comprehensive manner. It is true that it is difficult to define the criteria for objectively plural and versatile publication of information. And this same law cannot be regulated in an absolute sense. However, the content of this law means, as I said earlier in the introduction, a step forward in this direction. Clearly, the editor must also be independent and autonomous in his work, including their decisions on what will be written, what will be said, or what will be published. However, the law imposes an important novelty concerning the right to publish the amendment, and something has already been said today. By this right to publish an amendment or to publish contrary facts where the conditions and manner of such publication are laid down, the law provides, more than ever, that the correction or, if you wish, a statement of contrary facts will be published in the same or similar place as the basic journalist's contribution has been published. In this context, too, we can talk about improving the right to information from media users, as was the case with the current regulation. The law also represents a step forward in ensuring the protection of Slovenian language and Slovenian music creativity. And I am pleased that some of the opposition species also look positive on this segment of the novel. This is certainly very important. As a relatively small nation in the European space, we need to pay even more attention to the protection of the mother tongue than we have before, as this will strengthen our Slovenian identity in the context of integration within the European Union. In ensuring the identity of Slovenia, it has also made an important provision for the law under consideration, which ensures an increase in Slovenian production in general, and especially in the field of music creativity. In particular, the latter has so far been highly under-appreciated, thus contributing to reducing the motivation of Slovenian music creators, and therefore I cannot agree with my colleague Bevk, if I am not mistaken, said that there was not enough quality domestic production to be published. Just because this production was not motivated by the fact that it could be published to a greater extent, production was also less than it was, and it certainly knew the quality of this restriction. I believe that the proposed law is good and that its provisions, which are also in line with the acquis of the European Union, will provide a suitable basis for achieving the objective of adopting the amendment to the media law. This objective is to establish such a regulatory framework that will allow for more plurality in the media field, thereby giving the public the right to objective information to the fullest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you. Although a colleague Bevk signed up for the replica, at least in my opinion, Dimitriy Kovacic just said he disagreed with you. Excuse me? Here you go. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I objected that 40% should be provided in radio programmes for Slovenian music, except for the second type of music, because 40% does not come into this quota, unfortunately, Slovenian music creator from the 16th century Jakob Petelin Gallus, because there are no Slovenian texts in his compositions. Therefore, this provision should be justified slightly differently than is now justified in the law itself and in the explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you. We continue the debate. The next on the list of Members to be tabled is Mr Jakob Preseknik. He's not here. I call on Ambassador Aurelia Yuri to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you. This law is not only bad, it is dangerous for the further growth of democracy. Under the law on RTV, a new invention seeks to silence the voice, a critical voice to power, or more precisely to adapt the media and information space to the interests and objectives of the current ruling. By enlargement, by the way, confused and incomplete, the right of citizens and citizens to correct or object and further clarification objectively - the space and time of publication are limited - a narrower space of editorial and journalistic creation and the applications are turned. In fact, the situation is created when a journalist and not a person who is in his attention is controlled and previously forced to defend himself, which is most often the official - czech, why he wrote, reported, commented and not otherwise. To take a dangerous step in this direction and threaten the freedom, autonomy and professionalism of the media, in addition to the content of the law, speaks even more tangible facts. Let me just stop at those who have been very visible lately. First of all, poorly prepared and shamelessly directed - I am sorry that Comrade Grims is not here - or even better, a spirited public presentation of the opinion of this law on which the citing party, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, has not bothered to attract the media profession, usurped time and role. From the moderator, he turned his comments and various responses to each and every one of him and the government into an unforgivable lawyer of the minister's product and went beyond the Minister's law. Secondly, taking over the management of media houses and offices, third, limiting and directing the movement of rapporteurs from the National Assembly, government and ministries. But, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition benches and Mr. Minister or representative of the Ministry, all of this is a short breath. It's pressing your head into the sand, it's forcing an image that's not there. We know the story of the media mogul in Italy, who overcomes much more knowledge and power and influences like Mr Grims and Mr Simoniti, but is already preparing for a farewell. He's trying to survive a few more political lives, but his candle goes out relentlessly. And sooner or later, that's gonna happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you. I call to the word of Ambassador Gezo Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In listening to this discussion and to the current situation in this room, you must nevertheless ask yourself whether there is anything else that makes sense to tell anyone or anyone else who listens to you. I think you've already found that those who attended the presentation of this law at the ommis that was in this house could not have moved much. And that's what you've informed us today, so these discussions, which are going to be, which are going to focus on a few otherwise important points, are probably not going to move anything anymore, and - the caravan is going its way. I'm also going to touch two, three things that I think are important. Many of you have already said it, and I will repeat it myself, and each one will add his own experience or his own story on one side or the other. One part is the one we tortured a few years ago, that's the funding of local media. This story revolved in different ways with different views, perhaps those from Ljubljana and the surrounding area and from the periphery saw the story in different ways and this matter did not go in the right direction. I'm afraid it won't happen under this law either. It is true that one article states that special funds, 40% of the amount, will also be intended to promote the plurality of information, but in a way that will be closely controlled, will be directed to those who are likely to be liked. And this part is very dangerous, worrying and asking questions about its effects, in order to achieve some plurality, I do not create any illusions to do so. The main reason for the locals is that they will get some funding, because some with a funding system are so far away that they can survive, and all kinds of resources are welcome to them, and they will probably be willing to do something about it. But we know what. The second part is probably the most insidious, that's the correction. Some we see in their own way, and I'm not exactly among those who say that correction will tarnish some media. This can, however, happen if, as we can simply interpret this correction, each story that always has two faces can be shaped in its own way, and we will write to each other to make it a joy, and in the end the public will not even know what it is about. But I find the correction as interesting as the many in this room from their own experience. We have listened most in this direction, but so far media management has been such that the left hand has made destiny for this nation through the media and so on. I am more on the left, and I have experienced a story that the national media RTV has published a story about how the state has offered to a citizen a land that he bought cheaply and sold it dearly. But it didn't happen first, not second, not third. This citizen is in the way this law foresees, and here we have also heard in intervocations that this was possible in the past, he has asked the editor of the information programme to correct it in the same place in the next short term, and she said, "Whatever, sue." If that's how you see the story, then this correction is welcome. We know what a lawsuit means, that it's just bullshit, that you don't wash anyone else, that it's about the court-martial rolls, that you're dragged back into the media, and you're even more mud-hunting than you were when you got wet. This correction also has a different side. Someone who has a lot of money or power can afford a pretty strong team that on any information that doesn't fit him to counterinformation, and any story can turn into another story and we're back where we were, that the nation won't even know what it's about. It's a complete mess. For example, those who are critical of some authority will be demented, second opinions, second vision, even in the same, slightly larger scale, and this correction will create some confusion, where we will no longer know who has done good and bad to whom, and this matter can be completely solved. And the way it is formed in this law, the matter will not solve problems that are unfortunately, but among those who have their own experiences, I am increasingly frequent in our, especially the political space, when individuals are discredited by various structures, non-realitys, lies, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I salute the Minister with my fellow workers, colleagues and colleagues! The law is very difficult to expect mainly from local media, which enables and ensures further better and independent survival. The law provides for a much-needed plurality that will introduce some new quality of information and communication into Slovenia. The law also protects children and minors from inappropriate content. Here we will probably have to make further arrangements in the sub-contracts concerning supply and demand, especially where inappropriate content needs to be properly marked and moved to less appropriate terms for children. More content in the Slovenian language or in the field of speech or music is also welcome. Of course, I mean Slovenian in a broader sense that it would not be the dilemma, whether Gallus, who wrote in Latin, would come into this set or not, or whether we would read the Brižin Monuments at some appropriate anniversary even in an incomprehensible language, and right here is the opportunity to then follow the comment in the Slovenian language so that we even know what it said or what the great master Gallus put into it. The law also protects the copyright of authors and in particular follows international expectations or European directives. It also improves people's information or people's access to information of a public nature. Above all, two mechanisms are important, namely the way programmes are financed when programmes are financed on the basis of calls and dispersed ownership, as it has been shown recently that small radio stations have been purchased by a group of owners and there is a high risk of becoming listed jubox from the original local station. And here I want to stop, in financing local radio stations, because in our home environment we have local radio and local television. The first issue is that funds should already be prepared, funds for these media should already be systematically collected and it is logical that these funds will go into circulation as soon as possible and ensure normal work for authors who on the ground often with love and enthusiasm and sometimes perhaps even less attractive still operate as they were put in place. The importance of local media would only highlight two cases from the local environment when it came in this December and later in January to the destruction of the asbestos water pipe and the municipality was forced to switch to a less secure and less suitable pumping station, we just learned through the local media what had happened, and through the local media we were given instructions on what to do, what to do, who is advised by the use of this water, how to use it, who are the risk residents who should use bottled water and so on. Then, in the event of heavy rain, citizens get lower data on the water supply at both Sorahs, and very quickly or more successfully or more quickly, they can respond to the present threat and begin to resolve and prepare at least those basic things to take cars to higher positions, and then wait for the disaster to occur. Well, local television cares about plurality in such a way that it informs us of events, especially immediately after a meeting of the municipal council, shows a short shot where citizens can see the essentials, later after a segmental whole session. And maybe it's this session or this television that I'm supposed to thank, because a fellow LDS saint promised me he'd put me on my ass, and without television, he might have made the threat come true. In the point of correction and reply, even for this point, it was quite sceptical that one newspaper would fill in person A with a statement and the next copy would be filled by person B with this dementia. However, right here, I see an opportunity when, in the next issue, the demanta can be announced in the next best time possible, that A will also be much more cautious in choosing the words and manner of expression, because everything it declares in the next week can be denied in the next issue. Therefore, the need for corrections will decrease significantly very quickly, and not only will there be controversy in the media itself, but there will be normal reporting. All the other points are also very welcome, or I am not that interested, especially in the share of domestic music. Since I'm a rock 'n' roll fan, it won't make much difference to me. I'm visiting a couple of concerts this year. I've got the Rolling Stones in Brno this year. Last year, U2, twice REM. I mainly support the law because it brings a lot of positive news.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Zagorac has the floor to prepare Mr Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I'm one of those guys who thinks it's a good idea to fix it. We will all agree that the credibility and accuracy of information are a priority that the media are supposed to offer to their users. In particular, commercial media are the ones where we can see such and other information. Above all, we have recently faced very interesting truths. One of the things I can mention is that a journalist from a commercial media somewhere received information that one political party was supposed to afford to pay for the flight of planes at Milosevic's funeral, not any aircraft, but even for Mige 29. So when another journalist gets information that another political party decides to take a trip to Mars, it'll probably also be the top topic of the central diary of some commercial television. I will therefore support the law because I agree with the correction that will only contribute to the relevance of the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Kokalj has the floor to prepare Mr Gaber, if he is not there, and Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk. It appears that the darkness is also somewhat exhausted due to the lack of a very large presence of Members. Maybe two things that I see in the everyday work of the media of a public character as those that the law is trying to regulate, but I also have certain questions. I certainly welcome the steps taken by this proposal, as already mentioned, to pluralisation, to address the issue of financing the media of particular importance, to protect children, to define the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications more clearly, and so on. However, at the point of access to information for the media, where it is sufficiently processed, how and how the media have the right to information of a public nature, I also miss a normative part in this law, which should be kept by the media as regards the obligation to provide public information to public officials. The law is really trying to pluralize the whole situation, but from the everyday life of a public official or a public official, I can say that it is sometimes very difficult to tell the public what I am, as a public official or a public official, or someone is obliged to tell the public what he is doing, what he is doing. It often happens that a political party or an individual MP or a minister or someone else convenes a press conference where they wish to report to the public, and the media often refer to the duty of a public worker to inform the public about his work, but they understand this by having to answer their questions. However, when I, as a Member, wish to inform a matter of my own motion, of some of my political activities to the public, it often happens that the media do not transmit this information to the public, which I think they should or should be indebted to. I think that there is a part of the legislation that would allow citizens to be objectively informed directly by those responsible for this public information and we are involved in active political work. It often happens that, given the understanding of autonomy in Slovenia, the media take advantage of a public statement or the information they wish to provide to the public about the things they are interested in, which they are obviously entitled to, but do not do their duty, as the public media does not inform the public about what they are wanted to be informed by a public institution or a public official. I must say that I miss this chapter, I know this is a very slippery terrain, but on the other hand, some media cannot be made public if it does not perform this basic public function and is financed by public funds. This is one thing that I would also like an answer, if possible, from the government. I also welcome a systematic approach to the protection of children and minors against content that is not appropriate for them. I think it is good, because I think that Slovenia is probably the most disbanded country in this respect, which does not have things arranged; but if they are arranged, they are not carried out, mainly by inspection services or by the market inspectorate. Of course, there is a very soft form of regulation here, thank God that there is something, but it is that the media will produce, if I understand correctly, some code that will regulate this access. This matter can be very elastic, perhaps it is appropriate for the first such law, practice will show whether the media have a sense of where the border is and where it is not, or whether we will react to the citizens. On this basis, an appropriate practice will then emerge, and it is indeed very difficult to write the explicit criteria, which is the violence that goes beyond or which is already affecting unhealthyness, into the mentality of the child and the youth, where the limit between pornography and erotica has been discussed in this national assembly in recent years. But I don't know if it's good enough for the media to regulate themselves. Although as regards the print media, as is evident here, the market inspectorate is in charge. But it is true that for the self-regulation of the media I mentioned earlier, the Ministry here is competent to monitor how these things happen. However, as I said, it is difficult to prescribe some very clear criteria here. But there are also times written, which I welcome, where time is clearly limited, such as on television, when something should be played and when it should not be played. In print media, specifically about pornography, I am disturbed by ads in the daily newspaper and in annexes because they are practically accessible to children. Of course, it is the responsibility of parents, I agree, but I think that advertising these hot numbers should still be removed from these newspapers, which are available every day on the tables at home, because they are accompanied by appropriate illustrations. I think it doesn't belong in the context of some hygiene and it could be moved into those media and into those spaces where everyone who needs it can find it. I would also like to point out that I think it is appropriate, as I now take from the debate we had with regard to the declaration of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the European institutions, to translate the provisions of the directive on television without borders into this law, where this was explicitly highlighted in the debate. This can now, as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I think it is right that these things are actually being taken into account and trying to reconcile our media space with the European context. Even in this sense, it seems to me that the comment I originally said about the mission of the media is justified and worth considering. But if we're talking about stories, I think everyone has a negative or a positive story, so I wouldn't be telling the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Mr Anderlich should be prepared, if he is not present, and Mr Školč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was encouraged by the discussion of one of the predecessors, a media expert, who gave us some political basis for making changes or a novelty of this law. That is why I will also use or use for the starting point an assessment or a statement made by the applicant himself in the introduction to this law. The applicant himself wrote in his explanation that it is now the right time for the country to further develop media policy in Slovenia. Because the continued absence of a clear media policy could lead to significant deviations from Slovenian cultural and national identity. This was clearly the starting point that led the proposers to amend this law. Well, as a Member and a participant in this political space, I must say that this project of some new clear media policy can be monitored in the last year and a half, especially since last April, when it appeared in a secret way, under the designation of unknown authors, a proposal for a new law on radio television has been prepared. Everything has been going on in Slovenian space since then, as in other spheres of social life, for example in the economy, some media, human resources acquisition by the current executive authority. Therefore, the order of legislation that we adopt in this national assembly is not entirely coincidental. We first adopted the Radiotelevision Slovenia Act last year, which led to the adoption by the current government of Radiotelevision Slovenia. So, central to national importance. This was followed by the acquisition of another major Slovenian journal, which was taken over by the current authorities through state shares in the media. So it is more than obvious that the debate on the media law is about a new media policy of throwing sand in the eyes of the proponents, that is, the government. First you take over RTV, then one of the biggest daily newspapers in these two houses, you have a decisive influence on decisions and editorial policy, with pressure on justice, which we are now witnessing, and then you reinforce it, and then you come with a media law that should prevent it. And here I am thinking mainly about the concentration of media space. In these two cases, this is an eccentric, illustrative example of the concentration of this media space. Now that this concentration has been assured by the country reading the government, it is necessary to prevent others from doing so. In doing so, the applicants do not know or knowingly silence that the main problem in the concentration of the media space is not in the capital concentration. That is where the authorities, the politicians, the political parties do not reach editorial policy. The problem is the concentration where the state, the government, the current government, the political parties have their extended arms, and I have previously counted these two eccentric cases. Similarly, the so-called paradigm of the media fund and the pluralisation of the media space are also considered to be the same or similar. Again, it is a pure political story and some kind of inappropriate institution that would share these funds on the basis of clear and unambiguous criteria. That is why there is no law in this proposal. The criteria for the allocation of funds are entirely imposed and not sufficiently entrenched to allow the Commission's full will, although, as the motioner wrote down again, I quote: "In the framework of the expert committee that will propose the allocation of funds to the Minister, people who are interested in the decisions of this commission will no longer sit and cooperate." Furthermore, it is not said or known that this committee is proposed and appointed by the Minister, who is an ecclatic political personality. By comparison, in the neighbouring Austria, the Federal Government decides on these matters and the Appellate Body is a special institution or commission to which they can complain about subsidies. And there's something else about the right to correction. There is no doubt that the right to correction is primarily linked to the publication of false, false or misleading information and abusive accusations. There is also no doubt that this right is the right of people, citizens and must primarily protect the minority, not the majority. In those two cases, I said he was protecting the majority. It is completely unnecessary that this right is also granted to organisations and bodies, especially authorities, which have a large majority of this media space and time filled with their statements and press conferences and advertisements. These institutions, these representatives of the authorities, are allowed space to correct and respond excessively. The correction cannot be in place for public function operators to exert pressure on the media. But it's a function that the media doesn't pressure citizens. This is, for my primary purpose, this correction and the answer. Today it has already been said, one concrete comment, that the time limit for this extension is not appropriate in this law, given the pace of life itself. And finally another quote, because there was a lot to hear today, especially with regard to correction. Mr Grimes spoke a lot, but two months ago he was one of the biggest critics of the illustrative case of correction and the answer "Dear Borut, Dear Tone!" It was a letter, which is also a medium and where two citizens, two representatives of political parties, were correcting each other, but the other, and among them was Mr Grims, who had abused the right to correction and the answer between them in political manipulation, and he was not questioned, nowhere was he mentioned and so on. Today, when you listened to him about this talk, he had a big political lecture on this topic on the opposite coast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no doubt that media legislation requires a debate at all times on its suitability. In this way it becomes a subject of a variety of interests, and from this point of view it is understandable that they are trying to apply various interests through the revisions of regulations, which are not only so old for us. This was best seen within this debate, which was held in this national assembly, and this is also very well seen if any of the participants in this debate are reminded of anything. The previous National Assembly also split up on certain segments of the legislation and we had, as we heard today, advocates of locals and others who were supposed to be from Ljubljana. But this is a framework that always triggers different discussions. I think it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to try to understand all these different interests, to see what needs to be regulated, which can leave to self-regulation, to see where the different forms of ownership can be seen to see what is important to deserve the name of the public media. And within that, I imagine that the Ministry of Culture is the ministry that is trying to expand media space and expand the area of freedom. It would seem to me that it must always be a guide and, on the other hand, also establish the responsibility of all those who perform in this space. If I judge these ideas that we have today from this point of view, then it does not seem entirely appropriate. The text itself brings some correct and interesting corrections to the old solutions, a few additions to the mechanisms to which the legislator and those who prepared his proposals were at some point either not careful enough or not listening enough. But it seems to me that the intention of this law is also to try to subordinate this space, to try to politicize it and thus to reduce what the media serve, and this is to ensure the transfer of freedom of speech, statements among people. Here, however, the law in the individual segments seems to be subject to different interests, from these political ones, which we have heard a lot about, to the moralists and others who are more secretive. I don't know how much this debate helps. Yesterday I remembered here that there were 400 years from the description of the famous events of a knight who fought with a windmill on the wind. But I think that defending the freedom of public speech and the opportunity to express yourself is always up to date. I've had a lot of experience with it since the '80s, when this place was pretty closed, and later, and I wouldn't know how much to talk about. What are the elements that I think the government is trying to tackle? There has been a lot of talk about these corrections and the mechanisms that these corrections allow. I do not hope to say that the solution that is best in marriage right now is best because it was also questioned in the context of the adoption of the law. But surely the right to correction, as defined now, is such that it will cause a lot of problems to the media. And I don't know if that's gonna make people more informed, and I don't know if maybe the government actually doesn't want to. If one of their electorates hasn't said everything when he said it, if you don't write it properly, the government will take care of it. There is this fear. Of course, it is difficult to talk about fears when we talk about the norms of law, but why fear is being placed in the country is that we can also talk about this in the context of the general debate. But there's been a lot of talk about that. Another such appealing thing that the new law brings is this consistent protection of the rights of children and minors. It's hard to have anything against such a phrase. But the back of this is to discuss the complete prohibition of pornography. And here I think we're on some very slippery ground. I am not sure that this prohibition must be ensured in the absence of a definition of what this means to anyone. If I were to quote again one of your key voters in the media area, this is Mr Granda, who runs the RTV Council, would not want to do advertising, but he also understands unnecessary and inappropriate chatter on public RTV under this term. If we were to ask the chairman of the national assembly in this room, who must patiently listen to every speech and every chatter, if we gave him the opportunity to tell him what is unnecessary, then very few things would likely be heard in this national assembly, whether it is good or bad. This certainly means a restriction on our work and, in public space, a restriction on the statement of views, etc. I want to say that without some clearer definitions and clearer regulations, some of them will be served, we will again witness some kind of hypocrisy, which is much more common between us. Finally, Mr Prodnik, who is one of the guardians of this law, does not care about the minister or anyone else. It is not entirely clear how this could be prevented, unless we have a very similar effect as we do with some other inappropriate jobs to move into the field of the grey economy, into the field of illicit and into the field of crime. So I think it is necessary to look, as these Directives on cross-border television say, for the full regulation of clear things, but not where some things are not fully managed, to cut with prohibitions, but only as an illustration. It must also be a mechanism for controlling this sector in two bodies, which are redefined or redefined by the law. One is a world for broadcasting, which will certainly, as it is now set up, turn into a phantom world chosen by the coalition - we will not know where - but the national assembly will serve, as in the case of the law on RTV, for the cover where things democratically happen. However, these people will be selected elsewhere, and we can certainly believe that in this world we will not see those who perform as experts with the necessary certificates in public, but not with the verification of the political commissioners of individual parties. This broadcasting council, as it was made, essentially means transferring powers to the ruling coalition. Even more directly, it is served the interests of the current authorities with the media fund, where the government determines the procedure and also the criteria. If it really was to try to achieve some neutrality or some widespread pluralisation, then it certainly should not be decided by people who are quite extreme in their positions. And part of these extremists are certainly currently inhabited by the Ministry of Maistrov, concerning the understanding of public debate and public space. We should dispel these concerns and these doubts, which are rightly raised in the Slovenian space and which I am simply repeating for others, and unfortunately I find that they have a lot of experience with biased decisions that we can really consider justified. The next thing that's not clear to me is that some money is provided for local media, while at the same time the criteria for when these local media have the right to this status are being met. If the criteria remain the same in the territory, the content which must be of local nature is dropped from 30% to 20%. Before that, it would make sense to do things differently. If money is provided for this from the State budget, which I am skeptical of, is absolutely necessary, but given that the State Treasury is the only one fit to settle political interests, even in this point I understand the coalition to do so, then I would expect it to increase the criteria for these local content, but not lower them. So the spirit of this law certainly is that we must be concerned. The things that are happening in the media, both on public TV and in print media, are also giving to those who say that the government is trying to seize the levers of control over these instruments. Of course, we have always received some explanations here that the government knows best. That the government is democratic because it has just been given a mandate in the elections and that, finally, all these things have happened before. Let's just say that's true. But there are also other truths - that even the best opposition government must not trust and that the best media authorities must not trust it, but must look at it. It's the core of that discussion. There is no point in saying that China is worse, so as long as it is not so bad for us to make a statement, be content. This is what the minister and his colleague Grimes would like to tell us. In this way, I object to these other arguments. And the last. If it was like this before, and it's different now, this one seems to me, I'll say, the most bizarre. I understand that changes have taken place in order to make it different without being what it was, and let's say that it was bad and that this was in one very broad way verified. That is why I do not agree with such arguments because they separate the discussion from what is enshrined in the law. However, there is a number of solutions in the law that we need to be concerned about and that, if there is no change, we will have to vote against such solutions. Then we will find ourselves again in a situation that Minister Simoniti knows very well. In a situation where this discourse and discussion between the government and the opposition will be lacking, between the government and parliament, between the government and the public. And we'll be back where he and his colleague Bezigarev started: something has to be done. The text may then be even more up-to-date than it was then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Kangler has the floor. Let's get Mr. Potts ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I listened with great interest to some speakers in front of me. It may sound to some that I will be critical when adopting this legislation, but I would like to point out that I personally wanted to come to the law on amendments and supplements to the media law and that I also wanted to see changes in the area of the RTV law. But I would like to point out that all those who spoke before me about taking over seem problematic. If I look a few years ago, and given the political kilometre I have left behind, I can see that in the past, too, those media that have been strongly left-handed have not helped, for example, to keep the Liberal Democracy in power, given the ownership structure and the content they have published. I am also convinced that even if there is a new structure, the Slovenian public and the Slovenian people are not so stupid or naive that they do not know such or other political intrigues in the field of the seventh force, as we call them Members, that someone can manipulate all the media so strongly, strongly and in the long term, in the saddle. But I was very surprised, and it might be good for the Minister to return to the hall as soon as possible, because it is good that you also hear a direct opinion from the field, directly from a man who feels the influence of politics on the media on his skin every day. And when I listened to Mr Barovic, when he was talking about "flowing" frequencies, how the frequencies for radio and television receivers were shared in the past. I'm not sure if the Minister will be able to change the allocation of these frequencies. Everywhere, there will be a policy, even in the past. The problem is that some who are employees in Gregorčič share frequencies in the cabinets, under the table, share promises, dress Members, write anonymouss and so on. Neither from the coalition party nor from Soku of another coalition party is helpful, since we have a domestically stated link to a coalition. But it's probably someone else's problem if one Slovenian tabloid can write you an entire page, for example, hunting for Kangler, and the last paragraph, "we got an anonymous notice, but Kangler is this..." Not being naive, but crazy that we, who also know journalists, who also have friends, regardless of which political option I belong to, would not find out who is the one who writes things like that from Gregorčič. Who is the one who drags around government offices and manipulates, not only through Styria, but also somewhere else with radio frequencies, but also with this fund that is promised a fund for local television and radio. I can tell you that from my case. Earlier, every 14 days I could be on TV in Maribor, given that someone had promised from this fund 100 million to someone, they had to reduce Kangler due to the autumn local elections in Maribor to 10% of what he had previously been, regardless of my political stance in the coalition or in the opposition or political activity for Maribor. And I come back to someone, a gentleman or a lady who dictates the pace, you won't get that 100 million if you don't act like we said. And he doesn't fly to the minister so the minister doesn't get me wrong. And he's flying to someone from Gregorčič, from the government office. Probably in winter, the climates were too turned on and some heads were so frozen that they no longer feel what political pluralism is, as Mr Grims said. Mr Grimes also said the mirror. Yes, the mirror is very important in this regard. And I agree with my colleague Grims when he talks about the mirror and the past, about what they were doing. And my client was in the government. But it's a dangerous mirror. If you look at the mirror at the right angle, it's okay. But if someone with this mirror is looking and doing exactly the same way or worse than some before, this mirror is very dangerous. Very dangerous. And it's about one circle of people who are exploiting current politics, and at the moment, there's someone else in this government coalition who's in power to get themselves or someone else's legal benefits, or I don't know what kind of wealth they're going to get. I'm not gonna talk about names, so I'm not gonna find another anonymous person again, and I'm gonna be on the front page of the Direct or any other officer. That's the problem. And here I am concerned as a government MP when we talk about the commission, how and how it will be composed, which will distance money from the fund provided for local television and radio stations. Despite the behavior of some individuals, I must say frankly, my heart, my soul, my will, and the question that has been sent cannot be taken away from me. And just as people follow an individual, a group of people, politicians, or even the media in a different way, I am also convinced that anyone who overpresses his claws over the seventh force, as it were, will sooner or later be burned. The journalist must have his head, the journalist must have his way and the journalist must write what he thinks is right for him, without someone dictated to him in this way that Kangler should no longer be on radio or television stations, at local television stations, because in this case you will not get from this fund of this money. I'm not making this up. I'm telling you right here. Good thing we're talking in March, not September, two days before the local elections. I'm warning you today and I'll tell you. And we regret to hear this from some of our fellow journalists who not only cultivate friendship because of their job or friendship because of politics as such, but because we have known each other for many years and there is no room for some, not for the opposition, and not for some, who are slightly smaller political parties, we have not so much influence in the allocation of frequencies and elsewhere, nor for some colleagues from New Slovenia, let alone from DeSUS. But here is the danger, and here I must be in this place, because there is a place in this place to warn the minister that he will not succumb to some of Gregorčič who will dictate, who can dictate in their own way, in Maribor, in Celje, Murski Sobota, and this will happen, and it will not happen, nor will it. Excuse me, gentlemen, the content of the program is important. And the content of the program is so important that it must be the one who will convince the Commission that someone can draw on such or other funds. I'm not afraid of pornography lately, I'm more afraid of some owners of such or other radio and television programs that need to be prostituted if they want to get such or other services. I'm more afraid of that. Pornography used to be, pornography was on the Internet, and we can still watch pornography wherever you get to. The more dangerous they are, the more I have mentioned them, the more I know that many will be offended or angry because of this statement I have made. But I never hoped in this place, after this stage, to tell the untruths, but those feelings of mine. This also happened, dear Minister, listen well, everyone had the opportunity and opportunity at one of the radio stations in Maribor to come donate for poor children, for mothers, for Christmas and before the new year. And because I was the only politician, a local politician, and also a statesman who in some environment donated to mothers who didn't have the means to survive, for Christmas, instead of spending that money that I had planned out of my pocket for New Year's cards, it was a problem because Kangler appeared in the media as that donor. Everyone has a right, everyone has a chance, everyone has a chance, all they have to do is cut in their pocket and do it. And I will not comment on this place, from which the political options were the most grumbling and stumbled upon my such or other moves. And I did this before last year, and I did the same thing this year by having another colleague join me from the largest coalition party. And everyone can do that. And it's probably me, and my colleague, who comes from Hotch, my colleague Lucky Hvauc, that's not why we're the sinful goat because we decided on this path. But for some of us, we just showed up in the local media right now. And then those who do not agree with my policy, not in the National Assembly, not in Maribor, because they have such or other political intrigues, because with their knowledge and with their work and with their influence they cannot otherwise convince people or come to the political scene, or have not been elected to the National Assembly, they want to press on their own, through their parties, through contacts, through friends, political or otherwise against a minister who is even more influential. That's not the way it works. But to tell you the truth, I wanted to make some changes myself, I wanted to, I hope that these changes will fail, and that these changes will not be seen by the previous or previous coalition, and even less mirrored, and that this will be a path, a path such as this, whether I am now in the opposition or in the coalition, our local and television stations and others deserve it, and whether the minister comes from the People's Party or from the SDS or from the SD or Liberal Democracy. This must be a practice and it must be avoided. Such or other influences, I will tell you in advance, and I hope that at least this has been given to some Members who are daily closer to local elections, we feel such or different pressures every day that we will be asking such or different questions in this place, as regards the allocation of funds and certain other moves. I'll get it over with. Once again, no anonymity, no way to do what some people do is the right way. However, I would like to see the legislation come to life, that it would actually be possible for journalists to also be free and others to find their press space in the media where they want it. You can't force anyone, you can't convince anyone, I can tell you from the opposition openly and well-meaningly, no matter who will change the ownership structure of some of the biggest journals or television, local, private houses, for a period of time, they can influence the image of Parliament in terms of composition or political power. From experience and practice, we can find out and make sure that many times without the media, the nation writes its own judgment and makes it its own. And I hope that the nation will follow this, and that in this way it will know its own timing and proper decision. That's my conclusion. Of course, I will support the law, with these warnings I have given, and it seems to me that the Minister has heard them and is aware of them, and he can probably admit it himself in this place because there is no minister who would not have such or other pressures. But there are particular pressures here, and the Minister will have to support you and do his job properly. After all, if anything goes wrong, we also have in Parliament some other levers that Members can use in their own conscience and judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! It may not be necessary to stress separately or for a long time the importance we all attach to the means of public information, their objectivity, and their independence. We certainly attribute this importance to the need for information, to the transmission of cultural services, to sports and more. As politicians, however, we are most interested in objectively, and perhaps it is pointless to hide this, fair and correct information about the political developments at home; also abroad, but especially at home, because there we also see a mirror or a picture in the mirror of our own work. And it is not surprising that these issues, which are related to our idea of media independence, to their equality, to their plurality, we are most attentive when we talk about the proposed amendments and amendments to the media law in the National Assembly. Since the 2005 State Department's report on the state of human rights in Slovenia was mentioned in the debate, I should like to mention some of these findings myself, I admit, the quotations that have been removed, as they have been said so far, have been ripped out, yet they give all the elements of a particular picture. Among other things, the report states, there are warnings of the government's indirect influence on the media, not tragically, but said. Once again, the government has a significant share in many companies that are shareholders in most media outlets. Thus, indirect influence is also possible through ownership of those companies where the government has a significant ownership stake, and these have a significant share in media houses. Furthermore, there is a warning that the share of government ownership in the media is due to self-censorship in certain media messages. Furthermore, the law on RTV provides for increased participation of the government and Parliament in representative bodies directly controlling the radio and television networks. I think it is right that we know these facts, we do not need to glorify them, but I think it is wrong that we also diminish their meaning, because there are conclusions that can also have an impact on objectivity, directness, independence of the media as we wish. I know that the RTV Act specifically dealt with certain issues for RTV. I personally firmly believe that all of us, among them, who have been alerted to the possible weaknesses of this law in the increased influence of the government on direct work and also on programmes in RTV, have had legitimate reasons for such warnings. Recruitment in the Programme Supervisory Board has confirmed the desire for political influence, the selection of the Personnel Board has certainly not been rejected, it has been confirmed earlier, and it is likely that certain problems may arise at this point. More than ensuring to the government that we continue to monitor the consequences and to recommend them warmly, not with great hope of success, that it should pay attention, because in the long term it will certainly not be compensated if there are problems among journalists with regard to the public's assessment of independence and the like in such an important institution as public RTV, let it be accompanied. The second question is related to other media outlets and how they can have a political impact. I mentioned the scrapping quotations from the State Department's report because it is certainly possible here to the greatest extent in addition to the direct political influence, which I believe is less often present, although I do not say that it is excluded, because it is then a grave intervention or direct to editorial policy or to interviews and influence journalists. I say again, I don't believe he's heavy, but he's not off. The second form, however, is the influence through the owners. And in this part, ladies and gentlemen, we already have poor experience in Slovenia, where it appears directly that the precise determination takes over the shares of those companies in which the government has significant shares, we can also call them KAD and SOD, we can also refer to them as indirect repacking of shares into other societies and then a dominant influence through this in the appointment of the supervisory board, and then through the supervisory board, also on the editorial boards, that important changes are taking place, which also have their political note. These are the options in the central journals, such are the possibilities in local journals, radio and television, and it is also possible through advertisements because all these companies live on the resources they acquire on the market. I'm sure in this direction, there are real guards in this marriage, that this wouldn't be happening, no. In theory, they may even be imagined, they wrote their shares and so on, but there are no real fuses for this and I cannot specifically suggest, except that there is a general discussion of what to do, but I suggest a serious consideration of how to increase these real fuses so that we do not experience this in an excessive way, as some media houses have already done. And the last part is the question of how to understand and decide on pluralisation. I advise that we understand and enforce pluralisation in the broadest possible sense, through media coverage across Slovenia, through various media genres, and not primarily as pluralisation in a particular medium in a political sense. If the latter case is completely excluded or restricted to the minimum possible extent, then pluralisation will have its purpose, or it will be harmful, because we will not be able to avoid it, no one will act on what is politically neutral and politically balanced, in keeping with his beliefs and opinions. And that's not going to be objective, but it's going to be politically colored again and it's going to have its negative effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Marinič has the floor to prepare Mr Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The situation in the Slovenian media area dictates legal changes. Any government, any parliament in such or other coalition, should probably face the facts of the amendment in this area of marriage more than before in this mandate. I would like to stress the independence of the media, which is necessarily linked to the independence of the creators of individual programming content. And here, of course, I cannot go beyond the fact that, at the beginning of today's opening presentation, Dr Vasko Simoniti gave, where he said that at the time of the property transformation, also in the media space, especially on local media, many have changed ownership structure. It means that many software creators at certain local radio stations are also their owners. Of course, I have a very important question here. On the one hand, the entrepreneur, on the other hand, the creator of the content of a particular program. And when we talk about independence, of course, the big question is whether, as the owner, entrepreneur and as the one who creates a specific programming content, at this level, the media is trying to reach out to the one who receives, the real news, or to offer him the software content that the listener, reader or someone else wants. Here, of course, it is imperative to create conditions in order to achieve the goal, which is also largely given by the individual articles in the amendment to the media law that we are considering today at first reading, by means of the way and content. When we talk about local media, the amendment of the law in individual articles went so far as to try to regulate those areas in the Slovenian space, which we still call underdeveloped, less developed or some remote areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Here it must be admitted that unfortunately some households are in such locations that the signal, whether radio or television, is unattainable. The new law has gone so far as to offer individual owners, software content creators the opportunity to pay special attention in this respect, in order to enable these citizens and citizens living in such remote places in Slovenia to provide a signal. And here, the law also provides the basis for obtaining funds, which I will also discuss further. I am sure that, after the implementation of this law, there will probably be some minor amendments in the second and third readings, but for the benefit of those who accept the programme content. As far as the media pluralisation fund is concerned. If we looked back, we would have found that in the past several million were designed to pluralise the media, which are mainly at local level - I am talking about local, regional media - on the basis of the call for proposals, to meet the conditions and thus to obtain a special status, with various programming content, and given the achievement of these standards, they were also eligible for funding from the so-called RTV subscription, 3% of which the current law has classified as a fund for media pluralisation, and which represents almost 30% more than before when 3% of the RTV subscription was allocated. It's about a billion Slovenian tolars, which means we're talking about someone else being entitled to these funds. I believe that in the past - at least personally I do not know such cases - all those local media that wanted to reach these funds had to meet certain criteria in the tender. This means that they had to adapt and regulate the programme programme and, of course, meet the standard of eligibility. The new law makes this fund available again to those media who will meet certain criteria and will only be eligible under certain conditions. I'm sure we can't say that we can promise someone today if you work for this political option or for another political option, but you'll get so much out of this fund and so much. These are, of course, deals for perhaps an ostracism or something. Well, now let me also talk a little bit about the music we're listening to in these media. Again, I would like to give an emphasis to these local, regional media, because it seems to me that they are the most adaptable to that circle of listeners, viewers and viewers who are connected to some local events. In this strong globalisation of the digital future, it seems to me that we should think about preserving this cultural identity, language culture, music. And it may not be too much to recall a new law that defines this in its chapters or in its individual articles. I will only give a summary of the article, namely, the case of the use of the word association of Slovenian origin, which the law taxatically states in a particular novel. We must urgently take into account that this means that it can be a restriction of competition, which could be contrary to EU law. At the same time, foreign projects in Slovenia could appear together with Slovenian producers and could already be declared Slovenian origin, which would be an abuse of the law. However, if the word or expression is used, it is about promoting and preserving national culture or cultural identity, which is one of the fundamental principles of the EU or the European association. Here I think it is important that we look primarily at these expressions in the 67th or 15th article of the Media Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Lakhovnik. If he's not here, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you, President. Nice greetings to fellow Members, fellow Members and also to all those who care about today's novels and follow us through the media. I'm not going to go into the details of changes to the law myself. I will only touch on the following points, why it is necessary for something to move in this area and also in this area. I am convinced that the claim is that it is high time for additional media space to be formed. How important is the media? We all agree today that their role is not only great, but their role is huge. That's why they're not called the fourth branch of power. They certainly have a constitutional role to play in the establishment of democracy. I would further like to touch upon the challenge presented by my colleague Kumer of the SD Group of Members. None of the serious analysts can deny that our country is still in transition, that it is a transition state, so that we do not yet have sufficient and fully-formed democratic mechanisms. Mr. Kumer spoke about the media in connection with the judiciary. A good point, maybe he didn't realize it himself, but I don't think I'm going to say anything new, and I'm sure he himself knows that democracy in transition countries is first formed and first developed at the political level within the legislative and executive branch of government. A little later and slower, however, these steps are in other areas, in the judiciary and in the media. That is why probably all these resistances today, as well as the adoption of the law on the public RTV house. It is very sad that today you are also somehow creating an climate that demonizes the original democratic forces and, on the other hand, everything that comes from the former system or from the previous coalition is referred to as professional, broad and similar positive expressions. That's sand in your eyes, if I may express myself in your words. The media should be an avant-garde, they should open people up, spread their horizons, not offer them old ideological patterns, but of course I have to thank those media houses and those journalists who have come to know this and are also doing their part more or less and thus fulfilling their basic mission in this society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Kumer wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u160	Very short. My point was here on my own experience, although I come from a period that you are very critical of, but I have my own experience. Today, when I see what's going on inside the justice system, not the justice system itself, I get some nostalgia after the time I've been convicted of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor to prepare Mr. Hvauc. If he's not here, Mr. Tarchoon, if he's not here, Mr. Contic. Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u162	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the media law, and of course I wanted to hear something about it, but until now I have to say that there was not much of it. There have been some principled debates on the role of the media, their immeasurability, their wickedness and their wickedness, their goodness, how they should be and so on. I have worked in the media for 20 years, so I will avoid all these flat rates, high thoughts and, of course, low desires. However, I would like to touch on something that I think would be good for the applicant to take into account, but today it is a first reading, namely the financing of the media, not just local, regional, even those that are of a different importance. The practice to date was such that the media, which wanted to have some special status, had to fulfil this status very strongly, were under control in two ways. One of the controls was that they kept writing some reports on their work that had to be consistent with the notified programming scheme. The second surveillance was a coincidence, it says, you got a call to bring the footage, say, the show last week, and then they verified whether it really met all the requirements you had to meet, that you obviously had status. So, you always had to put it back, so you couldn't get anything out of the way. If you did that, of course, you only had a few very small ratings. With this you could compete on tenders which, of course, were not financed from 3%; this never came to life, but it was written in the law. However, I am sure that the media would be better able to enforce their plurality in order to make it easier for them to do what they have to do in order for editors and journalists to do their work, to do things much better if they were regulated. So if you're satisfied with all these statuses, it means that if you meet all the conditions that you have status, and if you always do positive checks, then you're entitled to some funding. That would make sense, and that would make sense. With this, we, too, in the National Assembly - but now it doesn't matter who's in power - can't keep on showing that it's some weird business in the back, that, by virtue of commitment, by definition, these funds are being allocated. If they go into status, then they are assigned from a status that you have to continue to enforce and confirm, and it is controlled by a broadcasting council or agency. It seems to me that it would be good to put into marriage if we were to change it; now is the moment. The other thing I'm missing in this marriage is that the changes are actually based on just one four fields, and I just said one. The second field is the field of right of reply and correction. This would not be the case now, because it was really too much or very much already said and it is obvious that the matter will have to be limited to being an individual, to being a citizen, and then all that is true, or to reducing something there. This seems to me to be a smart solution because a citizen is not protected here, the institutions are too much anyway. One field is the one that talks about setting up media houses. In fact, it was already evident in the previous law or now in force in 2000, that no minimum criteria and minimum standards have been laid down for anyone to set up a media house at all. And now, of course, we have a lot of these jukeboxes of radio and television stations, then newspapers written by students for free or only for the profit of the owner, this also applies to radio and television stations, for internet, for example, pages where students or just those who know do it for free; when they complain or ask for some money to pay, they replace them. And that's how it goes. The criteria go down. Those serious media, and the media that employs people with sufficient education, which they also teach, are failing in this competitive fight. And here the market is collapsing in some way, because this part is all going through the grey and black economy. But the law of essential criteria, I don't know, three graduate journalists, two techniques and so on, doesn't want to set up, even though I could do it. And that would also limit the number of all these radio and television stations, the clocks that are so large anyway, and the thing is so plural that it's already disturbing that you can't actually select all the information you're getting anymore. On the other hand, of course, this information is usually very, very poorly processed because it is not at the back or knowledge, nor of any special will. Maybe there's a little more joy than that, and there's some desire for gain. These are the things that have turned out in these years. There's another thing that bothers me a little bit, or surprises me, which is the height of punishment. Some penalties are such that, in fact, they take away a particular medium from, say, half a year or a quarter of a year's traffic, which is 15, 20 million. That's a lot of money for little media outlets. For example, for failure to respect advertising minotaurs, such a punishment is at stake, but it is not written down in what time it should be. So it's a one-time overrun of those nine minutes an hour, or it's multiple consecutive. Thus, the things that will still need to be corrected in further consideration, supplemented, spilt, or otherwise I do not think that the law as such is so essentially different from now on. The part that talks about the concentration of ownership is improved, which I think is good. Of course, what kind of thing is quite right and I think it is also to support if, of course, this matter, which I have warned about, is being corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you. He has a word, Mr. Contic. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not discuss the disputed regulation of the law, which has been dealt with in public and sets out the rules and scope of the application of the amendment. Personally, I think that the correction must be possible, but not to such a large extent, because it will also have to be determined how it will be corrected, because the correction can also be a misstatement and then, of course, it must follow a correction that can also deny this untruth. It's kind of foreign for me to divide people into common people, and if they're common on one side, then they're unusual on the other side. And I firmly hope, and I'm sure at least most of us don't judge us in this unusual way. However, each individual should have the right to tell the truth if it has been challenged in public media. It is very important to establish this law, which is enshrined in 4a. the article provides for the development and co-financing of programme content of local, regional, student or non-profit radio or television programmes. I also recall well the attack on the amendment that I, as a first-signed Member, proposed, had on the law on RTV and the law on media in the previous term. Only once the intervention was successful and a 3% share of the RTV subscription was determined for the financing of local, regional and student radio and television stations. This was also decided by the Constitutional Court, which warned that the procedure was not the right one, but I am still convinced that the solution proposed would be feasible. The status and control of this status that each becomes acquired would be important. I am now afraid that the composition of the Commission, appointed by the Minister of Culture and the Government, will be of particular importance, with the introduction of a method, procedure, conditions and criteria for the implementation of regular calls for proposals. The likelihood that the choice will be subordinated to the political objectives of the ruling coalition is high. I also believe this because I still remember how the agreements on the funds that were collected but not shared were taking place, and it was the Ministry of Culture that intervened. I am therefore afraid that the funds will be allocated with proportionality, with a kindness to government policy, will be wrapped up in a envelope which, under this law, is called taking into account the project for the realization of public interest in the media. The problem of the government coalition is that it does not take time and also looks at its solutions from the point of view that it may be in opposition tomorrow. This conclusion is certainly not new, and we have had this disease in recent years. As I said in the introduction, years ago as a coalition Member, I received support from the then opposition, the current coalition. If the government coalition then listened to locals and regionals, funding would have been arranged for several years. This way we will now get a solution that is not good and gives too much role to every government and minister or minister of culture. In the end, let me say that I am fortunately convinced that everything cannot be bought and that even the vast majority of people, where, of course, I also involve journalists, are not for sale. Press contributions are the best when none of the politicians are most satisfied with them, and this does not mean that they are not. They may even be comments we don't like, but that's the job we do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Brenčič should be prepared, if not, and Mr Horvat Jožef.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! This debate on the media law has been going on for some time now. When it became clear that a new media law was being prepared, this news itself came upon a strong hall effect in our media, especially in the opposition, as if it were something outrageous and sinful. And the first reactions to the draft law were unappreciative, totally repulsive, the lack of expertise, the lack of opportunity to express their opinions and so on. And then there was a public hearing of the opinions on this law. I must say that I even followed the debate, and I participated in it, and, of course, I was surprised that the profession had suddenly erupted. These famous professions in this hall, when it was an opportunity for this profession to be presented in front of the entire Slovenian television audience, this profession was almost absent. Even the opposition, just enough to breathe. And one wonders what this opposition really wants. Does she have any ideas, freshness, how to correct this media law in this area, which she traditionally actually controlled because she had all the levers? I am firmly convinced or realized that there is no idea that he only wants to maintain his position. Of course I understand them from this position. In every way to preserve the situation as an unbroken Bastille, of course it is legitimate, but you must admit that the media situation in our country was something special, that there was no balance here today that disturbs you and even less plurality, in fact in many media or in the whole area. And you can say that the situation was balanced or that the colleague of Potation earlier said that if it were a serious analysis, it would have turned out that this talk of impurity would have collapsed into dust and ashes. Then we must note that the colleague of Potrate has not read Slovenian media so far. Otherwise, it's a job to be able to read newspapers and find out something like that, I don't think. You know, Croatia doesn't take after I don't know what kind of democracy. At least it's not for once. You, too, who are now in the opposition, were able to be extremely critical, sometimes fair, but in the media field, but in the field of printed media, there was much more plurality. Significantly more. I agree, however, that the change in power has made the media more plural in us. We can make sure of that every day, and I look forward to such situations. It's medicinal for society to have good control, very strict control, and I have nothing against it. Even from yesterday's debate, when we talked about the Veterans Act, I don't know which newspaper, of course, the opposition is much better presented than the position. The arguments of the position are not given, those outside the parliamentary groups, but I have no objection to that. Today, a large part of the stakeholders, although the third programme is not fully established, but people are watching. I see the reactions, they see me, they hear me, they respond. So speaking the opposition, which so unilaterally attacks, is no longer effective. It will also be necessary to know how to make arguments between correct assessments and not just cheap demagogies. When we talk about whether there is a need to promote pluralism through certain funds, I think so. Since your claim that Slovenian media are balanced or plural, which is contrary to the US Ministry of Human Rights report, this claim is not true. The case of the responsible editor of Del, too, is, of course, sad that such a house is, in fact, not able to find a responsible editor in some way because of such a situation. You're going to say that balance is that if a very respected police officer, a journalist who I think was able to criticize one side or another, resists almost the entire collective. How do we explain this to ourselves? They don't want a high-quality journalist for an editor, or they're an unbalanced group that hasn't been able to provide in the paper the plurality of writing. I think it's closer. I am also sure of this on the basis of the fact that I listened to the Intelekta a long time ago on how the media can influence public opinion. And Mr Koshir, the former editor, was a little bit forgotten, he was politically awkward, and he said how they conduct, how they staged a campaign from Del to join NATO. He said when we attacked, and we agreed, it was almost this way to show that the referendum was going to fail. But then we agreed differently, based on some discussions from a power center, it had to come, but things changed quickly. I have to commend him. He's been very honest. I can't say as well as I have told you how they biased this matter and I'm aware of your bias at the time. I followed her, but not on the basis of this, even the revealed confessions, the rumors that everything was fine with us in the media field, to hear even, or else I don't mind if one crocodile tears in the past tenses flow and nostalgia in the past, as was said earlier, but such a situation was not right in my opinion. Look, in this area it will be necessary to take steps forward. In our country, the situation is such that although we do not yet have this balance among the daily newspapers, in my opinion it is impossible to establish a serious newspaper in Slovenia at all times, so as to be the only yellow newspaper that can be commercially successful. And I don't know if this condition is completely healthy. I must say that the previous situation is also responsible for such a low level of media awareness that only the yellow newspapers can prosper, that they can be successful, that all attempts of a serious daily newspaper have failed. I think that the law that we have today in our consideration is aimed in the right direction to solve the real problems. That he may still need to be balanced in one of the areas. There may also be one area of correction or response that may require some minimum adjustments. However, we must not speak in general, but we must come with concrete issues and not merely panic. It is probably also the area of music on the art program, for example, on the Ars program - I myself received some warnings that the matter here is more complex. Yes, for example, this creation of classical music, although the author of this music is a foreigner, but it is created by our musicians, that it is not clear here where it belongs, either among domestic music or among foreign music. I think that, in any case, this musical creation belongs to domestic art, and that there is, for example, some other finesse that will be in the common good of this country and of the citizens of this country. And in this way we will come to a very good law that will allow for a significantly better situation in this area, so that Slovenia will not remain a relic of past times in the media field, in some way the relic of the totalitarian system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, you have not been quoted as misinterpreting. Were you? Mr. Jerovšek, did you name her? Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I would like to tell my professionally qualified colleague Jerovšek that I too read something. And so the introduction says, where the plurality of the media space in Slovenia [[End warning sign]] estimated that it is large, however, when the bill's proponent excuses media pluralisation or state subsidies, but talks about it [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u169	So, later you can apply again, yes. Mr. Horvath has the floor. Mr Gantar, if he is not there, Mr Pukšič, if he is not there, and Mrs Eva Irgl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr Minister with co-worker, welcome! [[The ad in the hall.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Initially, I would like to express my surprise that, in this seven-month birth of this proposal, the law on amendments and additions to the media law has raised enormously, in my opinion, far too much dust in relation to the so-called right to correction. My personal conviction is that the right to correction with the proposed law is not being extended. The right to correction is clearly recorded in the 40th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but not since yesterday and this article would not be read here today. The right to correction is, in my opinion, the fundamental cornerstone of media democracy and the price of democracy at all. If we are guaranteed equality and the right to free articulation of opinions and if the publicist has the right to criticism, he must be prepared to accept the criticisms of his writing. The right to correction was not introduced in order to fill the blanks in the media, but mainly because of imbalances and superficial reporting of journalists. And it is these journalists and the media who are doing their work in contravention of the key provisions of the press code, such as truthfulness and verification of information, objectivity and impartiality that can today be such a fear of criticism. Those journalists who do their work responsiblely, professionally and according to ethical standards have nothing to fear. I'm sure there's more. Since independence, one of the key problems of journalism is the separation standard of journalistic genres, which dictates a strict boundary between reporting, i.e. informational and judgmental or interpretational genres. Unfortunately, these borders are being wiped out today, and more and more contributions are being made under the cover of the press report, which is subjective and therefore biased, meaning that the public is not fully informed. Hybrid journalistic contributions are also stacked around changes to the media law. The so-called extension of the right to correction means the burial of freedom of expression, is written in one of the media. The media simply took the position of opponents of changes to the law if these are part of the professional public they need to be trusted without having to examine the changes of the law on their own. What is most problematic is that they have evaluated the law themselves, which is not allowed in the press report. One of the views of the government by opponents of the law is that by adopting amendments to the media law, the government will become a co-formor of media content, which it is allowed to do now and has not exploited. Even if you were to take advantage of the right of correction from now on, you would have dug your own pit in the long run. Violence creates only antipathy in democratic societies. Otherwise, the right to correction is not only in the government's domain, but also in the opposition and in every citizen. I want to say that I have no problems with the proposed amendments to the media law, and I will be happy to support this law. There are only two facts of concern. Maybe I'll put them in the wrong place. The first problem is that the law does not explicitly define eroticism and pornography anywhere. It's not clear where the line is. Advertisers and the media are so left to themselves. The border that separates erotica from pornography should not be so fluid. The other problem is everyone can be a journalist. It would make sense to lay down the criteria that an individual should meet for such a demanding and therefore responsible work. On the other hand, only those individuals who are regularly employed by the publisher and those who are registered as individual journalists can be named under the Journalist Act. [[...]] The question is whether those who do journalistic work should not be represented as journalists. I also welcome the fact that the law also provides the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the development and co-financing of programme content of radio and television programmes with the status of local, regional, student or non-profit radio and television programmes. Of course, after weighing some of this money, it will always be too much, according to others. However, I think it is good that local radio and television programmes are well fed and, in my opinion, are mostly doing well. And the final thought or message that I would like to give and for which he encouraged me, in his debate, my esteemed colleague Barovic, when he spoke about the frequency allocation. I want to tell you, some of you probably already know that Radio Fire has been working for several years to gain frequency or to be able to listen in Prekmurje or Pomurje. You won't believe you won't hear from Radio Firefire in Pomur. Someone ordered that right in Prekmurje and the right Radio Fireplace should not be heard. You're not gonna believe this. I believe. For several years the efforts of Radio Fire are ongoing, and several thousand signatures have been collected in Prekmur and there is no effect. I hope that this law will too, and that the relevant institutions will check whether the cap was too small or too small in some roles that the application was rejected. And I'm asking you gathered here to help me guess why Radio Fireplace and why exactly in Prekmurje the ban on trying? Thank you very much for your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs Irgl has the floor to prepare Mr Kramberger. If he's not here, Mr. Milan Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Today, of course, we are talking about an important law, a law on the media, which covers two fundamental meanings. Media plurality and plurality in the media. With this last concept, we met for a long and wide, very extensive time when we passed the law on RTV Slovenia. Media plurality mainly refers to the richness of programme content, as people are also, of course, entitled to timely and, above all, impartial and objective information. The fact is that the media and their journalists are obliged to report on a problem, an event, including a state of affairs in the country, from different angles, with mixed views on some issue that is being addressed. In particular, they are obliged to present their interpretation of the matter in an correct and accurate manner. This applies mainly to the verification of information which must be recorded in a credible and fair manner. In my opinion, the new media law brings better, more appropriate solutions in the media field than have been so far. Of course, the law brings quite a bit of news, perhaps just mentioning some of those who seem important, namely that it is necessary to provide conditions for media pluralism by creating funding for the programming content of the media. The other thing that seems important to me is the protection of children and minors from pornographic content in both print and electronic media. There is a need to ensure greater weight for the protection of Slovenian language and also for Slovenian music creators, especially their creativity. I very much agree with the new provision that the sections within the broadcasts and the naming of new media that can still be established in the media field can only be named in the Slovenian language. As colleague Barovic said in his presentation of the Group's position, we are Slovenians. We must take care of our own national identity, even today, when we are a member of the European Union. After all, we must also seriously respect this provision because of the pride that we must maintain on our own due to the concern for those generations that are still coming after us. In her debate, I would also like to touch or partially correct the words of Ambassador Majda Širc, who, in her opening presentation of the position of the Polish Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia negligently or unwillingly deceived the public when she said that a solution was disputed for them, what was called the Council for Broadcasting, which was to be named after a new National Assembly. The Member of the Council, of course, held silent that even after the current law, the members of the Council are appointed by the National Assembly on the proposal of certain institutions. Of course, this is not about any significant change, the change is only in the breadth of the proposing circle, which members can propose. They are, of course, appointed by the National Assembly, as is the case with the law in force so far. The law also clearly defines, of course, the tasks of the broadcasting world, which is defined as an independent expert consultative body. I would also like to touch on a subject that is currently the most violent of spirits and has been covered with ink, as well as with a lot of sharp words. Of course, I'm talking about the right to correction. Here it must be stressed that this is the right of every citizen, every citizen and every institution, which is enshrined in the 40th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is the exercise of this right, which is enshrined in the chapter on human rights and fundamental freedoms, which expressly states in Article 15 that these rights shall not be restricted by anything. The opposition, as well as a large part of journalists, is trying to express this right to correction in a way that is an intervention in autonomy and the thinking of journalists, which is certainly wrong. This is primarily about protecting a man who has the right to deny lies, untruths, unverified information recorded in some media. Of course, this in the first place brings a more responsible attitude toward what he wrote. The right to correction is, in the first place, a weaker right, as an individual against the media is always in a weaker position. Cases of regret are known, and incorrect data has not been made possible for people to exercise the constitutional right to correction or reply. This extension of the right to correction also leads to greater professionalism in the media in my opinion, particularly in order to increase the responsibility to do so. On Saturday’s work, Peter Jančič showed very well what the abuse of journalistic position is when you try to show on the one hand that the right to correction interferes with journalistic autonomy, and on the other hand you do not react when citizens or citizens are violated by fundamental integrity and dignity because of what someone wrote down. I would therefore like to conclude my debate with his words in this column, which say, "The press community will be strong if we can agree on how to regulate our own species, if we are able to enforce the minimum rules to be followed and we will know how to punish those who violate them." This is the usual responsibility of the owners and editors of the largest media houses in Europe. If we can't do this, if we don't share at least minimum common values, order will do justice and order will do politics. Then you remember everyone who is still quiet, of course, when the rights of citizens and citizens to correction are violated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Mrs. Shirca, were you appointed? Here you go. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u174	Miss Irgle, you can read Jančič's texts, but you can't read Simonita's texts, or you can't read them autonomously, because you're saying that the world for broadcasting is now called the National Assembly, as it was before. Yeah, right. But earlier it was proposed by a society of journalists, cultural chambers, chambers of commerce, etc. Yeah, that's not the same thing, because you go to school, because we're on the same chapter as RTV Slovenia, when the world called KVIAZ and called it, we know in what ways, with crop leaves.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. He's quitting. Mr Miro Petek has the floor to prepare Mrs Zalokar Orazem if she is not there, Mr Švagan, if he is not there, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in this Assembly Hall! I think we all agree more or less that changes to the media law are necessary. In recent times, there have been the most debates about the correction and the response about this law, which has taken me by surprise. The right to reply and correction is, of course, a constitutional category and the apparent dissemination of this right are unfounded. There is never too much human rights. We will all disagree on this, and the right of reply and correction are also among these human rights. Correction is ultimately a constitutional category in Slovenia and, of course, a civilizational acquisition. Journalism is not in vain called the seventh force, and it is a force that must be regulated in some way and can be regulated most by this institution of correction or the right of reply. Those who seek correction in the media who seek the right of reply must in some way have more rights, in some way have more rights to supply, because the right to correction or answer is, after all, only a modest patch on what has happened to a reader, viewer or listener before, because no correction can fix the damage that has been done to him. During these months there has also been a lot of talk about correcting the comment. Some say that correction should not sit in a comment. That's right. The correction is an interpretive journalistic type, this is the opinion of the writer and this opinion of the writer is, of course, sacred and there is no way to challenge it. However, a comment must be based on facts, in truth, a comment must not include lies, fables, untruths. So it's not about correcting the comment, it's about, it can only be about correcting the wrong facts contained in some comment. And if someone builds a comment on the wrong facts, on the lies, on the wrong assumptions, then of course this comment cannot be credible. And, as has been said here today, the biggest problem with Slovenian journalism is that journalists do not stick to genres. Journalists' genres aren't clean, we've got comments and stuff. In college, we were taught that there must be a comment, a conscience, a report. Today it's more or less insane. Article 31 of the Act gives the responsible editor a rather broad possibility when the correction or response is also rejected. It is important to me that part which says that the responsible editor may refuse the correction if the correction requested does not deny, in any way, the particulars in the notification and does not indicate or show other or contrary facts and circumstances and so on. The responsible editor already has today and will also have in the future the possibility of various village special, various presidents of various societies and organisations, various professional writers simply reject the letters of readers, of course they will also have the opportunity to seek their rights in court and so on. With months and years, case law will be developed, and judicatures will be formed, and courts will be followed. Today, in Slovenia, we can count on one or two years of justice when someone in court is looking for this right or wants to get a newspaper or the media to publish a correction. There will probably be a little more in the future, but we must not expect or predict that there will be a flood of answers or corrections. I experienced relatively few repairs and answers myself in a 20-year-old press blast. Likely, readers sometimes or certainly did not respond and exercise these rights. It is bad for the journalist and the media to experience constant corrections, objections, because it in some way undermines the credibility of the writer and undermines the credibility of the media while at the same time media and journalists can gain this credibility if they immediately publish the correction and if they apologize for their mistakes, they admit the error. I was on my own today at the Court of Justice in Slovenj Gradec, because a gentleman is suing me for articles from 1998 to 2001. This gentleman has never exercised the right to correction, the right of reply. I am pleased that he has served after 2001, after trying to eliminate me, this path of justice and this trial has now been going on for 4,5 years. Today's Journal writes a colleague of Rok Praprotnik about this gentleman, I hope that Mr Rok Praprotnik will experience a correction, an answer or at least a complaint that he will not experience anything worse. It's a good thing we're talking about these things in court. It's bad to solve these things with a baseball bat. I am surprised by the opposition's opposition that they believe it is about spreading the correction or response, while at the same time in recent months they claim that the ruling coalition has taken over all the media. Remember the press conferences, the LDS said that the coalition took over the media harshly, uncompromisingly and Commissionerly. If that were true, colleagues and colleagues, then you need just that right, the right to correction and the right to answer. Let this be a broad right. If the media were yours first and now, if the media are ours now, then we don't need the right to answer and correct. We are now spreading this right nicely, and I do not know why this is disturbing for some. In this law, this right will only be strengthened and further enforced. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about journalistic self-regulation. I hope that this debate on media law will also bring about some reflection on media or press ombudsmen. I myself witnessed in London's Guardian, where they have a very well-established internal ombudsman institute. Journalists at first looked at this institution in a foreign way, bothered them that someone within their ranks had corrected, criticized their work, and that it was also published. Corrections and declarations are columns that Mr. Ian Mayers in the Guardian regularly publishes and also publishes in books. And this column, this column of his, has become a cult, followed by many other officers in England and elsewhere in the world. In this way, the ombudsmen make contact with readers, chat with them in a friendly way, and the matter has been taken over in these circles, even the Russian Ombudsman has a media ombudsman, even Brazilian officers have an internal media ombudsman and, of course, this is an entirely independent institution. In some countries, they do not sit in the same buildings as the newspapers, but even this institution is spatially separated. And in the end, I would like to congratulate that media house in Slovenia, which will be the first to introduce the media ombudsman institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor. Here you go. Let Mr Saiovic prepare, if he is not there, and Ljublješek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you. One of my colleagues, I've got 45 seconds, he said, "What if there's an untruth in the correction?" He put up an antipath, the journalist writes only and only the truth. So what's the truth? The truth is the editor's right. That's what we want. We'll never let that happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Ljubeljšek has the floor to prepare Mr Posede if he is not there, Mr Squeakl, if he is not there, Mr Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you very much. In changing and supplementing the media law, the most important awareness of all of us is that the power of words and images is exceptional. That there is nothing more powerful in the world than words, and that the word of man can kill. Freedom of the press and speech, objectivity, plurality, balance and impartiality are values of the developed world. Our media is not something that is outside of Slovenian space and is not intended for itself, and so we have received the third media law in the last decade. The amendment of the law is mainly disputed for some in the articles on the right to correction and the right to reply. That's what I'm going to focus on next. It is true that the Media Act has specified the constitutional principle of the right to correction and the right to reply, because the media have power and every power must have clear rules and restrictions. The right to correction is a weaker right as an individual against the media is always in a subordinate position. However, for example, the Department of Journalism believes that the extended right to correction brings a number of possible complications and associated pressures on the independence, criticalness and credibility of journalists and editors. No one will convince me that this law will endanger media freedom. However, it will likely hurt those who publish unverified or malicious information. We need this law to prevent any unjustified or false criticism, resentment, or even pity. We need the exact right to correction in particular and also because no one in this world is intruding, not even journalists and not editors. We need serious media that can be trusted, as well as the yellow and client press, because all of this is an integral part of today's time and space. There are many among the journalists and editors that I appreciate and respect because I think they are honest and honest people and because they may be unwittingly reputed to the press and the media they work for. However, we must admit whether we like it or not, that on the other hand there are also stories that are inaccurate, unfair, biased, where lies are also recorded and where a situation is used where there is no respect for rules or values that are also recorded in the Slovenian press code. If I quote the statement, "No one will dictate to us what we can and cannot do. We will not give up our freedom of the press." I'm sure no one's going to mind to limit media freedom, but I still don't think democracy is anarchy. And that in the name of his freedom he should know how to stand before the freedom of another. And that, on behalf of your freedom and autonomy, everyone else's freedom and autonomy must also be respected. Human dignity is untouchable. He needs to be respected and protected. I would like to point out that we need critical media to monitor illegal behaviour in society and the country, while at the same time protecting those affected by false allegations and even lies. It is also the mission of the media that ordinary citizens can also come to the floor. Those who advocate objective reporting can only help and do no harm to that legal arrangement. However, objective reporting certainly stems from a human fundamental point of view, seeking the truth, reporting facts impartially and eventually acting professionally. No one in this country can have a monopoly on the truth. My contention is that the concerns of the affected people to regulate newspapers, television and radio programs are untrue. Corrections are related to the quality and professionality of the journalistic work. And with respect to the code. However, if we are to do wrong to someone, we must correct it in the most equal manner possible, in the name of justice and truth. No matter how sorry we are, some values are forgotten and others are ignored. Interesting is the record of a well-known journalist quoted as saying: "an even more drastic solution when it comes to the right to correction and the answer was sought by the LDS government after a sudden process at the end of the previous millennium". Therefore, the criticism of the current proposal for amendments to the law on the media of the opposition or of colleagues from the LDS is difficult to accept. I have attended the public debate on this bill mainly to hear specific professional proposals, initiatives and opinions. Above all, those media professionals who have been very critical in the past months to work without the possibility of an exchange of views, but unfortunately this professional public did not want an exchange of views at all. In the year and a half of my work in politics, I have come to a number of conclusions and conclusions, an objective and balanced presentation of political action and positions, in particular political positions and opposition. I am aware that journalists alone, whose work is difficult, stressful, unforeseeable, are often underpaid. However, I would expect to report objectively, in a balanced and professional manner, regardless of whether a political party or their option is closer to them. With all my respect for the media, which are part of our daily lives and without them, I say to the editors and journalists that with the amendments and additions to the media law, their work will not be reduced in any way if their work is fair, objective and professional, with respect for human dignity, which is untouchable and must be protected. Let me conclude by summarizing the thought of Dr. Trstenjak, "I trust in Slovenian honesty, with which we have spent the millenniums when you are gone, we will fall as a nation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Sok. Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Squeakle. No, he gave up. Here you go, Mr. Grimes. Get Mr. Sok ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you, President, for your word. I'd like to continue right where Mr. Miro Petek stopped. In fact, with us, not only is it a problem, because individual comments and reports are mixed, which of course is also in conflict with the principles of journalistic ethics - those who have ever looked far from looking at these rules are very well aware - but with us sometimes even with a comment try to replace the report. Instead of reporting an event, some statement, something related to a person, is just worth it. And if this person at least tries to explain what she actually said, what happened, but it's said, no, no, you can't answer anything about it, because that's our comment, and that's our sacred opinion. But this is really a grave violation of the constitutional right to information, because people, in fact, what happened, what that person said, can never know at all. And, of course, a grave violation of this person's right, because it is characterized by everything that is possible. In one of the cases that were publicized, someone was confronted by a third Reich storm without saying a word about what that person had just said. In this regard, I must say that there is also a very interesting letter from the academics Prof. Dr. Kos, which I received a few days ago. [[If there is an interest, I am happy to give it to you.]] which points to something else - an uncritical summary of the obvious insults, and then the person who sums up the insult hides behind the "I did, because this has already been written in another newspaper that this person is this and that" or something like that. And in all comparable arrangements, from America to Europe, it is considered that the summation of insults means the burden of the regulation that does this because it is clearly a violation of human integrity, which, by correct abstraction and reference, no longer has anything to do with it. In this context, a few more words about correction. I must say that when I listen to these stories about extending the right to correction, because this syntagma is very often used - even a few people who used it here today have said some insults to my account, I don't know why. Let me remind you that the article of the Constitution, which I will read, is Article 40, the right to correction and reply, says: "The right to correction of the published notice affecting the right or interest of an individual, organisation or body is guaranteed and the right to reply to the published information is also guaranteed." This article, which thus gives everyone the right, whether it is the right or the interest of an individual to respond to the correction, is written so widely that it is not possible to disseminate it at all. And more than that, once again, I warn you what I said at the outset, it is written in that chapter of the Constitution, in which article 15 states: [[This is a chapter on human rights]] does not allow any re-establishment of these rights. So, if we really accept this logic that something is spreading now, then this constitutional standard has clearly been violated so far. So there's obviously something different here that's being interpreted. From this point of view, I would only point out that April 1st is only three days away. So, colleagues, let's calm down the debate - the repair is a mirror mirror. In fact, if the medium is a mirror, the repair is a mirror. And those who intend to report honestly will certainly not defend themselves because they will never be taken into account; just as they do in television. But those who fear it probably already know why. And let's see who this story is with transmissions, direct transmissions, and the fifth remodeling of thorns, in fact, will be clear quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Sok. Get Mrs. Shirca ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you, for your word. Mr President, the Honourable Minister with his colleagues. Of course, we in New Slovenia are not surprised that this law has experienced so much publicity in the public, we are all obviously very well aware of the power in the media and I think my fellow Member, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, had this very good argument. Of course, this debate has received the greatest attention from this very part, which is called the right to correction. I understand that journalists do not want this right, I understand how they would not want it, because however, through the number of corrections, their work is being measured somehow, and it will be possible to measure it in the future. You have journalists who will not have any corrections, but you also have journalists who will have a lot of these corrections, and in fact, the employer will be able to ask what about this journalist who is experiencing this number of corrections to his texts. The essence is also what has already been said; the journalist can be a little less than anyone today. So if you want to be a doctor you have to finish medical school if you want to be, I don't know, a mathematician etc., for everything you have to do some kind of professional specialization, but a journalist can be the essence of every school and there are a lot of these journalists who haven't even completed a proper education and then, of course, we get in the public eye this image as it is today. We should, of course, go for truthfulness. I think that this would be the basic orientation of the media and when the media listens to this debate, when journalists listen, they have to ask themselves what we have done all the time to experience such a strong debate in this regard. Is the independence of the media completely self-evident? What did these journalists, who published the cartoons of the prophet Muhammad, do? Many people have suffered and suffered because of them and because of their work, some have been killed. Did they know what this was bringing? Is it true, then, that every journalistic independence is permissible, that I do not think it is permissible, and that here, in fact, politics has that possibility and that it is the right, in some particular segment, to go into this. My colleague Bevk practically pulled me out of the language, he said somehow that I took advantage of the public presentation of opinions here in the National Assembly, but I have to answer him, until the public presentation of the opinion was everyone's right here, so also I, if I have just more opportunities to tell the public a lot more opportunities to publicize my opinions than the other citizens. But here in front of the auditorium I tried on a case that happened two, three days before the public hearing here in Parliament, to show the injustice that happened to me, for example, when the journalist wrote the obvious untruth across the page, then he apologized in one small box and he didn't really write what I wrote yesterday. I say about you, Comrade Bevk, I say you are this and this, and then you prove to the Slovenian public the next day that you are not. You can't accomplish anything with this correction. It's just an extra feature, and those who are not interested are interested in going to read what he wrote earlier. And if we do not change something ethically and morally in this area, then this right to correction will not help us. But we all look at each other and try to be an open society, a tolerant society, a society where we will respect and understand each other. That is why I also understand this effort and this effort to establish some fund for pluralisation and that the media that will meet these criteria will also in some way be rewarded with subsidies for this reporting. Of course, this fund needs to be organised so that the policy impact on the distribution of this money is negligiblely small, because I understand that if politics has an impact, then, of course, these journalists in the fight for this money will forget their basic mission and will not be journalists, but I could say more so when they used to be some sort of Janis. Some of you say that the media is a mirror of reality. Of course, if this mirror is right, no one needs to fear this mirror. The problem is when it's wrong when it shows the wrong picture. Then there's the problem. So it would, of course, be necessary to pull the emergency brake and to change such reporting. The plurality of reporting, the intense communication you know, and today, in the age of the Internet, it can be measured very quickly how some media reports something. Very fast. Otherwise, we have our own judgment on this and we are probably never going to get completely caught in this segment. I'm going to say, like that citizen who belongs to a group of Christians in this country, I can say, of course, that these ignorances through the media and these other classes are used and I'm actually comfortable seeing foreign media give recognition to the Slovenes. In foreign media they are rewarded, they are made for this and that, and at home we try to minimize it, to put it into nothing, and then we say that the Slovenians would like to be a great nation in Europe. With such an approach, we will never be a great nation; we cannot be, for if we do not respect ourselves, of course others will not respect us. I still have a little time, so I'd like to touch one thing. I must say that I have been waiting since 2003 for this moment so that I can say this before the National Assembly. In 2003, a citizen, Muvič, wrote himself, pointed out a great deal of violence on one to cable television. It was about showing hard pornography. There's been a lot of talk about that today. At the time, I think it was Palk. [[?]] who was in charge of this, he issued one decision and then we banned it from them. [[...]] Then we are in Parliament or you are in Parliament as you say today, you have adopted one authentic interpretation of Article 84 of the Media Act. Of course, I could never agree with this authentic explanation, but, among other things, it is forbidden to display the scenes of unjustified violence, unjustified violence, as if violence were also justified, such as the torture of people and animals and so on. [[...]] Then says this authentic explanation, pornography such as zoophilia, netrophilia, paedophilia, sadomashoism, sadism, rape and other contents of disgust and violence in pornography, while in fact it was written in the following paragraph, the contents which may harm the mental, moral or physical development of children and minors and therefore their performance is limited to 24 to 5 a.m. These programme content includes all shows of sex and violence that can be classified within socially acceptable aesthetic and moral criteria. So one such authentic explanation was adopted, and according to this authentic explanation, and after the still valid media law, those who saw it could, but I was warned on March 18th, this is from Saturday to Sunday, look at an issue on RTV Ljubljana, which I could smooth, it was a Japanese film the Empire felt, which I could smoothly place on my moral and aesthetic criteria, into a hard pornographic content. So some, of course, see something else in this. The question is, of course, what is the impact of such and similar content on our youth and on our Slovenian and European society in general.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs Shirca has the floor to prepare himself for the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u186	Dear Sok! According to Article 10(1), in theory, Slovenia could, of course, request the responsible editor of RTV to hold another extraordinary meeting at well-known extraordinary meetings if someone recognized that he was not exactly ordinary. Not only what the journalist did, but also what you said, I could have had the right if I felt that it was enough for the conditions, it is said that there is no correct claim. Theoretically, this is possible, and we don't have to go blind about it. I just wanted to say that today we're facing some kind of therapy for all those that the media don't show in their real mirror. I feel for these, today we have heard that our journalists are janeg kneading, of course I feel not Janšev, the janeg kneading, of course I feel embarrassed, and I am also embarrassed that this National Assembly has taken over the role of the Faculty of Social Sciences and has spoken and given the press instructions on what real journalism is. [[...]] Let me return to many misreadings and interpretations of the law. First of all, Mr Grims gave today a model Swedish grant distribution model, but Mr Grims, you just forget half and take what you like, it's a very common practice and also a successful one, by the way, but if no one denies you, then your truth is true and your truth is not true. The Swedish co-financed a newspaper, which is second in power on the market, their subsidies are selected for weak newspapers, but it is up to the press world, which a body appointed and selected by the minister, is financed from 4% advertising taxes. Not to talk about all the other models, because I can't. Media pluralisation is achieved by means of indirect aid, in a more democratic way than by giving someone to pay for it to suit your conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would say something about when it was said about the broadcasting world, what they are called and who proposes them, but if we turn to 634, it says 'no matter what the provisions of the preceding paragraph are, the State Assembly may also choose between candidates who submit their applications themselves if they are experts in the field of the preceding paragraph'. Well, with regard to what we have talked and also just heard how television, RTV and these programmes are being subsidized, and if we go in line with this state support to the media, I would say that it was written in 2004, 20 March, in a law proposed by the previous authorities, that the media law also introduced three financial support mechanisms, namely, to create programming content and develop technical infrastructure, to produce Slovenian audiovisual works and to local, radio and television programmes, regional radio and television programmes, student radio and television programmes, and non-profit radio and television programmes. So this high assembly has also dealt with this and fully agreed, irrespective of Swedish or any other models, to support and subsidise these programmes. And these programs are, given that there's a lot of talk about how the minister is going to call political and extremely, because so far everything has been fine, so something has happened. That for all these three things that I have listed and even in the present law still exist, the Commissions appointed by the Minister or Minister and these Commissions, which have been gathered by the highest standards, and if you would like, I will read your names to see who was on these committees, the famous experts themselves, elected in a non-political manner, despite the fact that the politicians of the minister he chose have distributed a billion million, but could have distributed a billion four hundred million, but I don't know, the Minister of Finance has obviously not approved, and they have distributed as many as one billion 100 million. And at the time, no one was asking questions about the criteria. That's interesting. And in Article 78, you now have a valid law, and it is of course extremely problematic what criteria for God's will the Minister will give, even though in Article 4 they are very good, I think, written and followed by this regulation and the Commission, which will determine these things itself. Article 78 of this existing media law states for local, regional media covering between 200,000 and one million inhabitants: The publisher referred to in this article may obtain local status, etc. on special terms. This is that the programme provides objectively what we do not know is problematic, impartially, and we do not know this, informing the inhabitants of the local community and regionally, and a balanced presentation of different opinions and views on political, cultural and other matters. How come no one's ever bothered to do that before? It was an objective, impartial, balanced and political opinion. No one bothered about it. Everything was fine. Now that we are setting up and giving open and frank things and trying to present them transparently, and to present for the first time the Commission, which will be composed to be composed so that they will not be linked directly to the media, is now problematic. So, the aprioral mistrust of the current government or minister that it is incompetent, of course, to appoint appropriate and quality people to this commission, while you yourself, formerly, have done this with the full hand and have distributed as much as a billion 100 million. But what happened was you split a billion $100 million, but you didn't. However, this government paid them because it had to fix the debt for programmes of particular importance and had to pay for it last year. And now, of course, since this is in law, it is also legally prescribed and it was necessary to do so, now it has come into the new law that programmes of particular importance will have to be maintained according to all the criteria and it is also right, we will not now talk about why these programmes are of particular importance because this is clear. Now they have to be paid. Not out of calculus, I don't know why the previous government could pay in March this, or April, or I don't know, for buying it, I don't know what kind of election. Are you going to buy them with this this year? Maybe the marriage won't go through that fast. However, after the old call, we may have to distribute at least programmes of particular importance in order to be able to implement their own programme. It is extremely inappropriate, to say the least, to talk about how the current minister and the current authority will be politically responsible, when the former power and those to whom it shared it used to be very small. Regarding Article 110, something was said. The Audiovisual Media Fund, that annual fees for software content had to be drawn from this. Listen, this has been annulled by the Constitutional Court. I do not understand that this is being said and deceived and that it should be different if the Constitutional Court annulled it in 2003. About seven days to answer. This is the same as the famous former government in its 2004 law proposed in March, the right of 7 working days to answer. I don't know how that's weird, but now we're gonna do everything wrong. So 7 days ago, there was no deadline, so I think that's very fair, and the work is very large, and sometimes it really takes maybe 7 days to answer to get it. With regard to music, it was said that 40% of RTV and 20% of it was for others. In this regard, we have met several times with different groups of people, affected, if you want, and of course also received written from SAZAS, from the company of musicians, of course, of all, that this is completely possible to perform, that is enough of this music, because it is all about broadcasting this music and subtracting the speech program, not from all hours, but from the speech program, which is 80% of the time, it is about 40% of the broadcast of this music, because there is still speech, also on the ADR program. About the ombudsman. I welcome colleague Mira Petk, who opened this, but the ombudsman's not the press world, never wanted to accept the journalists, at least in recent years, even though it was clearly written in the book by those people who are probably also appreciated by the opposition that the society of journalists of Slovenia does not enjoy, nor does the honorable judgment, support in the public, but, of course, to this ombudsman, they resist, so each house should name itself within the housing of an ombudsman who would take care of what Miro Petek was talking about. Thus the same institution has many people in England, in Spain have special complaints committees, have a special guardian of texts, in fact, the Ombudsman, so that the texts are to respond to people's complaints. About the editor of the third program on RTV. Of course, it is not covered by Article 18, paragraphs 3 and 4, why? Because it is not responsible for any published information, because it is, however, a transfer from Parliament or a transfer from Parliament, and such an editor is not responsible for what is being said here within, but is only responsible for the implementation of the programming design. So there are rumors, and one of the Members of Parliament said that there are rumors about preferring certain things. So, like I said before, that's not true. Now, after the current things, they can't say that because no one has ever shared it, on the other hand preference, and we can't say back. The State, therefore, has only paid the debt that has been created by others to the representatives of the programmes of particular importance. This was our commitment, of course, and we did. We've already said something about the criteria. So, the criteria, I think, are in Article 4a. I want to know what the criteria were for those commissions that distributed a billion 100 million, with famous, independent and, in short, full knowledge of the media space and objective. I'm gonna go check with the Ministry, and I'm just wondering what criteria they met and had in front of them when they shared it. But there were people who were directly connected to individual media. So we intend to set up a commission that will be appointed by the Minister, which also comes out of his right, that is, by law - a commission which will nevertheless be drawn up differently. With regard to these 3%, I think Mr Testen was talking about 3%, the issue of the resources that RTV has on the special account. That's right. He's holding these funds on a special account. Some things have not yet been clearly cleared for RTV and these funds, because they have been paid by the State, must be returned to the budget by RTV. With regard to media and funds to be shared with eligible media. So, of course, this list exists, the previous one, these programs are of particular importance. This is to follow as closely as possible the fact that the entire territory of Slovenia, the state, is actually covered and, of course, the demographically threatened areas enjoy this privilege, i.e., or RTV media, because of this demographic threat, a special privilege to be introduced into this funding, even though they do not sufficiently meet certain conditions. About what Mr Bevk said and quoted me as saying in my speech. I think that still holds. With regard to the third parliamentary I think, then the debate went a little on the RTV law. [[...]] We don't have anything here at this point. RTV has to do this on its own. In this case, I would just like to say that, on some of the events on television, I was given a demonstration of a letter on which it was written -- so they thought it would be written that it would be worth only 100 million copies from Parliament, but it said on that letter that it would cost only 100 million. However, as far as I know, there are discussions between Parliament and RTV to sort these things out. But it's interesting, it was 100 million, with the exact specification of how many people they need, what lines, what cameras, and everything. But there's nothing to talk about, and the media won't report it because it doesn't, because they're objective and honest. About laundry and advertising, I must say that I did not understand Mr Bevek in this. This was linked to pornographic provisions that were supposed to prohibit all pornography. So, all I would say is that we have this law - what we have introduced into this law, I think it is perfectly written, after all international comparisons and in all European countries, that is, the European Union, that public television is prohibited. I say it's forbidden. And sometimes I feel like when it's resisting and revitalizing these things, and somehow it's what pornography is, because it's not really the formula. This is a matter of one personal education on the one hand, this is so my personal opinion, otherwise it is a matter of codes that will also have to be drawn up under this law and it is also a matter of case law, of case law which will be. And so that I think this revitalization and this howling of the worm into what that limit is, it seems to me that those who say it are probably connected to the porn industry. Mr Pavliha spoke about how he had no right or that he was disadvantaged, at least as I understood him in the Primorski News, that his parliamentary activity was not properly represented. This is exactly what this law is about, that it will be a politically balanced space. The right to the truth, not the right to the truth, this is about the correction. I think that's what Mr Barovic was talking about. You know, the right to the truth, this isn't about the right to the truth, because I think it's some grumpy lawyer, Slovenian, who wrote about it. It's not about the right to truth or anything, it's about the right to correction. If someone writes something and it's bad, someone else can answer it. The truth is revealed by the court. As to the fact that one part is likely to have to be considered, but the part that says it should be that it may be a relatively longer answer. This was thought out only in this sense, not to any longer articles or such, but indeed, it was already said, but once again, to those short news with bombastic addresses, when a man, when he is covered, difamirated, cannot respond with three lines to something they offer him with such an oily address and from below, I do not know that he is such a bad person. This applies in particular to the yellow press, of course. However, it may be necessary to consider that there will be no severe blood for these longer, relatively longer, rights to a relatively longer repair. I don't mind, but the point being that this went on inside was mainly about those short consciences in which when you answer as a correction, you have to give facts and circumstances, which, of course, brings a longer text. So again on the criteria, we're not going to talk about that. With regard to the complete prohibition of pornography, it is as if we have the intention of trying to make the law subordinate and limit freedom of speech, of course. So I don't think it holds anything, in any way, and it can't prove in any way that we want to limit freedom of speech, but it's about having freedom of speech also hurt. Thank you. But we've already said that pornography is banned everywhere in Europe. Mr. Kangler, who was saying that he lost his chance, if I understood him correctly, of performing on TV, and that some people ordered it. I have to say, I never ordered anyone on TV or on TV. I've never done anything like this before, and I don't know. That'll be all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you. All the debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Keep your hands where I can see them, please. Bevk, Potrata, Rezman, Horvat, Grims, Tanko, Irgl, Kovacich, Pike, Grill, Saiovic, Shirca, Terchoon, Barovich, Ziherl, Sušnik. Anyone else? A bone. I'll read it. Bevk is already here. I'll read it. Bevk, Potrata, Rezman, Horvat, Grims, Tanko, Irgl, Kovacich, Pike, Grill, Saiovic, Shirca, Terchoon, Barovich, Ziherl, Sušnik. A bone. I've read it all. Yeah. That might as well be, Mr. Secretary. [[...]] Mr. Secretary, yes. Minister. That's what we say, how much time do we have? 10 minutes divided by 18 is half a minute. Everyone has half a minute. First Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u190	To whom are the corrections intended in particular? I looked at the online work, and I printed out Janez Janša, Branka Grimska and Vasko Simoniti, six thousand hits since 2001. Then I type out a municipal councilman from Idria, two retired athletes, a political activist, and they have two hits in the same period. It is said that most corrections will be made by politicians in the media from the coalition, and this law is also written by measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you. I'll continue with the pluralization. It should be precisely defined and understood when we talk about it. However, independent experts say that the greatest threat to limiting pluralisation or diversity is the concentration of capital. Look at the work, the work publishes an ad for Mag, I look at the evening, there's an ad for Democracy, I look at the 7D published by the Evening, the Democracy Bookstore, and someone will tell me that there is no concentration in advertising in the media space. I just canceled work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I have asked the esteemed congregation for help in identifying or finding the answer, why Radio Fireplace in Prekmurje should not have been heard for some years, and I regret that I am disappointed that you have not helped me find this answer. But thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. My colleague also said something from the commission that Mr Milosavljevic of FDV had launched, as an expert, when he said that 90% of everything in Slovenian media is politics. So it follows that all the answers will be about politics. Now I ask you, where is culture? Where's Estrada? Where's the party? Where's the sport? Where are all those contents, in the afternoon, if you want, scientific [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] which indeed fulfil this space and in respect of which, of course, there are still many times more and significantly more justified corrections [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I've written that it's Mr. Tanko's turn. [[He's not here.]] Miss Irgle, please. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you very much. In the debate, Mr Minister said that many of the things the opposition had been talking about had been critically prepared by the previous government. Now I wonder whether any of the opposition Members will vote in their conscience this time, or whether they will vote again under a directive set by the opposition party to their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Grill. [[Not at all.]] Mr. Mag. The fairies don't either. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u200	Today, we have heard repeatedly that the only criticism that has been expressed so far by the report of the U.S. Foreign Ministry has been unfair, inaccurate, or that these strong criticisms do not hold back. This is what Mr Grims and Mr Jerovšek spoke about, while dealing with the Jambreks and the Beast's daughters, as the only perspectives currently in the media space. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the concept of modern society. Of course the report was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u202	interpreted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u203	Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So all media pluralism is next. Read the address today in Del compared to yesterday's asbestos debate. You'll take a new step. Everything you want is written. The TV plays everything you want or doesn't play. And Mr. Grimes, the only thing worth mentioning in this RTV law is where are the direct broadcasts from television? You don't want them. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Nothing's true. You don't want them. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You're stalling and this is your media pluralism.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. I repeat, there is no replica. Mr. Grimes, please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u206	I would like to ask that you read aloud the rules of procedure which, in the event that the debate is still under way, gives the full right to a replica, in particular when a person has been appointed and, above all, his name in combination with a grave lie to his account, which the LDS colleagues have just afforded. Right now, we're not in the voice-explanatory phase, as you're probably mistakenly thinking, because there's actually no replica there. The debate is still under way, Mr President, and I ask you politely to fulfil your duty as stated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I promise I will do my duty. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you. I think we got this explanation yesterday around half past twelve at night when the president of the National Assembly interpreted the Rules of Procedure when we were in exactly the same situation as we were now and he did not allow a replica. That's right, and don't pretend. It was 11:30 at night.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Please, let's stick to what we've agreed. It was precisely the time for this "short" debate and I note that you have said much in this "short" debate. Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u210	Why does he focus so much on repairs? All right, because unfortunately we are looking for or we need an innocent person to prove that he is innocent, instead of the one who is lying and who is writing or showing the truth waiting for the innocent to prove that he is. It's all upside down. We should consider you innocent until they prove you guilty. Unfortunately, things are reversed. Let the journalists search for real truth, not fictional and fictional.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you. I'm not talking about fixing it. I don't pretend I don't know what to do with those 30 seconds. However, I would like to say in support of the need to introduce mandatory content on local media, as far as music creativity is concerned, or 20%, as far as I know, of the content prescribed. With this claim that this is still absolutely necessary because today [[End warning sign]] You just don't know that you're listening to the Slovenian radio station until you do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u214	until you hear a forecast or a forecaster, if you can hear it at all. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u216	I'd just like to emphasize once again what I said before. I miss the obligation of the public media to inform the public of what it wishes to inform a public authority or a public official or public official. I think this obligation is missing in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, there's another one written by our president, but I'm really sorry, Minister, you have the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I would only take this opportunity to answer Mr. Kokal. I had it written down, so I forgot. I don't think we can do this the way you say that apriori should have the right to go public. I think that journalists are independent, you can call a press conference, the editor will decide whether or not to publish, like the STA, say the agency that sends reports here and there and can be freely taken down and published by journalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In doing so, the time for a debate, which we have shared in a fair manner, has come to an end and I conclude the debate. At the conclusion of this debate, I would like to reiterate once again that there is no time for replicas under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure when this short time is allocated. This concludes this agenda item. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 6.40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm breaking up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u220	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on labour and social security records. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 26 of the Social Democrats' Group. Here you go, ma'am. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u222	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u223	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u224	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u225	Given that the species in the National Assembly were quite early this morning, let me explain once for both amendments what the Social Democrats and these two amendments were trying to achieve. First of all, we should say that we had a number of comments and concerns regarding the law relating to the comments of the legislative and legal service and the warnings of the information officer. This amendment, which concerns Article 26, shortens the time limit within which the Minister of Labour is to prepare all the procedures and criteria for the establishment of information networks, by which the objective of this Act could be achieved. We are aware that in this case, the most important thing is to make data accessible to users as well. The law is written in such a way that the executive branch of the authorities, with a centralised network of data, provides control over the use of public funds, over social transfers and convinces itself of the potential for abuse. On the other hand, the solutions are aimed at allowing the user to obtain information at one point or not to request information from him if such data had to be taken from him elsewhere. The deadline, the first, 2008 seems too far away, so we have proposed that this deadline should be reduced and set to 1.1.2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 27 of the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, ma'am. Spending. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. The second amendment was also written with the same purpose, namely to shorten the deadline from 1 January 2008 to 1 January 2007. The area of labour cost records is very sensitive, as there are known cases where unregulated situations in this area have prevented people from exercising the rights that belong to them on the basis of work and social security contributions. This proved to be the most drastic measure of retirement. Therefore, it seems to us that it is almost a two-year deadline for the issue of a sub-legislative regulation that would allow monitoring of data from the labour costs record, absolutely too long. Therefore, we propose to cut the deadline by one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 31 March 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a real estate registration law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS to Article 104. Can I help you, Mr. Gantar, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u229	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members. See, this morning too, a broad and thorough discussion was held on the subject of two alternative amendments to correct paragraph 104 of the disputed fourth paragraph concerning a questionnaire for the Geodetic Administration to collect data on real estate. It has already been found on the Committee that the number of these data is too large to be narrowed and two amendments have emerged, the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. In the LDS Club, we believe that our amendment is significantly better, to define more clearly the differences between residential and non-residential buildings, that the difference between industrial and business buildings is not clear and may cause problems; that the type of data that should be collected on commercial and industrial buildings is unnecessary, not knowing why they are being collected, which is fundamentally contrary to any methodology, you need to know for what purposes you are collecting and what the purpose of this collection is. And, of course, I would point out that this fourth paragraph is, therefore, as we have suggested, significantly better and will make geodetic administration and geodetic services less difficult. At the same time, we know why these data that are in here, why we are collecting it, and why they have purpose. In particular, I would like to point out that the amendment of the coalition is particularly controversial with the new sixth paragraph, which, of course, implies the specific use of these data for the mass valuation of real estates, which in some of these data is already at issue in itself or could lead to a completely wrong concept of mass valuation of real estates and, of course, also into a completely wrong concept, a harmful concept of real estate tax. I therefore propose, of course, that we accept the amendment of the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor. On behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u231	So the collection or acquisition of real estate data is certainly an important element of the real estate registration law, but, of course, it is this law that makes the real estate registration process as simple as possible, and of course every article of this law should follow this basic objective. If we make a comparison between the proposal of several parliamentary groups and the amendment tabled by the LDS Group, I find that it is, however, a more transparent and simpler amendment tabled by the LDS Group of Members, and therefore I think it would make sense to support this amendment and to approach the objective set out in this Act. However, I am also an opinion or opinion within the parliamentary group, so that we can further address this issue of the acquisition of real estate data even in the property valuation law, because some things could be further defined, but above all then, I think we will know more precisely what data we need in order to be able to properly evaluate this property. In such a way that overburdening the recording of real estate seems unnecessary to us at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u234	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u236	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u237	In the Slovenian National Party in the parliamentary group, we will not support the government proposal, because we feel that it goes beyond the framework for which the law was so, and in particular this amendment is prepared. If we're looking at housing or having a phone, that's ridiculous. Today, more or less wireless phones are used, which can also be purchased at gas stations, and what will we do about it? Will that be taken into account or not? Next, they've got cable TV. Today, cable television is wireless, and it's getting more and more. That's what you say. You can have it. You can't have it. Then forward, materials of the bearing structure. I don't know what material of the building's bearing structure is built in. I think it is nothing but some anti-terrorist demands and considerations that are by no means part of the Slovenian law. Next up, who cares if I have a computer network inside, if I'm connected from the bathroom to the kitchen and into the bedroom to the computer. I think it's my personal matter, not that it's being researched here, and it's writing into some kind of questionnaire. I am sure that these questionnaires will also be answered by our citizens in the way they are drawn up. In short, they're made up stupidly. However, I am convinced that the purpose, the basic purpose of this amendment by the government group, is actually to prepare for the preparation of new real estate taxes or, in other words, those who have kept them that have ripped off their mouths and built their own house, will be hit on the head. Those who have drunk all their possessions will be rewarded with this. I don't think we should afford anything like this. And the beginning of such thinking is in this amendment. We will therefore support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you, Your Honor. So the basic position of the Slovenian National Party around the law was stated in the presentation. We said what all of you were in the National Assembly hiding your eyes from. What is the purpose of this marriage? The purpose of this law is only to allow first decisions from taxes or taxes on immovable property in 2007 and September. The law you are adopting today at this stage follows this requirement only. And for confirmation and for further bluffing of government parties and government representatives, allow me to quote the secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who said the lawmaker, which was, of course, also publicly defined or publicly displayed. The fact is that the Real Estate Register will introduce the Real Estate Registration Act and, above all, the task of the Geodetic Administration, which will therefore have to establish an analysis, will say that in the period leading up to the completion of the analysis, all real estate, i.e. all apartments, will be visited by government representatives, so today to talk about some kind of survey, ladies and gentlemen, is irrelevant because you are misleading. The fact is that in the draft law you are still hiding from the parliamentary procedure in its final content, i.e. the real estate tax law, you have written down criminal liability if an individual does not establish or release a real estate censuser in his apartment. And, as we said earlier, we will not consent to the rise or establishment of this new tax. We will therefore oppose the amendment under order number one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We come to a decision or vote on the amendment of the SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS to Article 104, and at the same time remind you that if the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 34. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted and thus has become an amendment under number two irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS to Article 121. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second review of the real estate registration law. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The Government proposes that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, a third consideration be given to the proposal for a law on the recording of property at that same meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the Act's amended proposal, the bill's proposer proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the bill at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. The decision will not be taken if. Let me read the sentence to the end, and then I'll see if anyone answers the debate. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. You want a procedural question because there's no discussion about it? Please, procedurally, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u243	Dearest Present [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u244	Mr. Pache, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u245	I barely greeted you, your honors present, is this contrary to the introduction of a procedural act?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u246	To tell you the truth, I didn't fully understand what you said, even though I can hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u247	"Dearly present," I said, and you interrupted me. Now I don't know if I made a mistake saying "respectable present."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u248	I'm sorry, Mr Pache, I just said that I read it to the end, as the rules of procedure usually do for both of us to read the sentence to the end. And before we go to the vote, the chairman looks at the hall if anyone answers. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u249	An explanation of the vote on the motion for a decision, as proposed, would be given on behalf of the Group of Members, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u250	There's no explanation, I thought procedurally. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 29. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted for 61, against 7. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and supplements to the media law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on media, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Is Mr Barovic speaking on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of Members. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the media law at first reading. Above all, with emphasis on the question and the answer to what is the truth and the answer, the correction is the part that at least partially shows it, realizes it, implements it. This law gives the possibility of correction. At this point, I would like to tell everyone in this National Assembly, in the Slovenian National Party we are the first to support that journalists are looking for the truth in all areas of life, but the last to seek the imaginary truth. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we are proud that and that the emphasis will be on Slovenia, on Slovenian music and with renewed desire and warning, because we are at first reading, Mr Minister, that we expect the viewers of the TV programme Koper to be as well, and what programme, even if it will, and thank God that it is in Italian that they will read Slovenian subtitles. Third time. In the Slovenian National Party, we are pleased that it will look again, once again, and I conclude, to seek the truth in a fair manner, although I warn whoever will be mentioned at any time first to do something but not to do something, and no correction in seven days or the next day on seven pages will help him, the person who is affected by a lie or a false truth will have to seek justice four, five years in court, but will be cloudy because an article in one newspaper that is a lie, can fool a man for five years of life, but surely this man can prove seven times in court that the person who invented the truth is guilty does nothing to help. And may this right to correction be such as to enable people, individuals, to have a clean and honest truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. Maybe the law is appropriate in that segment that regulates the passage of ownership shares and has long been written, despite the fact that all the games in this segment have already been played, and according to some calculations they have been worth 11 billion tolars in recent times. However, the Media Act in all other segments, rather than regulating the media environment, regulates the media itself, and this is dangerous, works in solutions dealing with subsidisation or State support to the media and are fundamentally conceptually different from those laid down in the existing law and have remedied a European directive that sought to avoid commercialisation and influence with inequitable European content. That's when the fund was set up. Mr. Minister, he wasn't worth 1 billion, unfortunately not much less. It is now lifting itself in order to impose something on some criteria that you and your committee will have in hand, and it will push even stronger the state into the media instead of retreating, as you promised before the elections and perhaps ever again in between. Other segments that are not acceptable to us are those that touch correction because it is spreading. Mr Minister, at home, ask what it means to correct the writings in the electronic media and how impossible it is to do this if this correction could be longer than the conscience itself which has been given. You wrote this article in the tenth. But I'm glad you implied that you could fix it. There are several other solutions that we will try to remedy in the second treatment. How successful, of course, is not just up to us. Today in this form because of one good segment and the majority wrong direction you take it, not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Members and Members of the Social Democrats recognise that the media law can be amended so that it is better than the existing one. Unfortunately, in the present form, all solutions are not such that they can be fixed. It bothers us that we have not had the necessary public debate with dialogue, as we represent the Social Democrats in the partnership dialogue, and which has also been promised in the coalition or at least by the Minister of Public Administration. We have listed five fundamental comments that make marriage seem weak, which is a poor analytical part. The debate has shown that we understand pluralisation very differently and draw very diametrically opposite conclusions. There is no international comparison of media co-financing. The criteria for the allocation of funds shall be wholly imposed and irresistible enough to allow for the total arbitraryity of the commission chosen by the Minister. The regulation of the third RTV Slovenia programme is exempted from the provisions applicable to other media. And the fifth comment, media concentration regulation. This does not mean that we do not have any other comments or concerns about this law. However, in the Social Democrats Group, we have decided not to oppose the law at first reading, and we will choose all the possibilities that we will continue the legislative procedure with the amendments tabled and with those tabled by others, to try to get the text into such a form that at least the main shortcomings in the law will be resolved. The Media Act may not be so important for every citizen and citizen, but it is undoubtedly in its effects, and public debate must therefore have the possibility of giving opinions to the public concerned a central place in such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group of Members, we will be happy to support the law. The law regulates many areas, the areas of media pluralisation, the provision of funds for all those public newspapers of particular importance, which certainly deserve support, as they also carry out a large part of the public interest tasks, regulates rights in a European comparable way and regulates the right to correction, as already regulated by the Constitution itself. In this regard, I should just add that I firmly believe that everyone among the journalists who does their job properly will be happy to do so. Just as it will be a pleasure to broadcast to RTV Slovenia, which will actually begin in the coming days, because there will be no corrections to its work, that people themselves will be able to verify in direct transmissions that it is a matter of correct reporting, will experience a great deal of confirmation of their work and it is certainly right that the work of these institutions will be only public as such, and that is precisely what it has set out in this law. To finish with this, I would just like to add a clean personal card to my colleague from LDS, who earlier so gravely distorted my words, I would sincerely congratulate her on her personal holiday, which she will celebrate this Saturday. In advance, I wish her a nice celebration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. It was said that the state would now be in the media. And some say the country was in the media before. I don't agree with one, not the other. From now on, the country will certainly not be in the media and earlier in the media was not a state, but they were the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the United List of Social Democrats, according to the new Social Democrat. And it's about time this thing changed. We know one proverb that says, "If we want to, we can if we don't want to know how we're going to be." When I listen to some of the other two opposition parties, it seems to me that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats are always asking the question of how we are going to do this just for the sake of not wanting to make certain changes. I think it is high time for this to change and, despite the fact that my colleague is talking to me about some of the mercenaries, it would make sense to look at these payrolls on which journalists, journalists and others, who will now, thank God, leave these jobs. Democracy will carry them away, capital will carry them away, and they will no longer be maintained by the strange, gray or black capital that has flowed along these paths. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u260	Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u261	Respected and esteemed! I was hesitant whether to support this amendment of the law or not, after speaking in the debate about the minimum criteria for the establishment of the media house and there was no response. When I talked about funding for the pluralisation of programmes, there was no response, I proposed status funding, there was no response. In general, there was no word on all initiatives, but Mr Minister preferred to respond to those who used today's debate as the right to answer for all the injustices that have been caused by the media over the past two thousand years. Of course, this is unrealistic and I still do not know whether I would say that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. The change is too small, the changes are only about restrictively doing something. See what penalties are prescribed for media houses, if they exceed the daily advertising time once, a fifth of the annual turnover is taken. That's punishment. And if it's not too much and too much, then I don't know what. Since the marriage will go through, it doesn't matter what we do, but we'll try, despite this ignorance, something with the amendments, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u263	Yeah, okay. It should, on its own behalf, take a further position on this draft proposal. I think, unlike my colleague, that the interventions were more than necessary to be done in the wrong place. The media law somehow pushes us into a situation where we expect the change in the political scene to take place through the use of the media. However, we believe that society must not be the victims of political change. Thus, the branches of the message of this law and a similar message were also received from another marriage that has a birthday on Saturday. No one else in my kind has a birthday on Saturday, but the RTV Slovenia Act, which has experienced its light on April 1st, has not yet experienced its darkness, except for the third parliamentary programme, which we know is not, even though it has been promised to come free of charge, without pay or vice versa, with a lower television contribution. I will try to make changes on my own during the debate, and I count on the reasonableness of those who will listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has the floor. I'm sorry I missed you earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I will not object to the bill itself at this stage, although I have said a few things in my debate that have not been heard, I will draw attention to another assessment that I do not agree with, namely, on page 12 of the introduction: "The general situation in the field of plurality in the media in Slovenia is not the best." There is nothing in all other explanations and arguments supported by any argument, except free advertising for the civil society resuscitation institution, universities for postgraduate and European studies, as well as the newspaper and publishing company Nova revija. This is a kind of thing -- because you've talked about pornography before, I have to say that when I talk about pornography, as you said, I'm not a member of the pornographic industry -- but this is an eccentric case of covert advertising and political pornography, which is not sanctioned. That's another warning we could take.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u266	Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to make one point in my explanation of my vote, which has disturbed me very much in the introductions, and therefore I have actually begun to think about how much everything in the law is, in fact, well-intentioned, substantively. In his opening presentation, Mr Grims, when he spoke about the right to institutes, the right to correction of conscience, talked about how today he is casually operating on the concept of paedophilia. He spoke of the right to rectification of conscience and how right it was, in fact, to anyone who disagreed with what was written in newspapers or published on television or radio. When we talk about these things, about pedophilia, not least about the operation of names, names are public when it comes to legal judgments, it is very questionable how someone who disagrees with the fact that he has been published in the newspaper responds and requires correction. I would really be more careful with these things and I hope, Mr Grims, that you are not such a big cynic and that in this case it was only an awkward case. I will support the law in this treatment. However, I hope that you will take into account my comment and also introduce more appropriate regulation within this institution or establish clearer rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you very much. In my own name. To conclude, in our presentation of the Group's position, we have drawn attention to our concerns about the allocation, part of the APEC that will divide the frequency. We have warned the Minister about the Commission's appointment, which he has already replied to. Now there's only two more things about the forerunners. As far as the economic-propaganda program is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see, because we don't know if we're watching an information show - this is our part of life and our job in fact - because we don't know if we're watching advertising or watching an information show so far. It seems to me that it is finally necessary to separate the information-propaganda part, the information part and the artistic part of the program, and finally to clear up who is who. Because any information-propaganda cartridges that exceed any time - which are included in the so-called first time, "prime this", are a political or economic, private or social interest where money is put in the pocket. Let us tell the truth once and for all: The one who advertises at that time has power. Because he got enough money because he was advertising, the media that's going to advertise it is going to write it the way someone wants it to. It is therefore necessary to end this in all these areas. That's why we're going to support this first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you. Given that it has been given as a challenge, it is only stated that there is a problem in the field of pluralism, but this is not confirmed by any argument, but we can use quite an argument that has already been said about today and is of an international nature. The report on the state of human rights of the US foreign ministry last year made it very clear that the media in Slovenia, which are free, are active, are independent, have not tolerated the full range of opinions. This means, of course, that they were not plural, at least not to the extent that they deserved it in the light of very clear constitutional standards and clear international practices. That's the answer to everything we're talking about today. And how this relates to the content that is before us today, how this argument for this content is, I have already made it clear enough at the beginning of the presentation of the law itself. From this point of view, I firmly believe that this particular international argument in this case may be an additional moment of reflection and a decision to support the law now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u272	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The media law also needs to be amended, so I agree with this and I do not intend to oppose it in the first stage. However, I am sincerely afraid that we will come out of the rain under the fall of this law, as is well called Slovenian. At least the 12-year experience from my congregation is one where those famous 50-year-old minds have replaced some undemocratic and hateful misbehavior, where censorship as a method of work is reintroduced, a system of political editorialism and also political ownership of local media is being introduced, where straw owners, who are also hiding behind the authors of the new law, are performing. In such municipalities we come so far that the mayor decides which articles will be published in an information magazine, which is not, and on the radios is about so that those who are from, will wait a little, Mr President, to calm down the auditorium.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u274	I'd like peace in the hall. At the same time, I would like to point out that we are in the stage of explanation of the voice of the parliamentary groups, which we have already passed, and of individuals, so I ask you to limit yourselves to explanations of vote in your deliberations. It is not right that you comment on certain things about people and quote them, because they cannot answer, because there is no replica. Nor is it possible for me to give my word to the bill-maker, Mr Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your intervention. On the local radio it looks like this: on the radio, which is "private property" and is financed by the municipal budget in a small municipality with almost 20 million per year, only those from the winning option speak and the opposition is banned even from participating in agricultural broadcasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, my colleague. I will not support this proposal alone. In doing so, I will rely on my own, not the collective, which rules in this Parliament and in the coalition, and I will also rely on the experience we have from which new brooms try to rule in the media. There are two reasons why it is not good to support this law. The first is that this proposal restricts media freedom and threatens the autonomy of the journalistic profession. We have heard much about this since this law was available. The second is that the government's influence on the media is being increased through alternatively designed frequency-sharing bodies, for the allocation of pluralisation funds, etc. I strongly object to this and therefore this law is to be rejected at the outset.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u278	Mr. Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will support this law, it has good solutions that I have discussed in my debate, and I would not like to repeat this and waste time needlessly. But I will also support with one hope and desire, because I expect that in the spirit of the law it would be possible for everyone living within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia to listen to at least three of the most listening radio programmes, with classical radio receivers. And among these also the Radio Fireplace in all Pomur and in all of Prlecia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u280	Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I will uphold the law because it significantly improves the law in force so far. As far as the comments are concerned, my fellow mags. I'd like to tell him, there's nothing better in Ormož.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u282	Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u283	Thank you. My decision not to oppose the proposed decision is bound by the fact that I am still given the hope that the wall of misunderstanding, which reigns in this majority, can be undermined by words and smart suggestions. Because I am concerned about reducing the diversity of the media environment with regard to publications and those of the kind that are not so popular, which are also in the interest of more vulnerable groups of the population. Of course, I once again appeal to the applicants to consider whether the proposed solution to promoting public money, public money, is appropriate, given that public international research shows that success is more ambitious because direct incentives are a worse choice than indirect ones, which means either allowing favourable credits, or allowing good distribution, or allowing reduced postage and other ways to facilitate the functioning of the media. In particular, in order to be able to encourage and create the media again, subsidies have proved to be unwarranted in a number of European countries. I hope that something heard in the public presentation of opinions and in today's general discussion will nevertheless find room in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u284	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 17. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 30th A-point of the agenda, which is on the defence of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft decree was tabled by the College of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft act follows the provisions of the Act on the irresistibility of the exercise of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity which has transferred the exercise of tasks and the exercise of control over the implementation of the provisions of this Act to the Commission of the National Assembly. This Commission must be established by 11 April 2006 and will be operational as of the date of application of the law, when it will also cease to work by the anti-corruption commission. I give the floor to Mr Saš Pečet, who will present the position of the SNS Group, which was not involved in the review by mistake, was also not included in the discussion. Please, Mr. Pache. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Since there are no more announced debaters, I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present for 63, against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW, AND OF THE THIRD PROCEDURE. With regard to that bill, the National Assembly started yesterday and transferred it to today following a decision by the assembly. As specific questions have been raised by Mr Saš Pečet on this law yesterday, I would like to ask the opinion of the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, Mr Mag. Miroslav Mozetič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The question raised yesterday and put to the legislative and legal service,
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u286	Excuse me, please. Would you calm down, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u287	is next, briefly summarised. [[...]] In the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is it permissible to table amendments in the third reading of the draft law, even though the articles of the amended proposal have not been amended? This is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is under third treatment and has not been amended, as you well know, in previous proceedings. The legislative procedure began on 17.1.2006, the Slovenian National Party's initiative to collect signatures for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum was introduced in the process of adoption. At its meeting on 24.1.2006, the National Assembly adopted a decision requiring the Constitutional Court to decide whether the content contained in the referendum question was contrary to the Constitution and could therefore, by deferring the adoption and enforcement of the law, have had a counter-constitutional effect. On 27.2.2006, the Constitutional Court decided that, by delaying the adoption and enforcement of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Health Insurance, there could be unconstitutional consequences. The decision was published in the Official Journal. 28/2006. In the light of the third paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, the Council of State was not to carry out a third examination of the draft law until the expiry of the time limit referred to in Article 16, paragraph 3, of the Law on Referendum or until the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the time of receipt of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly placed the decision on that law at its first meeting, the meeting which began on 27.3. In addition, it was found that the provisions of Article 2 of the draft law, which lay down the time limit for the adoption of the electoral rules and the time limit for the holding of elections to the assembly of representatives, remained unfulfilled due to the circumstances and thus the passage of time. The time limit for the adoption of the regulation, as taken into account in the proposal for a law, has already expired on 1 March 2006, until that date, the mutual insurance company should comply with the applicable law on the harmonisation of its statutes with the law. This is the time limit for the draft law to be drawn up on the electoral rules. The deadline set for the holding of elections to the Assembly of Representatives was also set at 1.5.2006. As already stated, the reason for the suspension of the legislative procedure is an initiative to collect signatures for the invitation to tender for the previous legislative referendum and, in relation to it, a procedure to be followed before the Constitutional Court, which lasted a little longer than that provided for by the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative. It is therefore necessary to correct Article 2 of the bill by setting a new deadline within which the mutual insurance company will be obliged to adopt the electoral rules and to carry out the elections, to adopt the bill in the context of the current content of Article 2. However, the time limit for the adoption of the electoral rules on 1.3.2006 would be a non-compliance with Article 2 of the Constitution - the rule of law and the principle of the prohibition of re-existence. As the amended proposal has not been amended, the question arises whether these corrections can be made in the third reading. The Rules of Procedure do not explicitly regulate such a situation. The harmonisation amendment, as provided for in paragraph 5 of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure, is not possible in this case. However, we believe that it would be possible to fill the legal void with a reasonable application of the second paragraph of Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Article 132(1) lay down the rule that only Article amendments and additions may be tabled in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law or, otherwise, only articles opened by this proposal. The second paragraph of Article 132 provides, however, for an exception to this rule, providing that the restriction referred to in the first paragraph shall not apply to transitional and final provisions. The provision may be somewhat vague. This ambiguity also increases its placement in a section which regulates the second treatment on the home labour body, but it can be concluded that it has a logical meaning only if it is understood that the exception relates to the whole legislative procedure. Otherwise, this provision makes no sense as transitional provisions are an integral part of the proposal and can be amended. That such interpretation is correct is also based on the content and purpose of the transitional and final provisions. It is intended to regulate the transition, both as well as the transitional arrangements, and in particular to lay down deadlines for the implementation or enforcement of the obligations laid down and the time limit for the implementation of the law. What their content is, it depends on the content of the law. This may, however, be changed in the course of the procedure due to the adoption of amendments. However, it can either become meaningless or even inconsistent with the Constitution if the adoption procedure is delayed and the law itself does not change. This is the situation we have before us. Therefore, we believe that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it possible for the transitional provisions of the law to be corrected in the third reading, subject to the reasonable application of its second paragraph of Article 132. Whether or not transitional provisions are concerned depends, of course, on whether they are placed under the heading of transitional and final provisions. However, this must not be an absolute rule, since the legislator may be inconsistent in the system of law and therefore the transitional provisions are transitional in nature, as they set out the means and deadlines for the enforcement of obligations or the enforcement of individual legal obligations, also put in place outside this Chapter. However, the application of such an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure must be based in particular on the reasons why the postponement of the adoption of the law made the provision of the law incompatible with the Constitution. In a particular case, there is no dispute over the postponement of the adoption of the law which led to such a situation. Inadmissibility or postponement of the adoption and enforcement of the law even means that there could be unconstitutional consequences. The possible unconstitutional consequences of non-admission of the law also justified the reason why it was not allowed to collect signatures for the referendum and its implementation. There are obviously legitimate reasons for the adoption of the law as soon as possible, and it is necessary to amend Article 2 of the amendment in order to comply with the Constitution. With such an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we believe that the submission of amendments to Article 2 is permissible as a transitional provision of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Mozetich. In view of what you have said, I believe that further consideration of the proposed amendments is possible. We continue to consider the bill, which we will guide on the basis of the review of the amendments you received yesterday on the bench. Article 1 of the draft law is not of a transitional nature and therefore the amendment of the Group of Members to this Article is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 2. Procedural question, who, please? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u289	Mr President, I am afraid that practice has become in the National Assembly, that rules of procedure have started to be interpreted in their own way or on the basis of the tendency of the ruling majority, which is the result of the inability to understand Slovenian legislation. The fact is that the government of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time, missed the deadline for the topic of mutual or health insurance in April. Therefore, for the first time, we have witnessed the chaotic situation or situation when the National Assembly overstepped its powers and caused, at least after our assessment and after an assessment of the constitutional profession within the Republic of Slovenia, an incomprehensible intervention into Slovenian legislation when it went beyond the content of the individual law by means of a mandatory interpretation. It's been two months. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was unable to resolve the matter within two months. And it happens to us again the same picture that we had in the past: a minute to midnight, if I may say so, trying with an amendment form that is inadequate and contrary to the rules of procedure, to adopt individual solutions that are solely for the benefit of one insurance company, this is the insurance company Triglav. I would like to point out, however, that on Friday, the leadership of the National Assembly was warned by the Slovenian National Party that the draft law, as it is before us, is not feasible. On Monday, however, you were informed by all other Members under agenda item that it is not possible to enforce the law by 1.5 because of the provisions of the Statute of the Mutual, because of the Rules of Procedure and because of the consent of the Minister to put it on the Rules of Procedure. This was completely impractical and we already knew this on Monday, but, ladies and gentlemen, you who have a decision in hand have nevertheless included this law in this meeting of the National Assembly, despite your knowledge of all the arguments on Monday. And then what happens? The ruling majority submits on the basis of Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr Mozetič advocates today and yesterday, despite the fact that Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure falls under Chapter CD or Chapter of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the second reading of the bill. Today we are not in the second reading of the bill. And whoever looks at Article 132 will see that this is possible only in the second reading, not in the third reading, to the transitional and final provisions of the bill. However, the amendment tabled by the ruling parties does not refer to the preceding and final provisions, but rather to the substantive provision referred to in Article 2. And if we once agree to such a theory of fraud of the Rules of Procedure and Slovenian legislation, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u290	Mr. Pece, your time is up. Please. Thank you very much. You said it was a procedural issue, you probably raised that procedural question. We're moving on to the debate. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[..]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u291	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I make a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u292	There's only one thing I'd like to warn you. I started with the sequel, and we could raise our hand first. Please. You must have known about the procedural question before. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u293	I knew it before, but I don't remember, like the government, every five minutes anything new. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, in order to prevent further confusion arising in this National Assembly when it comes to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the College of the President of the National Assembly meet to clarify this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u294	I'll give my word to my colleague Skolcz. I'd like to answer any further questions, please. I do not think the College of the President of the National Assembly is competent in this case. We have now listened to the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, who has given his opinion and said that the proposed amendments can be considered. You asked for a procedural question that had spread to the debate, and you asked another procedural question. Here you are, Mr. Skolcz, also your procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that this meeting should be suspended again. Let me tell you why. The first thing we would need is a written opinion read by the Chief of Staff, Mr Mozetič. For the first time, we have found ourselves in a situation where the Rules of Procedure are not interpreted by the Chairman or the Business Commission, but by the Legislative and Legal Service. This is a dangerous situation because it simply allows you to break what has been adopted and recorded in the Rules of Procedure with a solid two-thirds majority. Another reason to do so and to see that this procedure, which is proposed or attempted to verify by the legislative and legal service, is that you yourself have rejected the SNS proposal to this Act, which I think is correct in relation to the applicable business arrangements, but in this case you should also reject the other amendments to Article 2. If we had done so, we could have voted on the law as a whole. What that would mean is, of course, a third question. Since we are solving a lot of things in this process, I have also talked about this when these complications arose, it is important to be careful that Parliament does not make mistakes. If he makes a mistake in his steps, he does a bad favor to those who want to settle a matter as they think it is right. I do not want to enter the content of the amendment at this time, but definitely from the experience we have, these kinds of amendments, such as here, could never have been amendments that fall within the transitional and final provisions, not because they do not fall under this title, but because they regulate the substance of the law, the content is true. Mr Vice-President, I propose that we get this opinion, that you stop this meeting, that we learn about it, because we are actually doing something that I am deeply convinced we should not do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u296	Mr. Skolcz, you have proposed the suspension of the session. For how long, specifically?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u297	Until tomorrow, because this is a very complicated matter that we need to examine, and I think it would also benefit the President of the National Assembly, who is responsible for the procedures for examining these things. However, they will certainly be our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u298	Mr. President, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Your suggestion was that the meeting be suspended by tomorrow and that we proceed with this meeting tomorrow. I will therefore put your proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u299	Above all, I would like this opinion as well. We would also like an opinion read by Mr Mozetič and if there is any other expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u300	I shall put Mr Školč's proposal to the vote under Article 65, paragraph 1. About Mr. Skolcz's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u301	Mr President, what should we vote on if we do not know what we are voting on and if we do not have material on the table? And we're going to be voted out. We need to be able to get to know matter. You're applying some Stalinist version by which you're going to tear it all down long and long.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u303	I have a procedural proposal to go as it is in the National Assembly in such cases, which has never before been provided in writing by the legislature. Every time she was asked for an interpretation and an opinion, she gave it. The Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the President and as he decides, so shall they. The motion for suspension shall be put to the vote. I don't see any point. I will not refer to the College because the Colleges do not discuss this issue and do not decide, the President shall decide. Put to the vote as soon as possible. And I ask that the Institute of Procedural Proposals do not play again with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u304	Okay. On the basis of Article 45, paragraph 1, I shall put to the vote Mr Školč's proposal that this law be considered tomorrow. A decision will not be taken if one third of those present oppose it. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. That is why we are continuing the debate. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u305	I'm sorry you didn't want to give me your word sooner than Mr President, because I held my hand in front of him. You know that because you've seen it, but [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u306	Excuse me again, Mr. Anderlich. I know very well from this position that Mr President has wanted a word before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u307	That's not true. Mr President said he didn't want to talk about it, but let's leave it now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Pukšič, you take care of yourself and you'll have a lot of work to do. I want to offer you what is most logical and meaningful in such cases. To take advantage of that Rule of Procedure, which states, and to listen a little less to Mr Plevelje, who has misled you in this case, use yourself as chairman for the good work of the national assembly of the article, which says: "The President may suspend the meeting and set a time for the continuation." Believe me, the goals you have will be achieved, but these goals cannot be devoted to any means. And in this case, believe when you look at it, and Mr Plevelje will be able to provide you with a number of cases when a written opinion of the legislative and legal service has been requested to receive it. It is more important for me to talk about content, but the content is actually such that the way you picked it up is not the right one. If the Lord of the Legal and Legislative Service says that 1.3.2006 was the time when the consequences could have already occurred, etc., the date of which we are today, 29.3.2006. To refer to preventing the unconstitutional consequences of voting today as a logical follow-up to all these events in order to obtain a written opinion in order to identify and continue tomorrow. If it were true that you were preventing the unconstitutional consequences, this meeting would continue until the end of February at the extraordinary meeting where this law was held. That's not what this is about. Once again, I suggest that you use that part of the Rules of Procedure that allows you and gives you the sovereign right to suspend the meeting and determine the time to proceed. Whether it's 15 minutes, half an hour or tomorrow, I don't care.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. I have understood your proposal and therefore I am adjourning the meeting for 1 hour and at this time you will receive the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission, I think that was your proposal. We'll continue the meeting at exactly 21.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u309	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow us to resume the session. Before we go to the debate, allow me to explain my position or the reason why the presidents, in this case I personally do so. At your request yesterday, the legislature gave its opinion. Of course, there is no debate on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, because this is not the point of the agenda, in order to be a debate or to evaluate their opinion. This opinion shall only help the President to decide. Why I have decided to proceed with the adoption or consideration of amendments concerning a transitional provision, namely non-constant provisions of the law, but a transitional provision to read only two sentences, first from the Constitutional Court decision. This was the decision of the Constitutional Court: "By delaying the adoption and enforcement of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, constitutional consequences could arise." And the second sentence in the magnetogram of the opinion of the legislative and legal service reads as follows: "There are obviously legitimate reasons for the adoption of the law as soon as possible. At the same time, it is necessary to amend Article 2 of the amendment by complying with the Constitution. It should also be borne in mind that Article 132 provides for the possibility of amendments, even though the article has not been opened in so far as the transitional provision is concerned. "In the light of such an interpretation," says the legal and legislative service, "we believe that the introduction of amendments to Article 2 as a transitional provision of the bill is permissible." Given that the amendment to Article 1 is irrelevant, I am putting two articles and two amendments to Article 2. The first amendment was tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. The second amendment was tabled by the Slovenian National Party. Please, who wants a word? Mr. Pache, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u310	Procedurally, Mr. President. I am really interested - today we have received, or just now, an opinion on the table of some kind of legislative and legal service. In doing so, I must inform you, both all Members and you, that I am not a member of the legislative and legal service, because this opinion also quotes me. And since it does not expose itself to what is the position, Mr President, that my part is also an integral part of the opinion of the legislative and legal service. What we have before us today should not become a practice. We have a magnetic record before us, namely the individual opinion of Mr Mozetič. This means that the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, will agree to an opinion which is totally wrong. If you've read this to yourself and to your fellow Members, I'm going to say the tape on page 156, in the meantime let you know that we only have four letters, and the code is from leaves 150 to 157. And it's very interesting what they find. That is why I ask you to listen, because I think that such an attitude, Mr President, should not be accepted by you either. I will, of course, take the time, I ask you, in accordance with the status of the President of the National Assembly, to put to the vote first, whether the National Assembly accepts or not such a report at all. Whether the National Assembly accepts a magnetic record as a report, for the first time and for the second time, or such content is accepted. Because the fact is that Mr Mozetič is speaking, I therefore believe that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it possible to correct the transitional provisions of the law in the third reading. In doing so, I would like to point out that Article 132 is very clear only for the second reading and not for the third reading. Here they try to weigh the legislator, i.e. the National Assembly, the Legal and Legislative Service. Furthermore, in the third reading, the amendments may correct the transitional provisions of the law, correct as to whether transitional provisions are, of course, in the first place, dependent on whether they are placed under the title of transitional and final provisions. However, this must not be an absolute rule, as the legislator may be inconsistent. We thus recognize that we have become inconsistent or have given inconsistencies green for light for all similar cases. Mr President, I ask you to put a procedural motion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u311	Mr Pece, I have said that there is no debate on the opinion of the legislature. This is not the agenda item. Please don't use this institute again. We are in the debate on the first and second amendments to Article 2. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u312	Look, Mr President, I'm gonna have to touch the things that have been said and written here. Finally, you base your actions on an opinion that you do not allow others to discuss. What is important to me right now is that we are in the third reading, that we have a situation that is perfectly clear to all, and in this regard, if we adopt a law as it is, it would not be feasible. There is no need to be sure of what the Constitutional Court feels about this, nor does it need to be specifically said. What needs to be clarified is whether the amendments in the third reading have been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're already on slippery ground. The exception on which the coalition's parliamentary groups are to table an amendment is based, namely, Article 132(2), which refers to the second reading of the law. We can't, and they're talking about the exception that it's possible to interfere with transitional and final provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u313	Mr. Skull, I said that here I explain the rules of procedure now in the session and not you and not you. It burns and not anyone else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u314	I'm talking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u315	If you are not satisfied, you can give to the business committee a subsequent review of the correctness of this practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u316	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u317	I'll interrupt anyone who gets away from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u318	Mr President, I want to talk about this problem, which is largely related to the inability of the government and the coalition to resolve it in a procedural sense more correctly. Therefore, these issues are certainly related to the content of procedural issues. I would accept any explanation and also a discussion on this amendment if it were to take place on the home working body in the context of the second reading. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, it is not possible to pass on this situation and this exception, which is envisaged for the mother's working body at second reading. [[...]] From this point of view, Mr President, I believe that you must do the same as, Mr President, I ask you to listen, because even if you know everything, you must process at least the proposals you get here. May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u319	Thank you very much. The debate is under way, and please, if there is no debate, of course, I will conclude it and put the amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u320	Of course I thought the Members were at least [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u321	Mr. Zagorac. Mr Školč, please, you will be able to comment on the debate, even in the debate you can mention your views, just please do not try to confuse the importance of the constitutional court with procedural complications. Please, Mr. Zagorac. However, I warn you that if you discuss the rules of procedure, I will take away the word. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u322	Thank you for your word. What you just did is a shame. It's a shame for you, not for the last time, you're the President of Parliament, not the President of what you think you're leading. I will respect this opinion myself, and I will not speak of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, but of this for reasons I do not have. Because I don't have it. Unless you think you can calm Mr. Bajc down, I'd like to ask nicely. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u323	Back-up advertising.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u324	There are some other animals in the barn, not just bulls.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u325	Quiet, please. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u326	I'm sure some bull would be offended. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u327	Here you go, Mr. Zagorac. Please stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u328	Mr. Pojbich, thank you. I myself will not speak of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, because I do not have it, unless you consider that this magnetogram is the opinion of the legislative and legal service as a document, then I ask for the signature of someone from the legislative and legal service or at least for yours, as an authorisation. As far as the amendments tabled by the coalition are concerned, even if we close our eyes and believe that they can apply to transitional and final provisions, even though in this case there is only a second treatment of the law and not a third where we are now, these amendments are submitted to the substantive article, not to a transitional and final provision. For this reason, they should be removed and should not be dealt with here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, perhaps because of the practice I have in the National Assembly, I do not believe and I know that Article 2 of the Act is neither a transitional nor a final provision. We can, if we lie a little, believe the President's explanation, but we probably know by ourselves that Article 2 is neither a transitional nor a final provision. We accept amendments that should not be accepted today. Why? In exchange for the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done its work until the time. She was warned twice, in the second half of January and at the beginning of March. Now, allow me, see, on Monday, we have proposed to you Members of the National Party that it is reasonable to postpone the law for the work referred to in Article 2 of that Act. The tasks are timed for too short a period of time and will not be possible to implement the law even if it is adopted by a correction, as proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Government Parties. Therefore, it makes sense if anything is already accepted to accept the proposal, the amendment under order number 2, the amendment of the Slovenian national party. The only difference is that the deadline is longer. With this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister, is allowed to place his "hegen" on the rulebook that is needed. This allows the Assembly to take place and probably all of you remember from the period of January's discussions how numerous these procedures are and that they are impossible to carry out within 30 days. That's why we missed deadline 1.5. If the Members of the National Assembly do not want us to meet in the Constitutional Court when the matter falls out of our hands, the transformation will take place outside, the emphasis outside any control of the legislative branch of power, then it is only at this point that we can accept the amendment under order number 2, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please read all the amendments. However, of course you should know that today the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is not being tabled in accordance with our rules, i.e. the Rules of Procedure. Just like it's not with the rule of thumb of the ruling majority. And if you want, I will use the term, pretend the rules of procedure, give it at least once in connection with the adoption of the law, but not that at the transition from the first to the second half of the year we will meet again with amendments and additions or, God forbid, perhaps with a re-explanatory explanation of one of the three articles. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have met with a mandatory interpretation of the Article of the Insurance Act. We have not been warned in it many times that we must not change the content of the article by means of a mandatory explanation, but that it can only be explained. And equally, you will not accept the amendment under order number 2, you will be forced to do so in this case. Please, if you have not yet consulted, but I believe that you have, but especially those who decide in the framework of the ruling majority, how will you remain to vote to read the National Party amendment thoroughly? Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment allows the procedures to be convened in the normal timescale in order to allow time for all three tasks necessary before the assembly, from the consent of the Minister to the rules of procedure, to a reference in which a few ten days, more than 30 days, must expire during the reference and the course of the assembly, you will not be able to catch this by means of an amendment tabled by the ruling parties. Think about what you're doing. And to conclude, allow me no matter which amendment will be adopted. In all this complication you have been informed twice, the leadership of the National Assembly in writing on Friday, all other Members and Members on Monday. On Monday, I warned you about this speaker, what it means to include a marriage without amendments, because it is no longer possible to amend it, to this session. At that time, only five members of this National Assembly confirmed the correctness of the Slovenian National Party. Don't make the same mistake. The National Assembly did it twice, not for the third time. We're not doing ourselves a favor, we're only doing one moment, the law is not at home in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u332	Mr President, I will give my position to the Liberal Democracy Club. First, what we received on the table has not yet happened in this national assembly. The document, a magnetogram with the so-called opinion of the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, is not a document, it lacks a whole bunch of things, including at least a signature. I hope Mr. Mozetič knows what he's saying. Another time. What is being done today, regardless of the content, is the destruction of democracy, gentlemen, what is being done today, including the vote we had on our procedural proposal, is a policy where the objective is to devote the means. Today it was as if it were written in the constitution that there was no shooting, but we were discussing that a third of them could be shot if they did not object. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, also because of your actions towards the Member of our Member Group, Mr Školč, we leave this meeting of the National Assembly at this point, because we cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly, which is no longer legitimate. The handling of amendments in the manner proposed, past the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, is controversial. Why the government, the ruling coalition, has not drawn up a law to take into account all possible complications, why lawyers in the National Assembly, in the service of the government, are no longer able to do so, should the government of Janša be asked. We're leaving the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u333	Thank you. Let me answer that point, however. This is not a document, of course it is not a document, because we do not discuss or vote or accept any document of the legislative and legal service. This is the written opinion you requested. The opinion was given orally and because you requested it in writing, we provided it to you, but of course you have every right to leave the meeting at this point of the agenda. Mr. Barovich. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u334	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, due to the unacceptable meeting of the National Assembly at a given time, we request that the amendments referred to in Article 2 be decided before deciding on the 1st Article 45 minutes leave for consultation within the framework of the parliamentary group and that we obtain an opinion from the legislative and legal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u335	Thank you. I therefore believe that there are no more debaters, and before the vote on the amendments, at the request of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, I will allocate 45 minutes of suspension after the vote has been explained, Mr Plevelj warned me, and this has always been the case. [[...]] I conclude the debate, we are moving on to an explanation of vote to the first amendment of Article 2. This is called an amendment tabled by the coalition parties' parliamentary group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Pece, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u336	In every way, I think there's been some illogical situation. It's like walking around on your head, sorry, now one of you. Gentlemen, how can we explain this if we have asked for a break for clarification before the vote. We want to process the information provided by Mr Mozetič, who is not here anymore, because he is probably hiding because of the opinion he wrote, and he is probably embarrassed. How can a person, if he does not know all the information, tell him so I ask you to take mine and explain all my other fellow Members from the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group for probation? As regards the first amendment, which has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure by four parliamentary groups, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party Group and the DeSUS Group. If you accept this amendment, you will revert to the parliamentary procedure. You're going to disable everything you're supposed to be trying to do. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, you will cause the reform of Article 64 of the Insurance Act not to take place. You will cause not only over a million Slovenian insurers and insurers to be deprived of membership rights originating in 1998 and 1999, when the Mutual Debt of the Institution is covered by the Mutual Debt, but you will also, of course, cause you to meet with this procedure all those institutions that, at least so sincerely in the National Party, hope to be more impartial than you are. The amendment of the said parliamentary groups, according to our assessment, by setting the time limit of 1 July 2006, is likely to not allow sufficient time for anyone who knows the tasks needed before the Assembly’s reference, i.e. for the day of the Assembly’s call. Ladies and gentlemen, in this period, the extension, as you predict, is impossible to do. Let your decisions be governed by reason. In the National Party, of course, because I don't know if we're going to vote, but if we do, we're going to oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u337	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have little escape from this procedure today, which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is not in accordance with legal standards and which is not in accordance with the Constitution. Indeed, this so-called opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is, in fact, just a magnetogram, a recording of Mr Mozetič's current inspiration, which is no longer here today and certainly cannot be a credible document. A credible document should have a head and ultimately, if nothing else, at least a signature. Of course it's not. But if I move on to amendments that shouldn't actually be. It is now difficult to decide how to vote on this at all, because if we vote in any way, we will break the rules of procedure and break the law. Regardless of whether we decide on or against the amendments, we are in breach of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, which is the holy book for this association. Many people have already said that the procedure in democracy is the one that sustains democracy. Now we're breaking this whole thing down and breaking it down. I don't know how we're gonna proceed. It appears that some strange way of working will be established when certain ministers, either by their authority or by their demands or by blackmail, lead to a slightly different vote for each law. Of course, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With all due respect to this National Assembly, you know he's already passed laws that were not in conformity with the Constitution. They were illegal, and we confirmed them. Let us not do this, for we take the credibility of this congregation. Today we have tabled amendments that are not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And also this interpretation, which we got as a mandatory explanation, is actually a misrepresentation, because it talks about it as if it were in another reading. That's not true. We have a law that is actually in final consideration. And it is a clear business arrangement, so let us be reasonable and not be premature in what is not possible, let us not do something that is not legal and commercial, for the rules of procedure of the National Assembly are, however, if I may say in your language, a holy letter that should be respected. And for your sake and our respect, the honourable President, be reasonable and stop this futile discussion, because it is illegal, unfounded and steals all our time. Take your time, tomorrow we can think about it more soberly, but let's listen to each other. Let the college call. Consider this request, which was well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u341	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. We are discussing the amendment to Article 2, in particular. Now, because you obviously don't understand - maybe someone's watching us on the third program, and I'm going to tell people what the point is. The Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS have tabled an amendment to Article 2. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2. We have all tabled an amendment to Article 2 at the same time. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen of these four parties, is in force and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is not in force. So why not? Yeah, you said that - you don't recognize our amendment. Ours is irrelevant, and that's what we're dealing with. Mr. Bajc, you have a hand, raise it up, and the President will give you his word. Believe me, he will give it to you. Did you include our amendment in the hearing? In short, to Article 2, we have tabled an amendment to continue to help the government. Look again! It must be entered in the register of the court. Entry into the register shall take at least two months. Elections should be prepared and held before the decision is entered. Or you can calculate that the date you submitted, the date presented in Article 2 of 1 July 2006, will not be possible! Following legal procedures, legal procedures, it will not be possible to reach a date if you accept the amendment to Article 2. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We propose that this be February 2007. And what happens if it doesn't work if you don't make it by the proposed date? But we'll be breaking all the laws again. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u343	Mr Barovic, you may not have noticed, your amendment to this article is on page 2. And we have discussed both amendments, and we will vote first on the first amendment. And now there's an explanation for the vote for this amendment. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u344	Thank you very much. I guess it's clear to everyone that I've been thinking for a long time whether I'd come by or not, but in the end, it kind of gave me no peace. First of all, I'm not going to define the amendments. Not because I think the procedural issue is not exceeded. Because it has to be exceeded, because the solution needs to be found and because the gentlemen and the Slovenian National Party's lady also tabled the same amendment as the four parliamentary groups have tabled it, and we had a completely unnecessary discussion on this issue yesterday and today for two hours. But I will not vote for this reason, because there is now a real debate, a substantive time frame that is real. I don't know that. The government, Mr. Minister, didn't say that. If deadline 1.7 is real, it's okay to do it as soon as possible. If it's not real, I don't know if it's February 1st, maybe September 1st. I'm talking about a date. Indeed, before the vote, I would like the Minister to say which, in the Government's view, is a more realistic time frame, because the law that will be passed, which will set an unrealistic time frame, probably makes no sense. If you say that this is no longer possible, you will have, Mr President, formally correct, and it will be my fault that I did not come forward earlier in the debate. However, it is also likely that, exceptionally, the Minister should be given the floor. However, amendments are possible if we have all invested them during the meeting because they were invested in the meeting, then they are probably possible even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u345	Thank you. We can give the Minister the floor to explain which deadline is more appropriate, only if no one objects. I'm asking if anyone would mind. You don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u346	At the National Party, we are ready for the Minister to speak, but at least this time, the Minister must be prepared to take part in the responsibility. If the Minister is to ensure that the period for which a colleague of Potrč is asked and tried to legislate within the framework of the government's parties is to ensure that he is real, then we ask the Minister to place his confidential person on that deadline. Be so right at least this time because this deadline is not holding. Mr. Secretary, do you hope so?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u347	Thank you. Is that what you're saying? No one would mind if we gave the minister a word? All right. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u348	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. In view of the fact that this period is extended only for as long as the constitutional court procedure has prolonged the adoption of the law, this deadline allows us to carry out all the necessary actions, which are necessary, on 1 July.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u349	Thank you. I warn you, there is no further discussion. We're in the voice-explanatory phase. Mr. Pece, you've already explained your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u350	Thank you, Mr. President. I know a little of the rules of procedure. I truly expected that this unique violation, which we have just witnessed and which no one objected to, would mean that the Minister spoke during the period of explanation of vote, which means that the Minister has the right to vote, because only those who vote can explain their vote. But there is. The president's been corrected enough. He asked if anyone was in the way. I spoke on behalf of the Parliamentary Group and in agreement with the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, but we expected a little more from the Minister. Mr. Minister, we asked you if you were hoping to tie your existence to the minister and step down on the deadline you claim. You have two hands on the option. Minister, don't ask the National Assembly to embarrass itself in this area for the third time. Why don't you agree to a deadline that allows you to perform your functions? And Mr. Minister, if you're so very confident of your right, why don't you put up your ministry for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u351	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u352	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, before you objected to my fellow Member, you were, of course, bluffing at every level. You know that the Slovenian National Party has tabled three amendments. You have rejected the amendment to Article 1 and my colleague Barovic has spoken about this amendment, not about the amendment to Article 2, and therefore your smile, Mr Bajc, is completely superfluous. But it is true that you cannot know this if a person comes to Parliament just to look here and there. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Secretary, it's a little more urgent. But I understand what you're saying, given what I'm about to say, is humane distress and the lack of expertise you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u353	Thank you. I notice no one wants to explain their voice anymore. I am adjourning the meeting at the request of the Slovenian National Party and will continue at 22.23 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u354	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm asking the motioner if he wants a word. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u355	Your Honors are here! Today we passed a law on the media. Most of the Members spoke about how the media are being unfair to us. Those who were once in power were talking about how the media today are unfair to them, and those who are in power today were once talking about how the media are unfair to you. But the fact and the common denominator is not easy for us because we work long nights. And I believe we're gonna be working late tonight, too. As regards the position of the Slovenian National Party Group on the two amendments referred to in Article 2, I must point out that we have taken a closer look at the time-frame set out in the first amendment to Article 2, the first amendment, which is governed by the four parliamentary groups of the ruling parliamentary group. And again we came to the same realization: that it is not possible to carry out these tasks, which are directed by law from the Mutual to the carrying out of the congregation. Ladies and gentlemen, in his explanation of vote, which is a very interesting concept, given that he does not vote, he did not hope to lay down his office or ministry for the implementation of this law. It happened for the first time in the framework of Slovenian parliamentary democracy and parliamentary democracy in general, that the Minister does not stand behind his law or that the Minister advocates an amendment, and he certainly does not hope to guarantee it. We regret that the Minister does not say that this amendment is acceptable, that the amendment is such that he hopes to stand behind it. We say the opposite. Within the national party, we are convinced that he has done too much to be able, the emphasis on quality, to be done during the period proposed in the amendment. The amendment you are proposing within the framework of the four parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, does not allow for the quality preparation and the rule of law to be invoked by the Assembly and, last but not least, the reply or approval of this Regulation by the Minister. He's done more than that, and we can't reach them within this period. We will therefore, of course, oppose the first amendment to Article 2 – that is, the amendment you are proposing to the four groups of Members. We will support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, because we estimate that the timetable we offer is feasible and that only within such a time frame can we set out all the tasks necessary to carry out the transactions under the title of this Act. But it is true - and at this point, in these thirteen seconds, I would just like to point out that if an amendment under order number 1 is to be adopted, a thorough consideration is likely to be needed, a thorough consideration, even before the final decision on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u356	Thank you. We will first decide on the first amendment of the coalition groups. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment shall become irrelevant under the number two. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 50 Members and Members present, 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With this, he became an amendment under the number two immaterial. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u357	Thank you for your word. The amendment that we are proposing, in part in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but above all, this time with the said Rule of Procedure, could be the only subject of debate today, as the fact is, as it also states in the part of its explanation, the legislative and legal service under the Magnography Record, that it is only possible to submit additions to transitional and final provisions. Article 3 shall constitute the final provision. Article 2 did not present this provision, but was represented by a substantive provision. And we have never, on this side, started by my colleague Zagorac, colleague Žgajner Tavševa, colleague Bogdan Barovič, colleague Happy Friend and president or leader of the delegation of Zmago Jelinčič, to repeat that we will come into an awkward situation when this decision of the national assembly that you have just taken meets another instigator and this instigator will confirm the negative decision on the relationship of the national assembly. As far as the text of Article 3 of this Act is concerned, allow me to read it: "Proposal of the law referred to in Article 1 of this Act", emphasis and amendment in the text of the word, amendment of the word shall be submitted, "Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia within three months of the entry into force of this Act". I believe that you have all, or I sincerely hope, that you are Members of Parliament and Members who persist at 10:30 a.m. you have looked at the difference we are offering you and that you know what this difference means. I am not going to explain this to you because I think it was the duty of the Minister to stress the difference in the proposal we are offering you in the National Party. I would be very happy if, for once, we tried to avoid some kind of change, the emphasis is kind of political primitiveism and that you are looking exclusively through the motioners of the amendment. The amendment is, like the amendment to Article 2, aimed at quality work and, above all, at ensuring the implementation of the tasks set out in this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, read again the general explanation. In the National Party, of course, we will support the bill's proposal, the amendment, and I apologize, but of course I predict that because of the new disagreement in relation to the content of Article 2, in relation to the content of the law, we will need a 10-minute recess before the decision, Mr President, in the framework of the parliamentary group due to the new elements, that is, the adoption of the new amendment, which was adopted a little earlier, for consultation within the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u358	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We are in the debate on Article 3 and on the amendment to this Article. [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to an explanation of vote. Mr. Peca on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u359	On behalf of the Group of Members. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I believe that my words and my advertising are not taken maliciously. I would like to make it clear, and sincerely, that you understand the importance of the proposed amendments that we are offering you by the address or by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I'm sorry you're not ready to read the law's explanations. I see your smiles, your looks, but I know those looks and those smiles come from people who haven't even read the explanations. Today, remember that the National Assembly will meet again with the content of this bill's proposal because it has not accepted, or better said, it has accepted the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. And when I take a closer look at you, your opposition and your comments, I see that that's exactly the list of magazines. But that's your decision. Who are you following? Are you following the quality of the law? Are you only following the Minister's wishes and wishes? In the National Party, we will support the amendment to Article 3. And one more appeal and a call to all of you. Read the contents of the amendment to Article 3, read the explanation so that you will know what is going on. In a month or two, when the deadline referred to in Article 2 has expired, which you have previously defined as the final article, it will be too late. Then we will meet again with this content. It's a shame when we discuss next or after two sessions. We could've brought the matter to an end today. We will support the proposal in the National Party. And once again, I'm asking you or I'm just reminding you that we've asked for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u360	Mr Peče, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members may only request a suspension before the vote on a specific agenda item. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Jelinčič, then you'll get procedural. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sure that, despite the fact that all the amendments that have been tabled for this marriage should not be on the table at all, because it was a violation of everything. Everything we've learned in the years of democracy since 1992. Right now, democracy is on the stand for this law. The legal procedure is under review. In order to resolve at least one of this legal procedure, it is appropriate to support this amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 3. The amendment is simple and essentially shows an exit and offers an exit for you too. And if we vote on this amendment, at least some of this legal ambiguity will be clarified. It makes sense to vote on and support this amendment. Unless this is an ex-department objection to anything proposed by the Slovenian National Party. I think it makes sense to support the amendment, which reads as follows: The proposal for the law referred to in Article 1 of this Law shall be submitted by the RS Government to the RS National Assembly within three months of the application of this Act. I think it makes sense for you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u362	Thank you. Mr. Pache, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u363	Procedurally, Mr. President. Both you and each of us, Members and Members, are likely to know that it is possible to take a leave of office for consultation in the Group of Members in connection with the decision-making before the decision-making. We will now re-elect Article 3 or Article 3 as an amendment. This has been the practice of the National Assembly so far, and I ask you, precisely because of the new elements, this is the adoption of the amendment to Article 2, ladies and gentlemen, by which you have made a significant effort when you received the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, namely the Social Democrats, New Slovenia, DeSUS and the Slovenian People's Party, the text of the bill, in particular the consequences of the bill. You have embossed the impossible working conditions both for representatives of the Mutual and all those affected by this issue. One million Slovenes and Slovenians touch on this issue. You will deprive them of their investment in the title of the capital and the fertilisation of the capital. Mr President, I ask you to give us, or allow us, a topic as important as this, we are just trying to convince the other Members and allow us a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u364	Mr Pece, as you know very well, but perhaps not everyone knows, I will read the sentence in Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure: The individual parliamentary group can only interrupt such an interruption once at a certain point in the agenda. Mr. Pece, we are still at the same point in the agenda. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 39. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u365	Procedural or notification to the National Assembly. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not prepared to knowingly violate the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, as you are all doing in the ruling majority, and we are not prepared to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and part of the opposition, of course I apologize to the United List, which participates in this policy, and I will take the words of my colleague, 'the dirty business', so we predict obstruction from this place. Ladies and gentlemen, you who will remain, my advice, the advice of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, if you do not want us to meet this calvary again, with this misery of parliamentary democracy, do not support this law, we will go back to its decision under a fresh law that will allow for the normal decoupling of income, as provided for by Slovenian legislation. The national party is predicting obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u366	Thank you. Since there is no more explanation, we are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I am adjourning the 15th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
