ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Member and Members Roberto Battelli, Jožef Jerovšek, Aurelio Juri, mag. Vasja Klavora, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Maria Possonec, Dr. Mitja Slavinec and Janko Weber. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, representatives of the organisations of Slovenian national minorities and Slovenian emigrants and locals to the 13th item, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at the 23rd and 24th points, and representatives of the Council of Justice at the 32nd item of the agenda. With regard to the proposal to extend the agenda by informing the Prime Minister of the resignation of Dr Jožet Pavlic Damjan from his post as Minister, I also invited the Minister. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 17 March 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, an urgent procedure. You received a motion on the bench. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the National Party, we are convinced that there is already too much confusion in Slovenian legislation and, of course, the possibility that individual actors, whether political or otherwise, can exercise their right through a constitutional court. Therefore, we believe that it is reasonable to adopt such legislation as will, for the first time, hold the Constitutional Court and, for the second time, much more important that legislation be in favour of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are confident that the matter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance will reach all the moments in which Slovenian politics and, last but not least, the Slovenian government should not be burdened. The fact is that this law came into the parliamentary procedure in January of this year, due to the delay of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil its obligations under the Insurance Act regarding the transformation. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the complexities that you have caused in other political parties when you wanted to prevent the only normal transformation procedure introduced by the Slovenian National Party in the parliamentary procedure, we have achieved that today we are meeting with a law that has not been given its position by the mother's labour body if we are looking at the content of the law, that we are talking about a hybrid law on the part of the mother's labour body itself. As a result, if the law is passed tomorrow evening, we will be in a situation or members and members of the Mutual and Insurance and Insurance Group, whose more than 1 million are within our country, that the proposal and the content of the law will not be in line with the aspirations of the establishment or the enforcement of the acquis. The fact is, the law is in its content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Wait a minute, Mr. Pache. Reporters are asked to shut up or listen and observe or be removed from the hall. Please! Yes, thank you very much. You're very kind. Carry on, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President! We want to say that the content of the law before us today cannot be realized, and that this will leave a great legal confusion in the design or future way of ownership of each other. The fact is that this law, which is before us today and which is why we also propose to withdraw the final vote of this point, defines or carries three uncertainties in its content. First, the time limit for the congregation to be held or the congregation to be convened is 30 days. As you know, the content of the bill refers to 1.5, which means May 1st. We will come into a situation where the congregation will not be able to reach it. In doing so, I remind you that if the National Assembly accepts this today, it will accept this by acting deliberately to prevent the assembly from being convened. Another time. The Assembly’s reference requires a rule. There's not a rulebook yet. Once again, we come into a time deficit or by adopting this law, you push into the time deficit of the said organs of society. And the third time. This Regulation requires the opinion of the Ministry. So we come up with three new dimensions, for which none of them can be exposed to a normal period of time, in order to hold a meeting in order to adopt the decisions that are necessary at the Assembly, because it is the legislator, that is, the national assembly, who has commissioned this institution in the past term. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we propose to withdraw the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 56. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 56.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly an extension of the agenda by notifying Dr. Jožet Pavlič Damjan of his resignation from the post of Minister without a portfolio responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. You received the proposal by letter dated 24 March 2006. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to explain the position of the Member's Club on the proposal to extend the agenda item. The LDS will not oppose and support the extension of the agenda with this item. On the one hand, as we all know, it is a formality and, on the other hand, this formal act, linked to the resignation of Minister Damian, illustrates, in our view, the clairvoyant situation in the government and indicates that the government is not capable of dealing with the tasks and reforms it has set itself. At the LDS, we expected derogations, which, if I say so, would be the result of the work of Minister Damian, i.e. the resignations of ministers who are not able or willing to implement certain changes and reform measures. But it happened the other way around. And this was somehow foretold by the Minister himself in his resignation when he presented himself in the defense that after the Chinese horoscope there was a fiery horse, which is probably not a good sign for many. And this forecast has come true. Minister Damian has resigned for personal reasons. That's the kind of explanation we believe. We've had this kind of personal withdrawal for the past year. People, including Minister Damian, give up because they have had enough, they have had enough informal pressure, manipulation, play, bullying, blockades, conductive media messages and similar underlying policy instruments. Therefore, they prefer to go alone rather than to be withdrawn. The difference with Minister Damian is that he was appointed Minister by this coalition and this authority to legitimize and gain a sense of expertise and persuasiveness. Damian fell for it when he was appointed, and apparently this maneuver was soon overlooked. Some of us have already pointed out, in his defense of the competent working body, the inadequacy of the job he is running, the fact that 17 people in his service will face and deal with structures across ministries, which also count several thousand people to be perceived as someone who is only heavier, but who does not have responsibility for the vital areas that are subject to reform. If we want to appoint a minister who resigns from this post, it should have happened in order to at least become Deputy Prime Minister. Let me finish. I quote the columnist from the last Saturday annex. "Damian came with a noise and went for his fingers." This is also a metaphor for reforms. They started with the promise of big bangs and big changes, and they're obviously going to end up in a conceptless one. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the policy of small steps. [[...]] This government is doing exactly what it has shown to others so ruthlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Peche. Please don't disturb the session. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! Also in the national party's parliamentary group, we would like to give our views on the matter. True, we do not hope or hope to take the right to comment on a personal reason if it is or is not true. However, we would like to submit, at least according to our assessment or expressed on our part, the unreality of such action of the former, if we can now call it, the Minister, as of course the entire government in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that it is sad that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after a few hours of discussion within the government, will, of course, appoint a person under the responsibility of a person who is willing to take over this function for a few months, better said in three months. In doing so, we would, of course, like to stress our support for the word 'unreality', which marks the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with such appointments. The fact is that, at least in this case, it is a ministry that has advocated that it will be one of the most difficult decisions in our country, and my assessment of the most negative decisions in our country, but, in any case, we estimate that it is irresponsible on the part of the government, that the same person is acting as a renunciation or that one of the opposition parties approaches this place, in our case, the United List of Social Democrats. It is our belief that if the Slovenian government and the National Assembly want to maintain some kind of credibility before citizens and citizens in exchange for the proposed and much-sung reforms, including, among other things, more than 100 million Slovenian Tolars for propaganda alone, this task should, of course, be assumed by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as 1a. the agenda item, as soon as the agenda is set. The College of the President of the National Assembly proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for a decree supplementing the decision establishing and the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the proposal by letter dated 24 March 2006. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Gulic. Here you go, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we will not object to this extension because, after a long-term consideration, we have decided to engage constructively in this committee. It is that, of course, we are still waiting for a decision to be taken by the Commission's Constitution, but, of course, we would like to be constructively involved in further work or in the initial work of the Commission because it is a matter of transferring extremely sensitive documents from the work of the previous Commission to that Commission. Of course, we expect that, according to the fact that we are the largest opposition party, the strongest opposition party, we will also be given a suitable place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members. We support the enlargement of the agenda in the Slovenian National Party Group. In the final stage, the situation is precisely the result of the Slovenian National Party's proposal to fight against existing and growing corruption. However, I think it makes sense, at least on behalf of the Group of Members, to give a surprise about the speech on the constructive nature of individual parties, while they objected to the establishment of a stronger, better-quality committee whose proposal of law it contained and which we will meet today or in the course of that meeting. We are also convinced that the constructive approach on which the speaker spoke before me cannot reflect or reflect the duality that if an individual parliamentary group objected to the establishment of such a commission, it is later called upon to lead this commission. According to our assessment, a constructive approach is needed from the beginning to the end, otherwise there is no constructive approach. This means that it is necessary to agree already with the establishment of such a commission, and then to lead this committee, not just to take the lead, while objecting to the content. And let me take this opportunity. Mr Gulič, let me inform you that there is no constitutional commission but a constitutional court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you. Since no member group wants to discuss the proposal any more, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none.) [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as the 30th item of the agenda, on Wednesday 29 March following the end of the vote. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference, with the additions adopted. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th meeting of the assembly has been set. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda - to the announcement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia of Dr. Jožet Pavlič Damijan from the place of Master without the resources responsible for the alignment and monitoring of the implementation of the strategy of the development of Slovenia. On 21 March 2006, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, informed me that Dr Jože Pavlič Damian had resigned from his post as Minister without a portfolio responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. The Minister has informed me that he does not wish to explain his resignation in the National Assembly. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Jožet Pavlič Damian has ceased to serve as Minister without a resource responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall carry out ongoing operations until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the Prime Minister in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Mr Damian for his cooperation and wish him the best in his work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Dear Members, I ask you to take your seats and calm down! Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Once again, with regard to this agenda item, please calm down again. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 27 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. To that end, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will answer the questions raised at the 13th and 14th meetings of the Assembly, at which he did not respond due to his absence. Member Jakob President, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question after all the Members who have been notified ask one question. Members have 3 minutes to ask questions. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the question within five minutes at the most. The same is true if the question is raised by several ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the reply. But he can't ask an additional, new question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, the following ministers, Minister of Transport Janez Bozič and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, who is here, apologized for his absence from 5 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As already said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr. Pece, you want a procedural question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of the order in which questions have been asked, it is clear that the first question of the Member of Parliament will be asked by Member Miran Potrč. On the basis of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, which defines the structure of the asking of questions sent, it is clear and indicates the relationship between the position and the opposition. In fact, Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates or gives the opportunity for members of the opposition to ask several questions sent to the Prime Minister, as it is a fact that they do not have regular contact with him. The second fact is that representatives of ruling parties, which of course is also logical, do not ask any more questions sent to the Prime Minister, because they are actually in contact with him whenever they want. On the basis of the current situation and the functioning of the political market, it is clear that the United List of Social Democrats or the SD has, according to the new, assumed the role of co-ordinator of the Ministry of Development of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, this clearly indicates the involvement of the parliamentary group and the parties to the United List of Social Democrats, as well as the communication, according to our assessment and according to the behaviour emanating from the daily newspaper, almost daily between the President of this party and the Prime Minister. We estimate that it makes sense to maintain political hygiene or culture, however you wish to maintain the meaning of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure and that it is possible for the opposition to ask more questions, in other words, that those parties who are in regular cooperation and are able to contact and receive an answer from the Prime Minister are, of course, excluded from the United List of Social Democrats or Social Democrats due to coordinated work in the field or coordination of work in the field of the Ministry of Development of the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that you will take into account the National Party's proposal in maintaining the value of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Mr. Pece, I'm sorry, it wasn't just mean, it was inappropriate for this moment. I think it was a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. We therefore turn to the questions raised by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Miran Potč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Slovenia has adopted the principles of free movement of capital and services by entering the European Union. The first effects of this are reflected in the increased interest of foreign investors, especially in the field of telecommunications and banking. They will certainly also be strengthened in the field of energy, transport infrastructure and other most pro-pulsive industries. The government has set itself an exit from the economy as one of the priorities. Unfortunately, it did not do much in this direction in a year and a half, except for the contested sale of shares in Mercator. In its orientations, the government has opted for a 26xy privatisation model, which means 26% of state resources, 26% or 27% of strategic or portfolio investors, regardless of the economic sector, market performance, development rate, strategic importance and so on. In the Social Democrats, we considered a flat-rate model to be inadequate. We have always been convinced that a concrete model needs to be taken into consideration, taking into account specific circumstances and objectives. It seems that you are also looking for different solutions to this model in the case of the ownership of the Ljubljana Bank. In view of the great importance and consequences of privatisation models, given the Government's vague views on them, according to the public's known differences in them also between coalition parties, and given some assumptions that these differences are also the "special" reasons for Mr Damjan's departure from the Ministry's post, I ask: What is and is the real strategy of the government in the process of privatisation and withdrawal of the country from the economy, what are its specific programmes, what models and what time frame will they be implemented? With the expected increased interest of foreign investors, the government is probably considering protecting national interests. I'm asking you: What are the specific national interests, what are the criteria for determining and how and when it intends to implement them? And finally. In the light of the above questions, I ask you: Can you say anything concrete about the model of privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank, how this process is affected by differences between government parties, and how much has the resignation of Minister Damian affected this process and the differences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, it concerns the most up-to-date developments, as there is a gap between the actual situation and the planned reform measures. In the absence of such a gap, these measures would not be necessary. The situation is not as ideal as we would imagine it, so we want to modernise it. Part of this modernisation is also the completion of the privatisation process, I repeat that we are doing this again because it has not been done so far. If it were, the Slovenian economy would be more developed, it would be further, but this is the case. And when it comes to this process, we don't miss anything in this term. In the documents that bind this coalition, this government, and also in the promises we made, we promised privatisation, which will be deliberate and in some parts gradual. And so far, we're completely in line with the timeline that was set. At this point, we have proposals from working groups practically for all strategic sectors or businesses and banking institutions, except for the two para-national funds. Until a proposal or a privatisation proposal is made or the future role of the two para-national funds, the working group established for this purpose will identify or draw up this working proposal in a short time. With this, we will round up our work at this working level and then follow a formal procedure, as laid down in the legislation. At this point, we cannot therefore speak of differences in the concepts of privatisation, where the government has not yet confirmed any of these concepts and this has not been planned. The procedures are in preparation. In some cases, partial privatisation has already been carried out; the New Ljubljana Bank is such a case, here we have a foreign strategic partner with a significant ownership stake, and before the government takes a follow-up procedure or decides to continue the privatisation process, we want this step as far as possible to be aligned with the strategic partner that has already been chosen in the previous mandate. With regard to the starting points on which we are negotiating, there have been no differences with the strategic partner in the coalition and in the government, nor have there been any differences in relation to the Minister who has resigned. What is the national interest? The national interest in the economy is a well-standing, well-functioning economy capable of achieving such a growth rate that real prosperity is possible on this basis. It's our national interest. In individual economic sectors, there is also a real relationship between responsibility and competence. One of these areas where this relationship is also to be followed is the banking system, where, in the final phase of the country or Bank of Slovenia, if the banks themselves are not capable of doing so, guarantees bank deposits that go bankrupt. Here we have a somewhat unique solution in relation to the other transition countries or the new Member States of the European Union. The matter is not as simple as it has been tried in recent days in the public eye, and here there must also be an approach that will ensure the long-term stability of the Slovenian financial system. The 26xy formula is not absolute. In some companies or industries, of course, it is of no importance that the State retains quarter ownership. This is meaningful and necessary where the presence of a branch or some activity at home is ensured, the possibility of influencing some strategic decisions, but not at the same time on current business. And this formula is simply, and this is indicated in this context of economic and social reforms, useful in some specific cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The next question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece. Excuse me. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Yes, I do. Mr President, the 26xy model was the only one in the framework programme adopted by the government for reforms, so I mentioned it. I am pleased that he is not the only one in terms of realisation, because I have always been an opinion and a social democrat, that he is not real and that a concrete relationship needs to be taken into account. Nevertheless, I would not agree that privatisation is going according to plans. This moment runs more in the direction of taking over human resources functions and influences, as shown in many companies. It is difficult to say that it is not true and has a major impact on business. Secondly, what is important in this regard is the question and the answer was not; where and how the government, which claims that the programme is going to take place, will direct the funds it receives from privatisation, or from development, or from this point on political control of the economy, and finally, given that you agree that this is one of the important or most topical issues for the government, I ask you whether you think it would be good to have a little more knowledge of this topic also of the State Assembly and to have the necessary discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. I think that the Slovenian economy in situations that are not always the easiest, which works well. We will also never agree to the thesis that only 5 people in Slovenia are able to run companies well. There should also be an opportunity for younger, even more educated, students. If they never get these opportunities, they'll never be able to prove themselves. By talking about the fact that there are congestions, of course, it is not possible to substantiate with data, especially thanks to these towing horses of the Slovenian economy, as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises, which remain a real force in Slovenia. Economic growth is for conditions that are at least partially stabilising due to our intentions to take over the euro, which is solid, with inflation declining; such a good relationship has practically never been achieved. Of course, it can still be fixed. As far as the buying-in from privatisation is concerned, in some cases it is predetermined by the legislation to which it should be directed, the purchase from the sale of state shares in banks is a matter of reducing public debt, it is not possible to spend for anything else. The rest of the purchase is a relatively large source, a single source and how to spend it most wisely, the government will take note of the national assembly resolution on national programmes, which we will submit in a short time, and in which our proposal will also be how to spend some of these funds as productively as possible. Now, as has already been said, the debate will follow on the government proposal. At this point, however, if you thought about concrete proposals for the privatisation of certain companies or banks, this debate will not be, because it would be very pointless to discuss publicly the actions that are yet to be made at a time when we are negotiating with strategic partners or in cases where concepts are not yet being developed. So to a very specific question here, without being able to answer, but it would not be wise and appropriate to answer until things have been set.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President expressed his belief that the withdrawal of the country from the economy is one of the government's fundamental objectives and one of the important tasks of the government. I would like to point out that the differences between the performance assessments of this work and the actual situation are not only on the part of the Social Democrats, but many economic analysts have found that at these points the government is relatively unsuccessful. That things are going very slowly and that so far the main moves are being carried out mainly on the line of taking over staff functions, taking over positions in supervisory councils, through them changes in the boards of companies, many times not by the criterion of performance or failure, but also by the criterion of political membership of candidates and newly appointed members in administrations. I can accept your conclusion that the debate on the programmes under way may also be a privatisation programme of the Ljubljana Bank, may not be reasonable, and the debate on the issue of the withdrawal of the country from the economy is still very useful, so in the Group of Social Democrats we propose that the Government's replies to the question raised in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure be discussed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Porč, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Respectable present. Mr President Cukjat, in the introductions you have marked the Slovenian National Party's procedural proposal as a sinister one, so we can understand that you are making wickedly the National Party's wish that things will finally become transparent in this country, but, on the other hand, I am surprised by your reaction and, of course, the result which is that politics is also clouded in this house, that is, in the House of the National Assembly. Allow me to raise a question addressed to the Prime Minister. Mr Janša, the structure of the budget revenue shows on the one hand will be ignorance, ignorance or incompetence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because the fact is that the government, as a financial institution in our country, encourages the so-called growth of tax revenues. The fact is that, among all of our country's revenues, tax revenues account for more than 92% of all revenue, which means, on the other hand, that the State or the Ministry of Finance, and in my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is incurring those financial revenues which, of course, cannot be affected by citizens, because the fact is that taxes and other taxes must be settled, otherwise they are in violation. And that the state, of course, can, under the assumption or under the common denominator, that it is completely incompetent all the time, only increases and introduces new taxes. In this regard, allow me to point out that there is still an increase or tendency to increase this instrument, i.e. a tax policy which, in my opinion, only points to the greed and greed of the Slovenian government. The fact is that there are two laws, two new tax laws which will result in an additional tax burden for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time for a property tax, we must not forget that real estate is already or is now subject to three taxes, for the first time, value added tax, real estate tax and, last but not least, property tax, as well as the local community's ability to "screw" real estate taxes through the so-called building land tax. That is not enough for you, of course, to assume that you will collect from the citizens an additional 30 billion Slovenian tolars, but you have, of course, introduced the national assembly in the forecast of your work and part of the public, of course, in a very, in my opinion, an unfair and misleading way. You are also preparing a new taxation of transport taxes, despite the fact that transport assets have already been taxed three times in the existing system. Mr Janša, I would like to know how much these taxes are going to be - they keep the words coming from the Ministry of Finance to go to real estate tax for up to 2%, which means that any real estate owner would want you, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If I expose you as a person of the government, in the 1950s he committed funds representing the market value of a certain property. [[...]] Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you, too, for that question. First, let me say that the purpose of the tax reform being prepared is to simplify the tax system for the first time, and secondly, to redistribute the tax burden slightly and, above all, to reduce. One of the important objectives of reform is to reduce public spending. Therefore, it is also possible to talk, of course, about reducing the necessary tax revenues, but not entirely. With the abolition of the tax on paid salaries or payroll, the budget will fall out, and this process has already begun, this tax has already started this year, between the budget resources will be less, depending on whether we consider only directly or indirectly, between 80 billion and 120 billion tolars. Now, so much cannot be saved, especially not at the same time, so, of course, a more appropriate resource must be found in terms of productivity and, of course, a slightly higher burden of consumption and non-productive property is planned. Talking about all the property being taxed and all the cars, of course, is speaking in mind. When the law being prepared is in the procedure, you will also see very concrete proposals. In any case, it is of course a shift that needs to be made if we are to create conditions for faster economic growth and for faster development and progress. This cannot be done in existing relations. Now, I can serve you with some calculations that have been made lately. The fact is that, of course, tax changes are always sensitive, that everyone is calculating possible effects from their own position, but the government, as well as this national assembly, must also have general benefits. If we wanted to replace the inflows to the budget at the expense of abolishing taxes on paid salaries and would receive this compensation by raising both rates of value added tax, then this would increase the cost of living by a maximum of 1.3%. Now, if we went to a single tax rate on income, that would add up to half a percent to the cost of living. Together, if we went to both solutions, this would represent 1.7% of the point of a large increase by, as I said, roughly half of this would be covered by a reduction in public consumption or a reduction in costs. Of course, this rise in both rates could be small, but although this has been the most lively debate in recent months, this compensation could also be resolved by a single value added tax rate that would be around 18% in this case. In fact, this could further increase the cost of living for households that are in the lowest income class, but the government is proposing, at the same time, to the extent that they go to this solution, but this is only one possible way to raise the general benefit which, on the other hand, helps those who have the lowest income. The calculations that have been made show that speaking, which we have heard many times and have often regretted speaking more in mind, what moves this will be, how the poor will be taxed at the expense of the rich and so on, do not hold on to how the cost of living will be increased by 10%, none of which is true, now there are very concrete calculations on the table, around which it is possible to talk and on which it is then possible to make a real decision, and there is not just one option on the table. And as has already been said, it is not the government's intention to tax everything in order - real estate, cars and so forth, but it is the government's intention to tax non-productive property more - luxury, in order to stimulate people to rule in productive ways [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Pece, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you for that opportunity. Mr Prime Minister, don't mind me, but whether you are deliberately deceiving or deceiving the bill or two laws already made within the Ministry of Finance, you do not know. Allow me, for the first time, to say that your purpose is to simplify the tax system. Hold, as far as we're looking, [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] is a simplification simply said to raise all taxes. [[...]] We can say that, but of course this is very unfair to citizens and citizens. You further state that this is absolutely necessary because of the budget deficit, but the fact is that the budget deficit is due to other arguments, particularly the country's greed, and this budget deficit is much easier to fill through the part that I told you at the outset, the so-called non-tax revenue. And when you're talking about redistribution of tax liabilities, you're saying that both of the anticipated taxes, unfortunately, are not going to burden all real estate. In so doing, let me inform you that it is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance who has said that the basic tendency of the law, which will additionally tax real estates, is the first time that a register of all real estates is created so that all these immovable property can be retaxed. Then why are you coming in like this, I think it's a short session of the National Assembly, the Real Estate Records Act, if not just to tax everything. This was one of the basic trends of the law. And let me point out this terribly interesting thing that you said in your response, namely that the cost of living will not rise. Mr. Premium, if you know the formula to increase taxes, products will of course be cheap, all congratulations. But I don't believe it, and I know you don't know this formula because of course this formula isn't there. If you increase taxes, you will increase basic necessities of life. And one more thing, with such answers, Mr Premiums, and I advise you to have more concrete answers next time, will not be enough even 150 million Slovenian Tolars, as you devote them to the electoral campaign, when you show people how raising taxes socially can have a positive impact on the lowest layer. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	I will try to explain some things further, although many cases have been thrown into the same basket and I strongly doubt that everyone is judging it. Look at the Member of Parliament, raise productivity, provide the conditions for us to be more successful, there is nothing we can do with a resolution but with the wishes that all Members of the Government have signed. Some measures need to be taken and about what is going on, because this has been tested in successful countries. Slovenia currently has one of the biggest workloads in the European Union. What most citizens and citizens in Slovenia have and contribute to is their own work, their own effort, and this is among the most taxed in Europe. If we want to reduce this tax, we need to make some moves and we want to make these moves so that productivity, knowledge, innovation can come more into play and that this will have positive results. I did not say that in some cases we can avoid a minimal increase in costs, but if wages are higher on the other hand and in response to one of the following questions I will also present some data, if the standard is higher and so on, this will not be any problem, since this will still be a positive calculation, not only at the level of the national economy, but also at the level of each individual who has to pay the rates. The real estate record law is necessary for all of us to be equal before the law, not for all of us to be taxed, but for all of us to be equal, and as the government has already said, not to propose taxation, I do not know which drafts you have already seen. At the moment we have not proposed anything, it will not propose taxation in kind, but merely taxation of non-productive property, it will be a general approach. It is said that there will be no increases in taxes on housing, for houses, for what is necessary for normal life, or for I do not know cars, vehicles which are difficult to consider as luxury. The second is when it comes to high-priority cars and so on. There could be some movement here. But all these laws will be passed in this national assembly, all the data will be available, and I am sure that together we can come up with rational and effective solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr Pece, you have the proposal to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. I think it would be dangerous, little or no, for the National Assembly to adopt such a response, especially taking into account the knowledge we have just witnessed to him that the premiums, namely the Prime Minister, take into account that the only possible measure for the growth of society and productivity is to raise taxes and introduce new taxes. Of course, this kind of thinking, I can say with certainty, is wrong, but especially harmful. And I believe that, through the vote, a possibility allowing a Member to hold a broader debate under Article 246 would be taken a few steps further. One small step we have witnessed through the second part of Mr Janez Janš's answer. In the first part, it has ensured that the prices of living needs will not rise, while in the second part it already allows for the possibility that they will be for certain products. Therefore, if we had allowed a debate that lasted longer than ten minutes, we would probably have come to the realization that such a government policy in particular in the fiscal field would lead to incitement, and most likely through a debate which, I think, would have expressed quite a bit of expertise, at least on the basis of the working experience of some Members who were, after all, ministers, and with the active cooperation of the government, would have led to and signaled to this government a second option, not just an increase in taxes, as that element of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the mission will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr. Mag. Milan M. Squeakl will next question the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Janez Janša, before the elections you promised a better life, accelerated development, withdrawal of politics from the economy, release of Slovenia. Until now, you've only taken care of your friends' better lives. In suspicious business, your government has only set off 29 billion taxpayers' money at Mercator's place, and you're trading provenly capable. Of you today, even those who have escorted the arrival of the savior to Earth claim that it is someone who does not know, cannot or does not want to carry out reforms. You really don't know or you don't want to reform? I ask you: When and how do you intend, if any, to implement the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia? We both know that the strategy for the development of Slovenia provides for a cheaper country, a more competitive economy and the release of the potentials of Slovenia. However, Mr Janša, how will you specifically do this if you continue to act counter-reformally and destroy the potentials of Slovenia when building absolute power? You yourself can no longer deny the following facts: that you have politically subordinated key public servants; that in the budget you have allocated money mainly for the military and repressive authorities; and that Slovenian future generations have a record of debt of €240 billion for a single project. Thirdly, in the pursuit of absolute authority in companies, you change virtually all directors, according to the principle of 'no matter what you know, it is important that you are ours'. And for the fourth time, to make it easier to share yours when you rule, you shut down the anti-corruption commission, you replaced the director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the director of the budget control office, and you demolished the state audit commission. Slovenia is an increasingly free country, an increasingly indebted country, and is a country where we have 13% more unemployed in January this year in the Employment Service than in the previous year. At the invitation of the President of the State Audit Commission, who is supposed to be reviewing 500 billion transactions, does no one sign up - people are afraid to look under your fingertips? Mr Janša, please tell us: How will you really implement the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you for that question, though I don't know if. We both feel the same way about which session we are at, because you've announced the next question and let me answer it. When and how do you really plan to implement the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia? Correct question, also very important. The government is in the midst of efforts to make what has been in preparation for several years and which is some strategic development document of this country probably for the first time since its existence has actually been realized. To this day, as I have said before, when I answered Mr Ptræ, we have accomplished everything that was on our timeline until spring 2006, and in no way are we late and there is no gap. At this point, when conceptual proposals were mainly made, legal solutions are being drawn up to achieve these concrete movements. For the development strategy of Slovenia contains, as they have said, some very concrete commitments, one of these commitments is to achieve 70% employment by the end of this period, which we are talking about, by 2013 and, of course, to achieve the level of economic development of the European Union at that time. Today, when we talk about this, for the first time, I can list the things that have been done from this framework of economic and social reforms or the modernisation programme, so that no one would think that everything is just happening in theory. The fact is that the government has taken a number of measures so far and has also implemented many of them, namely measures relating to competitiveness and economic growth. This is a reduction in public-financial expenditure, an increase in competitiveness, in measures related to privatisation and the development of the financial system, which we have discussed in response to the previous question. Then it is a gradual elimination of the tax on paid wages. This year, this tax is significantly lower. For the first time in the history of the independent Slovenian state, the government has reduced a considerable amount of tax. A new development aid has been introduced to invest in research and development and these reliefs will be raised to invest in the demographically threatened regions once the European Commission has approved this solution, as this is the case with State aid. A change was adopted, after which VAT is paid on the basis of a realisation or a paid realization for a large number of taxpayers, which was previously a major problem and could not be resolved. Last year we also received a resolution on the national, research and development programme for the period until 2010, since 2000 we have been without this document. A programme to remove administrative barriers has been adopted. A lot of this has already been done. The realisation also includes measures for a fairer and more motivated system of social transfers, the consolidation of records, the transfer of all aid to the social work centre. At the same time, a reorganisation of the employment agency is being carried out. Some macroeconomic calculations have also been made on the effects of the proposed reforms. Today, we know about where we will be in 2008, 2010 or 2013, if we carry out the reforms or if we move forward, diplomatically, as we say so far and these numbers can be listed below. In short, the government is working very seriously to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia, by first having to complete the work on this strategy, the document we inherited, amend, supplement and then adopt. The measures already implemented also produce positive results. At this point, Slovenia is at the forefront of many macroeconomic indicators, or most macroeconomic indicators, among the new members of the European Union, and will also be the first to expand the euro area or the European Monetary Union in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Mr. Janša, in my question, I have only mentioned the facts that seem to hurt you. Look, some information. Economic growth is lower in 2005 than in 2004, and unemployment is higher than 2004. True, with the operating professor who resigned, they made a lot of noise for nothing, for once. You have adopted many resolutions, but when you replaced dozens of directors, you influenced the fact that the value of these companies fell by 7% from the performance of your government to today. For more than 200 billion money, this blew up due to the actions of the Yangtze government. Mr. Jansha! Your operation, I call it "the takeover of Slovenia", is in line with tactics, when first a political order of living force takes over the material and technical base, and it costs as much as it wants. And of course, since this costs a lot, it is necessary to silence those who would notice it, so the freedom of the media and the supervisory authorities must be eliminated. Let's be specific. Tax on paid wages. Your already retired Minister of Development said here a month ago that it's not a problem to terminate it this year. Or you'll do it. This would be entirely in line with your other important action to reduce public spending by 120 billion. But not by being in debt in Europe. Not like that. By actually reducing public spending. However, Mr Janša, it is difficult to save when you built yourself a new office for 2 and a half billion, a new round hall, and for the first time in 100 years you moved the government's seat from an office that was good for all government presidents, somewhere else, at a time when the unemployment money was running low or there was no money to build the National University Library. And not least, when I mentioned the business mentioned earlier, Mr Janša, how did you manage to be excluded from being among the investigators in the case of Mercator's case, neither among the witnesses nor among the investigators. Answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	So if with these statements that we have now listened to, you are arguing the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, then I am not surprised that you cannot be relaxed because it has nothing to do with it. Things hold as well as your statement that after 100 years we first moved the government headquarters. Slovenia has a government for as long as there is time, and unfortunately this is not 100 years. As far as the money spent on rebuilding the building on Gregorčičev is concerned, I am the wrong address for these findings, because this renovation of the building was started three or four years ago, mainly all paid before and only what we did is that we rationalised things and that instead of 200 in the same building we provided an additional 100 jobs because we reduced offices. This has been our contribution to this consumption. I also run another government, which is the first in the history of Slovenia, which actually reduced the number of employees in the state administration at the end of last year and thus actually saved some money. Previously, the number of employees has increased, 500, 600 in one year of the rule of the Liberal Democracy, even by 1,500 per year, with a lot of decisive measures, of course things can be rationalised and saved. Of course, the effects of the reforms that are being planned will also be partially implemented, and it will be possible to measure once concrete results have been achieved. Today, of course, it is perfectly legitimate to say that nothing will come out of it. It is normal for us to have different views that the opposition is more critical. I regret only that these ideas were not in the previous 12 years, if this had been proposed earlier on the table, realized, then we would have a significantly easier job now and in fact my friends would be more pleased, now mostly tired and burned when they work 16 hours a day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you. You want to complete the answer. Here is or would you like to make a proposal to consider the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	I therefore wish that, given that Mr Janša's complementary response has not satisfied anyone, except his, that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 216, we should discuss this response. Mr Janša did not answer the question of how he intends to make a cheaper, more competitive country, how he will unlock the potentials of Slovenia. He forgot to say that he taxed each of us in the middle, on interest, and every fifth tolar will go new for the needs of the state. Mr Janša, with a lot of statistical gymnastics, without taking into account the newly employed soldiers and the people in the hospital, you certainly have not been able to reduce the number of civil servants. Let me tell you again, it is true, you have politically subordinated public servants, unrelenting punishments either by abolishing their institution or by demolishing them. But in the budget you gave money for things close to you, the military, the repressive authorities, but you didn't spend enough money on unemployment because otherwise unemployment wouldn't increase. Instead of saving the Vrhnika leather industry, preventing forgiveness in Prevent, Bela Krajina or offering a hand Glass Rogaška Slatina, you moved under the sky to a new round hall where you are thinking about the future of Slovenia. This project, Mr Janša, was not set up as a project for the new office of the President and the cabinet of the Prime Minister; it was something else. And fourthly, of course, Mr Janša, you have replaced virtually all directors, and this affects economic development, it affects the decline in the value of these companies on the Slovenian stock exchange. It would therefore be good to have a precise debate on how the strategy for the development of Slovenia will be implemented, how public spending will be reduced, how you will be able to stop the trend of increasing unemployment. A debate is needed on what Slovenia is building, Mr President. This is of course Slovenia's absolutist government, this is Slovenia, which is increasingly indebted, increasingly free and where freedom of the media and supervisory authorities is abolished. We therefore propose in the Liberal Democracy Club that if you are serious about the debate on the strategy for the development of Slovenia, this should be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you. The proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Cwickel, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the question on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, what changes in legislation and other measures is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia planning in the future to improve the situation for the family in Slovenia? The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the country protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this. More and more facts suggest that the current situation in our country does not follow these constitutional provisions. In Slovenia, the number of extra-marital communities, separate laws, single parent families and so on is increasing. In the Slovenian legal order, there is a whole series of solutions that not only enable but even encourage citizens and citizens not to decide to enter into a marriage so as not to decide on the birth of children. Let me briefly state just a few facts. The tax system does not recognise the imposition of benefits at the level of real costs for the maintenance, training and education of children. The rules do not encourage couples to enter into a marriage, but on the contrary, the result is that, in the case of a separate life - of course, it is not necessary for them to live separately in fact - to benefit from higher family benefits, allowances and greater benefits. Recent amendments to the rules governing the payment of kindergartens have shown that some, especially farmers and entrepreneurs, have been in a hopeless situation. The situation in the labour market is very poor, especially for women who intend to have children. The conditions for obtaining the first home for young families are also an important issue. Parents often turn to us with the conclusion that we would be in a more favorable position as parents if we did not live in a marriage. It is essential to incorporate principles in legislation that will promote family life and allow families, in particular young people, to have more children. Finally, let me mention just one concrete example, if I could also present a whole series of letters that we receive from parents from all over Slovenia. The advantage of a student who chooses to live together and enter into a marriage is to lose each of his children's allowances, which would otherwise receive at least 26 years of age as a regular undergraduate student. If both come from socially weak families, this could mean more than 40,000 tolars a month. And how should such a decision be justified? Marriages are legally bound to survive each other. In four years, students who study regularly are deprived of nearly 2 million tolars of child support because they have entered into a marriage. What does this mean if a child is born in such a student family, and perhaps there is no need to emphasize it? That is why, Mr President, I ask you: What will the government specifically do to improve the situation of the Slovenian family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you, too, for that question. You have already given some information yourself, some have already responded, and the fact is that the government is aware of the role and importance of the family. The coalition also placed the family in a coalition contract in an important place. We have a law on parental protection and family benefits that has regulated this area with a system comparable to those in more developed European countries. Although this law has some shortcomings, we are removing them with a novel that the government has recently adopted. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has also taken a number of measures beyond what is required by law. In an effort to strengthen the role of the father in the family and to ensure better coordination of family and professional life, the Ministry has approached the implementation of the project "Friendly Business Families". The aim is to encourage employers to offer more flexible jobs or more flexible working hours wherever possible, and these options are far from being used in these frameworks or in Slovenia than in any comparable country. Then this is about the measures introduced by the amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. For example, this provides for the exemption from payment of employers' contributions to the employment of young people up to the age of 26. Employers who employ unemployed persons in places vacated for maternity leave will receive additional benefits. This prevents employees from going on maternity leave because they have not been compensated. For the changes already mentioned in the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefit, they extend the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood to parents who are self-employed, as well as to one of the parents who fosters or protects two children, or to the sixth year of age and an older child. A higher amount is provided for the large family allowance, for families with three children about 92 thousand tolars, and a higher allowance for families with four or more children will be introduced, which will amount to 100,000 tolars. So far, the amount of the allowance for all large families has been the same. Under the conditions for obtaining a child supplement, there is no longer a condition of permanent residence, but it is only a condition of residence. In addition, it is envisaged to delete the condition of a pre-graduate study in order to comply with the organisation of education in accordance with the Bologna Declaration. The Ministry is also preparing a strategy to raise fertility, one of the foundations of which is the promotion of equal division of work in the family or family work and parenthood between the two partners, which, according to numerous analyses, has an important or very important impact on the decision on each further child in the family. The benefit for dependent children in the Income Act is determined on the basis of the minimum costs for a child over 15 years of age. These are 80% of the minimum income for an adult. These calculations were used to determine the benefit for 2005, amounting to 475,000 tolars. Relief for a dependent child in 2006 shall be coordinated or coordinated over the coming years with the cost of living. The amount of relief is, of course, also increased by the number of children. As for kindergartens that are extremely important for family policy, they belong to the original jurisdiction of the congregations, of course, the government is trying to coordinate with local communities. It is also very important to solve the housing issue, especially when it comes to the first solution to the housing problem, and there are also some very concrete measures that will change the situation considerably.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, would you like to complete your response? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. At the 13th and 14th meetings of the National Assembly, Members of the Bevk Group, Boštjan Zagorac and Srečko Friends asked questions of their Members to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, and to the Minister for Transport, Mag. Janez Christmas. As the ministers were not present, the Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. Minister of Transport, mag. Janez Bozič is also absent today, so he will answer the question of Member Happy Friends at the next meeting. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, will first answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about the situation of Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. So, even though we have a Slovenian office in our country around the world that deals formally and technically with Slovenian minorities in all the details in neighbouring countries, our ministry is constantly active when it comes to caring for Slovenians in substitution. Taking care of Slovenians in place is, nevertheless, an integral part of Slovenian foreign policy. Well, in all possible contacts between bilateral, multilateral and bilateral frameworks, we are consistently committed to ensuring that neighbouring countries respect the commitments made in the area of minority protection. Let me say that in our ministry we are closely monitoring developments related to the situation of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška, and we are having a regular dialogue on the issue of the Slovenian minority in Koroška, but I must say in particular with the Austrian federal authorities. The involvement in public controversy with the country’s chief Haider does not seem productive to us, and we certainly would not want to contribute to the pre-election competition that is taking place in these weeks, these months in the neighbouring country. Notwithstanding the complications and provocations at the country level, we expect the Austrian authorities to take appropriate implementing measures, within the framework of their domestic legal and international obligations, to put forward further bilingual local inscriptions in order to implement the decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court, both in 2001 and 2005. In this respect, we like the statements made by the highest political representatives and the legal authorities of the Austrian State, which underline the importance of respect for and implementation of the Constitutional Court rulings and reject the possibility, which is particularly important, of deciding the majority of the rights of the minority population. You are asking about Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty. We will continue to pursue consistently the realization of all rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria, which are based on this Article. Notwithstanding the different positions on the question of Slovenia's formal and legal status in the Austrian State Treaty, it is essential that Austria recognises that the Austrian State Treaty and its Article 7 constitute an indisputable international obligation of Austria, which Austria is obliged to respect. It is essential that Slovenia is the legitimate protector of the Slovenian minority and its rights in Austria and in Styria, and Austria recognises this. And most of all, I'd say a delicate part of your question or answer. Our ministry has reviewed and consulted several times in recent years on the usefulness of notifying the accession to the Austrian State Treaty. After a thorough assessment and diplomatic consultations, this step has not yet been decided. I ask you, Member, to understand that we do not wish to make public the reasons and arguments for such a decision. However, we ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs closely monitors the issue you have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I'd have a follow-up to the question. In view of my question two months ago, it was aimed at slightly correcting the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of Slovenian foreign policy and focusing more on problems with neighbouring countries and resolving open issues, especially in relation to the problems faced by the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. One part of my question has already been answered by Mr Rupel, Minister, in particular with regard to the problems in Koroška in Austria, and I also asked in my question of January this year how the Republic of Slovenia will support the implementation of the Slovenian minority protection law in Italy, which has only been written on paper since 2001. I also asked about the non-implementation of the contract between Slovenia and Hungary with regard to the financing of the Slovenian National Community in Hungary, which is also ten times smaller than the funds that the Republic of Slovenia provides for the financing of the activities of the Hungarian National Community in Slovenia, and of course also the problem of the Slovenian Community in Croatia, as we know that a few years ago the Slovenian National Minority was deleted from the Croatian Constitution. I think that, in 2006 and 2007, during the OSCE Presidency last year and the future Presidency of the European Union, it is now primarily the task of focusing on these relations with neighbouring countries and with the problems of the national Slovenian community in neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor. On the priority of Slovenian foreign policy, we have already spoken on the Committee on Foreign Policy several times, even in the plenary, of course, this debate will be on the agenda tomorrow, if I am well aware, and then we can say more. Otherwise, you are right to say that it is necessary to devote intense attention to the situation of Slovenians in neighbouring countries, there is no doubt about it, I have already said this in my first reply. Of course, you need to know that in the work of these problems the MZZ is not competent, but is the competent Office for Slovenians around the world, but it is understood that the issue of Slovenians in neighbouring countries is, nevertheless, our common concern and the concern of the government, the concern of our ministry. As far as priorities are concerned, you yourself have said that we are particularly interested in the European Union and that we are already in the middle of preparing for the presidency in early 2008 to be in the middle of constitutional debates and so on. Thank you for mentioning the protection law in Italy. This is a problem that I myself have been dealing with for almost all these years, many of us have been dealing with it, and I hope to say that I have also contributed to the adoption of this law in 2001. Well, let me say there have been some interventions in the last few days. I am thinking mainly of the letter that our Prime Minister wrote to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy. Here I am referring to their meeting at the edge of a meeting in Brussels or Belgium, and here I am thinking of our position, which we have also formulated in this same direction, namely that we are afraid that another opportunity will be missed to finally get rid of this issue from the agenda. Well, we have some assurance that this may however turn in the right direction. This is a problem that is also related to the pre-election campaign and the interests that cross and fight in these weeks before the elections. With regard to the non-implementation of the reciprocity agreement with Hungary, you probably know that I was the one who signed this contract, and of course I insist on what was signed, and I spoke to my Hungarian colleague about this several times, last but a few weeks ago. As far as Croatia is concerned, I think the Slovenians will probably be able or that the Slovenians will return to this constitution, so the Croatian authorities provide us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mr Minister also owes an answer to the question of Member Boštjan Zagorec concerning the removal of bilingual inscriptions in Austria. Dr. Rupel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. First of all, I have to apologize to my colleague for internal affairs for using his microphone. Otherwise, I will say something about the question of Member of the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He asks me about the events in Austria. Of course, I can say again that our ministry and ourselves are closely monitoring developments that are related to the situation of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška. These developments are complex, and the most known dimension of them is the one related to bilingual local inscriptions. Personally, I must say, I am very surprised that Slovenia, which is the official language of the European Union, is a problem in neighbouring Austria, which is also a member of the European Union as well as Slovenia. This has to be some kind of phase retardation or some kind of backlog that'll probably clear up time. At the same time, it also gets rid of our activity and, after all, with political activity in the neighbouring country of Austria. Once again, I would not like to use this microphone and this Parliament to deal with the country's or local authorities in Koroška, because this could probably be good for anyone. I would say, however, that in Austrian politics today there is much controversy and much debate on the subject of bilingual inscriptions, on the subject of respect for the rulings of the Constitutional Court, and if I am not wrong, I would say that these discussions are increasingly leaning in the direction that we like in this Parliament or in the Slovenian government. I think things change for the better when it comes to the Austrian political climate. The fact is also that today, in Austria, even in Koroška, more people enter the Slovenian learning programmes, that today more people than ever learn Slovenian and that Slovenian is actually becoming a useful, not only official, but a useful, commercially useful language for solving everyday problems and interests, and thus this policy, which I have labeled as local and, of course, negative, can no longer actually have a significant impact on these positive processes, which can make us happy. Despite all these complications and provocations, we expect the Austrian authorities to be, due to their international obligations, due to their domestic legal obligations, after all, to take the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I have already mentioned, appropriate implementing measures for the establishment of local inscriptions and so on. Slovenia has a regular dialogue with the Austrian authorities, promoting the exercise of all rights arising from Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty and the enforcement of the judgments of the Austrian Constitutional Court. Let me mention that our Embassy in Vienna is particularly active in this regard, which is continuously engaged in dialogue and talks with Austrian inter alia in the Office of the Federal Chancellor, here of course I am referring to his initiative to discuss in the Conference of Consensus. I am referring here to the talks of the Federal President's office, which is particularly favourable to the Slovenians, I am thinking of the Federal Foreign Ministry here, of course. Solving the question of bilingual inscriptions is, I would say, an unstoppable process where the change in the atmosphere in Koroška is important. I think that the coalition to change this atmosphere is being established, I think in the Austrian public there is a coalition of those who oppose the conduct of the country's authorities and call for respect for the rights of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška and, in particular, to regulate the issue of bilingual inscriptions. Here I have an article that came out today, which is, to say the least, proof of what I'm saying. The Koros and the Austrian constitutional lawyers themselves are very critical of the situation in Koroška and express themselves as critical as I should not be expressing myself at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Dearly represented, thank you also for your reply, Mr Minister, with whom I am not entirely satisfied. Finally, you mentioned that it was local politics. You know, I don't care what kind of policy this is. It's about people, it's about the Slovenians who live there, not politics. And you know, it's not just local inscriptions. Other things happen. The Slovenian government remains gone. For example, before the prestigious work of Maribor appears in one prestigious house, to a newly renovated, newly decorated, a so-called culture society of German-speaking women appears, which is not even so strange in its own way, it is more strange that the entire purchase of this building and interior equipment was financed by the Cororian Land Government, which I am sure we know who its leader is. And is it not possible, in this case, that Mr Haider is already in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia as well? And within this building works, among other things, not once a week, but every day one language society, whose name here does not want to say out loud, but you know, its operating conditions, despite inviting the instruction of the German Slovene in Slovenian, have its operating conditions fully published in German. It is very interesting for someone who is learning German, that he has to read the conditions of his business and how he operates such a society, even before he can speak German at all. And one of the founders of this society was also a prominent Maribor lawyer who justified his practice by walking through the Maribor cemetery, collecting German names and then informing his relatives abroad that they were denationalising beneficiaries. I am afraid that this lack of government is primarily due to the fact that you or the government has a political sympathizer in the current Austrian government, which you know is going to be held in elections and that if Mr Haider is not given a mandate on them, his active political career may also be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	So, I do not believe, honourable Member, that we will have a negative impact on the political careers of this House in this case that you are referring to. I think that by stressing the importance of a person or a party on the outside of the borders they could benefit those persons or those parties more than harm them, and I think you probably don't want that. As for the matters mentioned in Maribor, this does not now fall within foreign policy, you will probably agree. And one more thing I would say is that we are with the citizens of Austria, with the citizens of the neighbouring countries of Austria, Italy, Hungarian friends and allies, we are together members of the European Union, the European Union is that mechanism, I think, one of the happiest in the history of Europe, the happiest mechanisms to overcome, so to speak, the historical traumas and contradictions, hatred, conflicts and so on. We are allies, we are friends, we will not even fight in wars, we will not have any serious conflicts, I would say if we are members of the European Union, and ultimately this is why Slovenia has become a member of the European Union. I would not like to comment on developments in a building in a city in Slovenia. If there is anything illegal there, it is a question of other colleagues or, after all, of this Parliament, and I am sure that these colleagues will do your interests and duties in this regard very wisely. However, as regards the German-speaking people of the community, the groups in Slovenia, I would like to remind you that, by means of the Constitution, the rights guaranteed, as cultural groups or communities, are eligible for funding in our legislation, and there is nothing wrong in this regard, if representatives of such or other cultural communities want to exercise their rights, so to speak, cultural rights, should probably not be hampered by them, thus putting themselves in the same line as those who want, or even in a worse category, policies that want to impede cultural, linguistic and other rights. German and Slovenian, after all, today, when we are in the European Union, are equal languages and enjoy the same position in the bodies of the European Union. You can be sure of that every time you visit European institutions. For the first time in history, a respected colleague, since 2004 the European Union has been communicating with Slovenians in Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you. You want to propose a discussion on the answer. Here you go, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. My intention was not to do so, but these last words have led me once again, procedurally in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, to suggest that this issue and your appearance here are a broader debate, especially because of the absolute visibility of the Austrians from your last three minutes, it is absolutely clear that in the interests of this government and your foreign ministry, the Austrians are particularly Austrians, we are in very good relations with the Austrians, the Austrians are our friends. Above all, this latest move by Haider and the other Austrian public, which has done absolutely nothing, shows what reciprocity is like. It's a strange way to show friendship, Mr. Secretary. Maybe you're friends with someone or I'm friends with someone, but Austria as a country, believe me, in a very strange way shows this unity of the European Union in a really strange way. And this view, which you have just said, has encouraged me to make a broader debate about this and finally protect the Slovenians in Austria, both from them and from those who praise Austria here at home and proclaim a great friendship between Slovenia and Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Zagorec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The Honourable Minister and the Representative of Ministers. My question to Dr. Andre Bajuk is, of course, about the situation in agriculture, which is not in itself pink. Spring is the time of sowing, when we need the most resources in agriculture, especially for the purchase of fertilisers and seeds, and not least, good harvesting depends on good sowing, and that is what we are doing. Of course, all these things are not without money, and in Slovenia these funds, which are intended for agriculture, in recent months and in fact in the last year they are also abnormally late. And I am sure that, of course, because at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition in all the story, they do not have free but not decisive deadlines, and therefore I ask you from this city with this question to help them and, if necessary, to put in place appropriate controls that will help to accelerate in this area. What's this all about? The main reason is that subsidies, which are about half of the income, do not come regularly in many smaller Slovenian farms, but they would be needed urgently, and we also need an agency for which a popular term has been given that it is an ATM. Obviously, this ATM does not work as it should, so, of course, as a finance minister, I ask you what you intend to do at the Ministry, that due to the late payment of these subsidies, farmers will not be burdened with their basic activities, that, of course, because they will receive subsidies in 2006 instead of in 2005, for which they are paid, they will not be deprived of their income, a number of farmers will fall into a higher tax class, and therefore, of course, they will not owe the country any higher income, and there is much that we know that the scale in this area is progressive. And, of course, the interesting question is also: "Is the Ministry of Finance and the State of Slovenia intending to pay farmers late interest on these funds they have not received, and have you done any analysis of which part of the farmers receive this advance and what will then be the situation when the deposit returns to farmers, of course, farmers for less money with less resources, and on the other hand the country with theirs, I will say, the deposit is only subsidised and credited in some way?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Thank you very much for your question. The Income Act, which was adopted as early as May 2004, also began to include payments under agricultural policy measures among the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Previously, the tax base for this activity was only cadastral income, from which all the time, in accordance with the system for all amounts exceeding a certain threshold, calculated and paid an advance on income. The income adjustment system is an essential element of the integrated income system, under which income increments are paid during the year and the final annual tax obligation is calculated on the basis of an annual forecast involving all tax resources in each year. Without such a system, the State would face the fiscal problem of falling in tax revenue on the one hand and, on the other hand, the taxpayers would have to pay the tax liability in full in a single amount, which would represent a considerable financial burden for most of the taxpayers. During the year all countries with an integrated income system and, in contrast to your claim, their income payments are also paid by farmers. In the Income Act, which is now in force, it is precisely to take into account the fact that our farms are small in income from basic agricultural activities that the amount of the premiums and income thresholds under which the deposit is not paid specifically, namely Article 123 of the Income Act 1 provides that the deposit from the cadastral income is paid only when the amount of the cadastral income per debtor exceeds 10% of the average salary for the previous year. However, the deposit on other income from basic agricultural and forestry activities is limited to individual income, which exceeds SIT 50 000. The last amendment of the law has also resulted in a percentage of the deposit, that is to say, which is now in force since 1.1.2006, a percentage of the income advance previously fixed at 16% and already exceptionally lower than for other types of income has decreased to 10%. A complete abolition of the income withdrawal from both the system's perspective and the interest of the debtors in our assessment is not appropriate. According to the available data, there are fewer than 5 thousand of those who are committed to income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, totalling more than 505 thousand, to which this income represents the only source. According to data for 2003, when subsidies were not yet counted among the incomes, there were also around 7 and a half percent of those who had income from basic agricultural activities below the general benefit. Therefore, by abolishing the withdrawal of income, the majority of the taxpayers should pay the income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. With regard to the delay in the issuance of decisions and the payment of direct payments, in particular income payments, to which the share of inclusion in the tax base is gradually increasing by 2008, we believe from the tenders in 2005 in 2006 that the way in which the tax base of each year is integrated is clearly set out in Article 15 and applies uniformly to all revenue. Thus, the income of a natural person who was acquired or achieved in a tax year equal to that of the calendar year is taxed on income. Other types of income may also result in a delay in payment, but it is not possible to interpret the provision differently for individual cases. Exceptionally, a transitional solution was adopted by amending the Income Act at the end of 2005 for direct payments from 2004 and departing from the current system of taxation. It was therefore pointed out at that time that direct payments should be paid as much as possible in accordance with the year of the invitation to tender. From a systemic point of view, there is therefore no provision for one specific measure in terms of payment of interest. With regard to the last question of how individual undertakings in the farm are recognised as income from direct payments belonging to the whole farm, I must clarify that the Income Act 1 contains a solution whereby such incomes are credited to all taxpayers for income from the cadastral income in the household and to, in proportion to the number of debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The answer, of course, was very comprehensive, very professional, but I doubt that those who are watching us on TV right now are looking forward to the money that will enable them to buy seeds, to buy fertilizers and to invest in agriculture, so that they can figure out when they will get their hard-earned and expected money from this answer. For if we talk about this money in June, when harvesting is already under way in Slovenia in the earliest parts of Slovenia, then there will be many things left for the good harvest in this country. I would also like to know if the agency is an ATM and this ATM obviously does not work, as it should be, whether you are planning any review of this body to give it any acceleration or specific guidance for a better job? In addition, I am also interested in this story, because these controls of the Ministry of Finance would be extremely necessary and effective in other areas as well. Today I went three times, four times a brother an article in Nedelu, on the 6th day, because apparently the supervision of the Ministry of Finance is also necessary in our exhibition of the Ljubljana Bank in Frankfurt and, earlier, the review of the New Ljubljana Bank in Ljubljana. And I'm wondering now, will you, as the Ministry of Finance, undertake all these checks? And I also point to the duality of the country, which, on the one hand, requires taxpayers and farmers to recover payment immediately if they are owed to it, otherwise, where the State is in debt to farmers, the proceedings are, in my opinion, inadvertently prolonged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Just a few extras. Well, as far as the Agency is concerned, I can tell you that the European Court of Auditors is currently in this agency, concerning these payments, so that all decisions will be issued by Friday and payments will be made within the next five days. As for your comment on the supervision of the Ministry of Finance in the banking system, I must tell you that this is the work of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontič, there is no Minister of Transport because he is detained for other urgent matters. Do you still want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although Minister Bozič is not here, in Parliament, and I hope that he will be here with us before Christmas, I will ask him an oral question, especially because I have also asked some written questions and initiatives, and he will have to answer these questions anyway. The oral question concerns a very problematic section of the road, this is mentioned several times in this National Assembly section of Arja Vas-Velanje. In the 2006 budget, we have adopted an amendment aimed at rebuilding this road with an additional 150 million tolars, allowing for interventions on this road, but it is true that these funds were unforeseeable and that the Roads Directorate has not prepared or prepared projects at this level, and at the same time the Municipality of Velenje, where a part of this road is being carried out, has prepared or prepared several projects already. I want to know: When and how will the Roads Directorate approach the rehabilitation of this road or, as it says, the most attractive not to say black spots on this road? In doing so, I would like to point out in particular the parts where the locals have been warning for several years that it is necessary to make a traffic light or perhaps otherwise to arrange pedestrian crossings, these are two, and the most important change that should have taken place on this road is the winding strip for the village of Lipje. So, I expect the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly to give me an oral answer to the question of when and how the Ministry and, consequently, the Roads Directorate will approach the modernisation or elimination of the dangerous sections of this Arja Vas-Velenje road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Would you like the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting? [[Yeah.]] Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will next ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food an initiative to regulate betting in horse racing. Attitudes are practically the world's main financial source for breeding and competition with horses, especially butchers and gallopers. In all cash registers developed countries, where virtually all European Union countries belong, horse betting is the basic material basis for breeding butchers, construction and maintenance of competition facilities, anti-doping control as well as competitions. According to research by developed European Union countries in the field of cassation, 1 in 8 horses brings one job. The horserace can, by means of the Law on Horse Bets, make a substantial contribution and bring substantial gains in the field of agriculture and the economy. Horses can be arranged on areas where today's Slovenian agriculture is only difficult to keep on its feet, that's on growing surfaces, on areas that are not suitable for machine processing and so on. In our situation, the development of cassation by means of horse betting in a few years would help to process agricultural areas for the production of horse feed in the size of 10,000 to 12,000 hectares. It would also bring about 600 direct new jobs, and much more directly. In particular, many young, students and students are involved in the work of horses. In fact, in the past few years, we have been able to give thanks in particular to breeders, trainers, competitors, owners and sponsors. It is time, however, that, together with the country, there are very well-known basic actions abroad that would accelerate development and give the industry an appropriate meaning. While it is unrealistic to expect that the effects and the extent of the horse's bets would immediately be similar to those of France, for example, where last year more than €4 billion was paid, which would have been converted to our size for Slovenia, amounting to an incredible 35 billion dollars, a significant proportion of which would have returned to the countryside to breeders and a significant share of the state budget. The breed of sports horses in Slovenia will soon die if it is not allowed by law the same conditions as breeders have abroad. The adoption of the relevant law would require appropriate cooperation and support from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Finance, and of course also from members of the National Assembly. This law is without prejudice to the rights and resources of anyone, but it can be very beneficial for horses, agriculture and its competitive capacity in Europe and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, both have five minutes together. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for your question. The fact is that the gambling law also partly regulates sports betting, since it also includes sports betting, which includes betting on horse racing. Sport betting can be permanently organised by Sports Lottery d.d. on the basis of the concession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Ljubljana. Occasionally, once a year, on the basis of the permission of the Minister responsible for finance, the organiser who organises sports competitions in the premises in which the competitions are located may also make bets on these competitions, and this is also happening. In the case of the permanent organisation of classical gambling, the funds paid for the concession awarded, sports forecasts and other sports betting shall be used in a share of 80% to finance the activities of sports organisations and 20% to finance the activities of disabled and humanitarian organisations. However, the financial resources shall be allocated to direct users on the basis of a call for proposals and may also be nominated by organisations engaged in horse sport in so far as they comply with the conditions laid down in such an invitation to tender. The financing of other activities in the current law is not envisaged and any change in the arrangements for horse betting could only be made by amending the gambling law. In the case of the occasional organisation of classical gambling, revenues generated by a 95 % wager are used to finance the activities of the organiser, but there is a restriction in the law in force that only once a year can a sports betting organizer bet and that possible more frequent adjustment can only be regulated by a change of law. With regard to the adjustment of sports betting so far, it is noted that sports lotteries have adjusted horse betting in cassation races over the past years, but the interest and the volume of payments in these races was relatively low, since in 2001 it was a good million tolars, slightly over four million in 2002 and slightly less than three million tolars in 2003, and after paying the concession fee, the organizer was unable to pay its costs. So let me finish. So far, all horse racing operators who have applied for a licence, once a year, have all received a positive response from the Ministry of Finance, and there has been no more interest. The sports lottery, however, has a concession contract that allows horse betting. In recent years, as I have already mentioned, it has also adjusted this and has not had a major financial impact. Therefore, there was no greater interest, however, insofar as the public interest in changing the existing regime for the adaptation of sports betting and financing of horse-fighting activities is expressed, the Ministry of Finance, and I am sure, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry Food and the organisation of sports betting, will take part in the preparation of a proposal for amendments and the addition of this law on gambling, namely, other provisions relating to the adaptation of sports betting and the financing of concession fee. We have not yet received such information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you. You wish to complete your reply, Mr Member. Oh, yes, please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. As has already been said, the position in the European Union horse competitions is governed by financial rules and only by the implementation of zoo techniques rules, which set out the basic criteria for the organisation of cassation competitions, participation in competitions for horses, competitors, trainers, judges, the way of monitoring data from competitions and the way in which competitions are reported. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already arranged the following tasks in the area of cassation competitions, the Association of Associations of Cassacean Central Slovenia has been issued a decision on approval as competent organisations for cassacea competitions, we have issued a decision of the breed organisation for the management of breeding books for cashiers, we have appointed a special committee to compete with equidae on the basis of Article 7 of the Rules on the conditions for the participation of equidae in competitions and the collection of data from equidae competitions, we also report to the Commission in Brussels on the annual programme of competitions with cashiers. The Ministry has therefore arranged everything necessary to include bets in the system of cassation competitions in these competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? No, no, no. Next, Dr Pavel Gantar will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. We continue the story of the gas terminal in the Gulf of Markets. I asked you, Minister, do you remember, a question you answered in writing. In this reply, you also stated that the Italian Ambassador claimed to you that it was a project, that it was just an entrepreneurial idea, without any official status. A few days later, however, it turned out that there was no idea that the matter had already progressed significantly, but that it was a project officially supported by the Government of Furlania-Julia and was worth EUR 800 million, in which there was also a 10% share of the Financier Friuli, the majority of which is owned by the Italian Illy Land Administration. According to Italian investors, the construction of this terminal, whose main part is almost 300 metres long platform, is expected to take place next year. In short, it's not some idea in the air. Since the Ministry is responsible for the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act, which summarises several directives of the European Union, by which Italy should inform Slovenia long ago, and at the latest when it has informed its public of the planned intervention to the premises and also provides it with all the necessary documentation to decide on cooperation in the process of comprehensive impact assessment and implementation of plans and the environment. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: When and on what basis did you learn about the planned construction of the market bay gas terminal? Can you, to me and others, chronologically present to me all the procedures that the Ministry of Environment and Space has carried out from this point forward? According to our data, the project was officially presented to the country authorities for the first time on 6 February. The public debate ended on 10 March. Have the competent authorities of the Republic of Italy already formally requested the necessary documentation, in accordance with Article 45 of the Environmental Protection Act and the Environmental Report, and when did you do so? Have you already received any response from the competent authorities, and when can we expect you to receive this required documentation? After all, I would even like to warn you that in Italy, in Rome, the Slovenian Embassy, we have a consulate in Trieste and I am also interested: When these authorities monitor the events, of course, in the neighbouring country, are they involved in sending you any messages, informing you about them, or not interested in them, and not dealing with them? This is a project which assesses the impact on the Slovenian environment and the sea and therefore requires the funds to be made available as soon as possible and requires Italy to do what the common European legal order imposes on it in the field of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you so much for asking, Dr. Gantar. Indeed, in part I have already answered this question in writing in the context of the conduct I had on the day you received the question in the context of the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space. First of all, I would like to tell you in principle that, as Minister and together with our co-workers at the Ministry, we are very careful and proactively monitoring developments in the Italian part of the Gulf of Trža, which are related to the intention of investors to build a gas terminal. The General Consulate in Trieste actively participates in this process. Right now or before, today is Monday, I've received some of their additional views, some information that I can say here. The same applies to the Slovenian Embassy in Rome. In just one word, I am sure that we are all here in a united opinion that the Gulf of Markets is an extremely sensitive marine ecosystem. And in order to maintain a good ecological state, there is a need for the active participation of coastal countries in development planning. I would also like to assure, not only you, honourable Member, but also all those who are rightly concerned about this investment, this is also true of a number of NGOs that have grown stronger on this issue and have a proactive attitude that they can count on me, as Minister, in a consistent, responsible and professional manner, to represent Slovenia's interests in this matter. Two international legal arguments. The obligation to provide information on the construction of installations that have a cross-border impact on the environment stems not only from the Convention on the assessment of cross-border impacts on the environment and the law of the European Union, and I have used this instrument as a minister, but also from the general principles and rules of international law, international neighbourhood law and international environmental and maritime law. That's the first one. And second. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, of which the Italian Republic is a party, as well as the Republic of Slovenia, is also a special obligation in the maritime area of the Adriatic Sea in relation to the topic under consideration. To your particular question. On 10 March 2006, in an official interview with my initiative, the Italian Ambassador Daniela Verga, I raised some questions with activities in the planning of the new gas terminal. There I also highlighted the importance of the sensitivity of the marine ecosystem in this part of the Adriatic Sea. I have expressed my clear concern that sectoral interventions could have adverse consequences for the marine environment and I have called on the Ambassador to notify the status of the planned project in Italy and I have made it clear that Italy will act in accordance with the European directives on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts and the EEA Convention. As you yourself said in your question, at that time the Italian Ambassador assured me that the project is currently just an entrepreneurial idea without any official status. A few days later, just a few days after this discussion, there was information that absolutely exceeded the Ambassador's information and I immediately stepped in, as it is said, within the framework of the procedure imposed on me by this international convention, into an active position and sent a letter to the Italian Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Matteoli, in which I stressed that both countries, with the signing of the agreement, had also committed themselves to preventing and acting in the event of pollution caused by accidents at sea in Portorož, to inform each other of such interventions to the premises. I also stressed that both countries share the care of the Adriatic Sea. I reminded him that the Slovenian public is upset about the activities related to the planned construction and that we do not yet have information on the official status of the planned project and that we want to get the information on this planned project as soon as possible in accordance with the European Directives on cross-border environmental impact assessments and the EEA Convention. I also drew his attention to the need for formal inclusion, I stress, of the formal involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the environmental impact assessment process before the programme or plan was put into the process or adopted. You also mention the law on environmental protection in your question. In fact, we have also acted on the basis of its provisions, as the law on environmental protection in its articles translates into Slovenian law the European legal order in the field of strategic environmental impact assessment. And now the most up-to-date thing. I haven't officially received an answer to the letter I sent to my Italian colleague. However, I have the following information: on Friday, 24 March, the Government of Furlania-Julia decided to declare the country's interest in participating in the environmental impact assessment process, which must be initiated by the Italian Ministry of the Environment as part of the procedures needed for preparing terminals. I therefore rightly expect Slovenia to participate in this process in accordance with the applicable rules and on the basis of the letter I sent to my Italian colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Completing the question. So, Mr Minister, of course, we both agree with the legal bases which suggest that Slovenia has the right to request cooperation in environmental impact assessment with this important facility which has cross-border environmental impacts, in accordance with at least three European Union directives and harmonised Slovenian environmental legislation. However, the problem is that, in a way, part of this public debate has already ended on 10 March, it is said, on the same day that the Ambassador spoke of this as just an idea. The problem is, and this is a question that I'm interested in: Do you think that Italy has already violated the European acquis because Slovenia has not notified this intervention and has not allowed it to enter the environmental impact assessment process? Of course I'm interested: Whether the Ministry of the Environment or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already has a scenario in place if Italy wants to insist on the position - and I hope it will not - that it does not need the consent of Slovenia, as, for example, Minister of Energy Ludovico Sonej said [[Quote]] that "this is an infrastructure facility that will stand in Italian territorial waters, and this is an important fact." In short, I want to know: Is Italy already in breach of these Directives and do you also have an alternative plan and a scenario of action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Part of the question also concerns certain other government departments, in particular those obliged to fully engage with the Republic of Italy. However, I must say that we have here proper working contacts both with my colleagues at the Ministry of Transport and with some others. I cannot imagine that the neighbouring Republic of Italy would fail to comply with the provisions applicable under the Convention on the assessment of cross-border impacts on the environment and on European Union law. As Minister of Environment and Space, I expect that Italian counterpart Matteoli will take advantage of the formal procedure he has, and that now, especially with the fact that it is formally on Friday, I stress, only on Friday, according to the data we have, the Government of Furlania-Julia, which is obviously responsible for this, will decide to declare the country's interest in participating in the environmental impact assessment process so that Comrade Matteoli will react immediately and, in the context of the procedures under the conventions and other legal acts, allow the Republic of Slovenia to participate professionally and substantively in the environmental impact assessment. That's the first one. Second. From the data I have, there's something else. That, on the basis of this decision, or the government of the State Ministry of the Environment and the premises of the Republic of Italy, a special Commission for the Environment will be set up and that it will then formally initiate the procedure, apparently new, I do not know how it will invite the administrations again, in this case of course the Italian municipalities, but at the same time I am convinced by the procedure that is also in force through this international convention, Slovenia to participate in the environmental impact assessment. I think that my letter to my Italian colleague also contributed to the fact that the procedures in the neighbouring Republic of Italy have nevertheless begun to be carried out as provided for in the international conventions. I would like to believe and expect the Republic of Italy to act European in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thanks for the answer. The following question will be raised by Mr Dušen Kumer, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. In recent weeks, the idea of proposing amendments to the Police Act has come to light in public, and this proposal is to be in government interdepartmental coordination at the moment, and the already adopted government proposal on amendments to the CoE Act. In both cases, it is a matter of extending powers to the police and security authorities. In the first case, it is intended to extend the power to target the collection of data on citizens who, by their conduct and activities, raise reasonable grounds for suspecting that they are threatening public security. In the second case, the amendment of the CoE Act is also a matter of amending the provisions governing the use of specific forms of data acquisition in order to allow this amendment to be implemented over a longer period. The announced increased powers of the police and the Soviet Union in the use of secret operating methods, among others, of the greatly increased control mechanisms of the current authorities, which are established daily in many, besides economic and social life, lead to the conclusion that the tasks of the security system are increasingly being used to protect the power elite. Sound income in recent weeks has also stimulated debates on their freaks, and some believe that it is an exclusive or major fault in existing legislation. I believe it is very dangerous, for example, to use Plut as a basis for amending legislation. It is even more dangerous if the Schengen Convention is misused to introduce additional secret police powers, whereby police, without judicial supervision, could secretly monitor and collect personal data on individuals for whom it would find themselves without clear criteria to pose a threat to the country and its inhabitants. That's why I'm asking Minister Dragutin Matthew: What and what reasons did the Ministry or the police have to draw up such a proposal for amendments, who and on what criteria will decide which citizens of Slovenia are entering the Schengen Information System? And also to the Minister, Dr. Lovra Sturm, I ask: What reasons and experiences have led the Ministry of Justice so far to propose a change in the duration of the use of specific forms of data collection regarding the control of letters and other shipments and the monitoring and recording of telecommunications in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you. He's going to answer, and now I'm going to ask which minister first. Dr. Storm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Thank you also for the question raised, honourable Member. The terrorist attacks and activities, which constitute a serious attack on the common goals and values of democracy, freedom and human dignity, require individual countries and the international community to respond appropriately in order to ensure peace and security in each country and in the international community and to ensure respect for human rights. Thus, a good month after the terrorist attack on New York and Washington on 11 September 2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopted on 12 October 2001 a declaration on a joint fight against terrorism, reacted accordingly. The Declaration on the Common Fight against Terrorism, inter alia, in point 2, provides that the National Assembly shall join the determinations of the international community in a single and common fight against terrorism which threatens both the individual and the world. The National Assembly supports the positions and actions of the European Union and NATO and calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fully implement all relevant resolutions. At the same time, the third point of the declaration states that the National Assembly expresses our country's readiness to actively participate in the counter-terrorism coalition and commits its competent labour bodies to closely monitor developments and to respond to the Government's initiatives to combat terrorism together. The National Assembly calls on the government to join the actions of the European Union and NATO in a joint fight against terrorism. One of the most important bodies involved in counter-terrorism activities in the Republic of Slovenia is the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. The Agency has an extremely limited set of tools to deal with the threat of terrorism or to participate in the actions of the European Union and NATO against terrorism. Most members of the European Union are under pressure from indirect or direct terrorist threats to increase the scope of possible incursions, state attacks on the privacy of individuals. If the Republic of Slovenia actually wants to participate in a joint fight against terrorism, it is the opinion of the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of Justice to amend the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency law by ensuring that specific forms of data are used in the field of data acquisition that are comparable to those in other countries that jointly engage in the fight against terrorism as a global phenomenon. The proposed amendment is therefore a law on the Slovenian Intelligence Security Agency, which amends the current regulation of the use of specific forms of data acquisition comparable to other countries in the European Union in order to ensure a uniform standard of security in individual countries in the wider international area. The arrangements in comparable countries are shown in the draft law. The current regulation in the Act on the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency allows the use of specific forms of data acquisition relating to the control of letters and other shipments and the monitoring and recording of telecommunications over a continuous period of up to six months. For a long time, the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency has been pointing out the shortcomings of the current regime. The Agency also noted the shortcomings of the current regulation in the evaluation report, which assessed the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to combat international terrorism. The Agency shall deal with the terrorist and anti-intelligence segments of its work with an activity carried out by an individual during a longer period of time, with a significant proportion of the time spent covering activities or integrating into the environment, liaising with the environment and gaining the trust of individuals who could be used to obtain data or to join the cooperative network. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Please, if you finish. I hereby inform you that you have exceeded your time and that I cannot give Minister Mat a word of reply. But I'm asking Ambassador Kumra a supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Now I'm in a bit of an awkward situation because Minister Mate hasn't answered one question, but I'm going to take advantage of it, and I'm going to say that it's clearly coming from this implementation for some new security paradigm that can also mean security exaggeration. Indeed, it is not true that the changes are the prides of the European Union and Schengen. The Republic of Slovenia aligned its legal order in the field of justice and home affairs in 2002 and 2003 and was then demonstrated by the successful conclusion of the negotiations in this chapter. At that time we also introduced guidance for data collection, but under very restrictive conditions, different from what is proposed now. The focused collection of powers without judicial supervision is a reminder of some historical novels from other times. And the Law on Owl. The very explanation in the SOCI Act states that it is not a European directive, that it is a regulation that we can regulate nationally, that is a recommendation. And there is absolutely no need to adapt the assessments we receive from the SOVE from the security assessments. So once again, I ask: What are those reasons that in some ways prevent citizens from breathing to the police for a collar, just like the police are breathing to us? And I'd like to hear: What conditions must be met for reasonable suspicion that a person will commit a crime and that data should be collected in a confidential manner? Indeed, this is not evident in the draft law or in the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you. Complementary response, Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, I'm very glad you added those words that you added at the end. The claim you have made that Slovenia has implemented all its promises to the European Union already in 2002 is not true. It's very simple. In reviewing the legislation and harmonisation of our legislation, which took place from 25.2. to 4.3.1999, it was precisely established that Slovenian legislation does not allow the implementation of Article 99 of the Schengen Convention. Slovenia, at its negotiating points held in 1999, said - and gave such orders to its diplomats - that this area is not subject to a transitional period and not an exception, and promised to implement this legal area into its legislation by 31.12.2002 at the latest. Further on, she promised that by 30.6. time later they would make such a law that would allow it. It wasn't done. And, of course, if Slovenia is to enter the Schengen area, it must implement Article 99 of the Schengen Convention in its legal order. With this article, we will be obliged to enter data into the so-called Schengen Information System for all those persons who are connected in a specific database with Article 99; there are several other articles and for all others, the Slovenian Police have the authority to do so and not. We have therefore drawn up a proposal to amend the law on police, allowing the police to record and enter data in accordance with all the restrictions contained in Article 99. There's been a lot of talk about the secret operation, the secret observation, and I don't know what else. Article 99 and implementation into our legal order does not mean, I stress, that it does not mean a different form of work in disguised investigation measures. This will continue to be carried out in Slovenia only in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, more specifically Article 149a, where secret observation is defined. For the word used in Article 99 of the Schengen Convention, the word secretly means that the persons in respect of whom particular information is recorded and entered into the system are not aware of why this information is taken, and that is the only reason. So we're practically trying to reconcile that last part now. I must say that the law is also in the working material phase, it is inter-resorted, coordination is very intensive, so that the law is not at any stage of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and has not yet been confirmed in any way to be prepared for further procedure. At this stage, we will coordinate some more details so that the marriage can go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you. Comrade Kumer, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	I would take this opportunity to propose that, in accordance with Article 246(2), the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on the response of both ministers. I would like to add that Article 99 of the Convention - and I have tried to ask a question earlier, and if I have the opportunity to do so, I will put it on the table at the time of the debate in the National Assembly - two matters. One is for those who are already foreign citizens in the Schengen Information System. It is also another question that opens up, on which criteria and who will decide with us which of our citizens will go into this Schengen information system. Of course, as it is in this draft, which is in inter-departmental coordination, it is clear that the police or the ministry in the closed circuit will do so alone. And here is the question, namely, at least what is it that this control or this bias of thought is taken and placed under the control of justice or the prosecution. Because, I pointed out earlier, this regulation should therefore have, in addition to implementing this Article 99, also a so-called supervisory function, who will supervise the application of these covert police measures. Therefore, once again, I propose that the National Assembly clarify this because it is an important matter which, after all, directly interferes with fundamental human rights, which are protected by constitutional Articles 36, 37, 38 and cannot be left only to a body which is part of a ministry, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, within the framework of the voting point. We're moving on. Dr Slavko Gaber, who will raise his question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Zupan, is next on the list of notified Members who raise the issue to the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister! In the context of social and economic reforms adopted by the Government last November on the information society, there is virtually no speech. Only concepts such as information systems, information base, information support and an informational open model can be found. Together, our experts listed 12 of these hits. With regard to information, this key development document of your government, Mr Minister, speaks only about the informationisation of the courts. Unlike our government, they devote a lot of attention to other countries and the European Union to this area. Since I have an impression that it's not just my impression that we're late in this area, I'm asking you: How specifically your Ministry implements the Republic of Slovenia strategy in an information society adopted in 2003, in my opinion as an appropriate framework for responding in accordance with the E-Europe 2003 Plus Action Plan. At the same time, I wonder: How are preparations for the revision of this strategy taking place as it will expire this year? What has your ministry done so far with regard to the drafting of a new document? And, let me ask you this, because I suppose you are directing this on your own, in which areas do you, Mr. Minister, see the fundamental key points that need to be breached in Slovenia if we really need to turn into an information society? Which of the European Union's priorities in this area do you think are also crucial to Slovenia, and what is your opinion on the joint report of the three Commissioners on the broad bandwidths presented last week in Brussels?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Your Honor, Mr. Ambassador, Dr. Gaber. Thank you so much for asking. Your question was: "What has our government done in the field of information society and specifically was the question of what has it done to implement the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the information society?" I have a document, of course, this is a strategy for the Republic of Slovenia on an information society, which we believe is okay, that of course it is in line with what Slovenia wants and wants and wants. But the fact is that, of course, our government has, before in the coalition contract, only slightly mixed things up, to say the least, and, of course, focused in a certain way, I will talk about it. If I focus on your question, I think it is most important that I answer, given this strategy, because you know it and I would not follow the points we have, but I will follow the points outlined in the strategy. The strategy lists 29 sub-targets with nine exact goals and let me go to these nine goals in a row and in a row, because most of the things are happening in our ministry. Of course, it must be said that our ministry coordinates this, but of course there are certain activities at the Ministry of Economy and at the Ministry of Public Administration and, of course, something at the Ministry of Education, so allow me to go straight ahead. But, of course, this is nine activities, and I probably won't have time to go through everything, but I'm going to bring it up quickly just for every major thing we do. The first objective was to increase ICT accessibility, this is information and communication technology, this was related to Arnes and Arnes, of course, has a basic role in this area, it is implemented, in fast internet connections, activities were carried out in 2005 that will contribute to the achievement of long-term objectives and, of course, this number has increased, in short, our skills have risen accordingly. As far as point 1 is concerned, this increase in accessibility to ICT will be seen in others, where the number of points of entry has increased, we have established a national contact point for the European Network Information Security Agency Enis, so that we now have this point trained and traffic is significantly easier. As for the second objective, cooperation between institutes and the ICT economy, we had a call for projects for the dissemination of software based on an open source, we had several other projects, this was 18 projects, and 15 projects were approved for co-financing. As for the third programme, creating the conditions for the creation of ICT companies, we have made all the platforms. From the ICT area, we have NES and NEM, ARTEMIS, etc., in short, our companies have merged and cooperated, and there we have supported this creation of these platforms. Here is the action, which is very important in this sub-target, tax relief, and I can also say in this area that, of course, with the Ministry of Finance, we have introduced 20% tax relief for all investment in research and development and, of course, information and communication technology is also involved. Point four, called ICT in schools, cultural work and interdisciplinaryism, we had virtually the most activities here. If I list just a few, it is said that there are e-books project, e-consuming project, digitisation of NUK, then of course there are e-school networks in Slovenia and so on, all these projects are running, there were calls and these projects are important and we think they are of course quality and we will continue them. As for the project target five, better access to ICT, a call has been made in the past year, this is point five, so of course there is still a whole bunch of these activities, although we can also connect if you want us to give you exactly all of these activities that we have added. If I could just say the final thing about our priorities, that's all. Of course, we do not believe that any substantial revision of this strategy would be necessary, because we think it is right, we need to focus more on certain things. It seems to us, of course, from the point of view of content, because [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll finish if I may. [[...]] I'm sorry, but then I'll be able to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you. Considering there's no desire for extra. Yeah? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear fellow Minister, we're going to give ourselves a chance to explain a little more here in this place. Look, events in this area are happening so fast, it's not too much to say that days are months and it's decades. That is why I am interested in what points you see, because this is the question where it is necessary to have a vision, the points of the necessary breakthrough of Slovenia, where it is necessary to focus, because some basic infrastructure has now been established, it is a question of whether we will go up with others who are looking for new ways. There is a great deal of talk in Europe right now about the speed and value of broadband connections. Slovenia doesn't stand very well here. We both know this, for example, that France managed to make a remarkable breakthrough within a year. We both know that at the Ministry that your fellow Master Zrimšek presented himself a while ago, more precisely in July 2005, project Computer in every home. So I'm wondering: Where do you see the priorities, where do you need to focus specifically, and what about this project? We thought he was good, we were interested in when you would present him in a more concrete form, when in Slovenia, in the form of fixed and mainly portable computers and with access not only in large cities, Slovenia could really live as an information society. If we are too slow in this area, it can be that serious developmental breakthroughs will be nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you. Minister, please respond further.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Very quickly, this project has already been implemented in one phase, relatively smaller, sometimes talking about a project Computer in each home. We're doing this and we're going to give a certain amount of money this year. However, as far as priority is concerned, I think one of the main things is that in this information society we separate infrastructure from content and, of course, in the area of infrastructure, the construction of broadband in non-commercial areas. This seems very important to us, in short, to be dispersed regionally. We're still a little weak here, we know that. But the other part is content. Here we see an extraordinary opportunity for Slovenia, and we are implementing these projects - this is digitisation of cultural content, so to speak, digitisation of NUK, digitisation of RTV Slovenia, digitisation of teaching aids, digitisation of biodiversity, which is extremely important for Slovenia, in short, in all areas, and of course interoperability and interoperability of these individual bases, so that we can combine this so that from a user's point of view it is transparent and that we can use these bases in some system of information society, without those insidious transmission and intermediate problems that make it difficult and actually prevent the usefulness of this information society. So, for us, if I say a word very quickly, an information highway without intermediate stations where, as we call it, a tax on non-compliance is paid. This is our main point, and this means that all schools - I now speak from my point of view - institutes, schools and also later public administrations, hospitals and the like, that is, public institutions associated with interoperable databases serving both our schools and our researchers, both our economy and the public sector, as well as externally. So this is the part where we think it's ours, not say the future, but our basis for the future. So, that's it. I'd say so much about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the Minister of Health mags. You're a freshman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Allow me to begin by using the words that the Prime Minister has already said at the meeting today, which is also the President of your government: they are all the same before the law. At the beginning of this year, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance sent instructions to its regional units for health institutions. The essence of this instruction is that in case a woman decides to use contraception prescribed by her doctor on a white prescription, all follow-up checks, specialist services, laboratory tests and possible treatments should be paid in addition to contraception. In other words, according to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, a woman is treated as a self-payer for all further medical services or visits to a doctor from the date of the decision on contraception for which payment or full payment is required. Although Article 23, paragraph 4, of the Health and Health Insurance Act clearly states that compulsory health insurance provides for payment relating to, but I will quote, women's health care regarding advice on family planning, contraception, pregnancy and childbirth [[End quote]] . Therefore, Minister, I ask, given that we have already addressed to you in the Slovenian National Party Group a written question related to this subject, to which we have not yet received an answer: What is your position on the institution's instructions? Gynecologists who are directly confronted with the fact or dilemma of how to act, according to rather vague instructions or ambiguous instructions on the one hand, or with their ethics and respect for the law on the other hand, also say that the matter is not made of vines. Why, in fact, have you not taken action to date when it comes to an eccentric violation of the law? Last but not least for the will of the institution to determine what is self-paying and what is not, and in the end also a violation of the Constitution. Or do you know that there are cases in the department's instructions, and I will quote once again an oral hormonal contraceptive that is not classified, and we can also treat it as a superstandard. If the first review may still be the burden of compulsory health insurance, further checks or prescription rules shall be self-paid. Minister, I also ask you what is a superstandard contraceptive, since the law does not mention it and once again, what are you going to do about a specific instruction?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you. Minister of Health, Minister Bručan, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for your question. Nice greetings to everyone, including the chairman, of course. The guidance you are now asking is of an operational technical nature and content and is intended as a recommendation to professional workers in the implementation of health services providers that are a right under compulsory health insurance or are implemented for self-payers in accordance with Article 254 of the mandatory health insurance rules. So the instructions were prepared by the insurance professionals. Of course, because of various issues, in particular health service providers, who encounter different situations in the supply of services, which condition the correctness of the accounts of health services and the means of compulsory health insurance. The directive, according to the Ministry of Health, is without prejudice to the rights of insured persons, indicating certain possible cases of clearing services with accounting codes only illustrates and lays down rules for situations of possible entanglement where the right is, for example, a review in compulsory insurance. While material is either a superstandard medicine or an contraceptive, in such cases and in some cases it is not a compulsory health insurance right. I'll explain later. The right to health care in the field of contraception is ensured, as we know from the fourth indent of the first paragraph of Article 23 of the Health and Health Insurance Institute, which provides that the health care of women in relation to counselling in family planning, contraception, pregnancy and childbirth is guaranteed by compulsory health insurance. At the same time, compulsory insurance shall provide prescription medicinal products according to the classification of medicinal products in relation to persons and conditions which include the preceding fourth indent of this Article. According to the classification, if a medicinal product is classified as a positive list with restrictions on the provision that compulsory health insurance covers access to this medicinal product only in cases which do not exclude these restrictions. In the case of contraceptives, this may mean that a value-added medicinal product is paid from mandatory means only to users for whom medical reasons indicate this medicinal product as the only appropriate and cannot be used with conventional contraceptives. Other patients have access to conventional contraceptives and can access the medicinal product with added value via a self-paid so-called white prescription. Here you should also take into account the status of the person who prescribes such a self-payment recipe. The mandatory health insurance rules in Article 254 provide that the insured person does not have the right to reimbursement of treatment, including medicines, if the health services have been provided in a self-paid infirmary. [[...]] In this way, an individual who benefits from health services outside the public health service network does not have the right to cover such services from compulsory health insurance. In doing so, it is assumed that the public health service network and the provision of services covered by compulsory health insurance shall include operators carrying concessions, irrespective of the form of their organisation. This should be a public institution or a private concessionaire. The prescription of the medicinal product on a white self-paid prescription and other healthcare services shall, in so far as they are related to the right covered by the compulsory health insurance obtained by the concessionaire, be covered by compulsory health insurance, and the user in the pharmacy shall pay by personal means. Otherwise, it is in a self-paid infirmary where the user also covers the prescription of the medicine and other health care by private means. The Ministry of Health has examined the issues and case in the District and also in connection with the Constitutional Court decision No. U-I-125/97, which assessed the procedures and rights of insured persons in their application of self-paid ambulances or doctors who do not have concessions and are therefore not included in the public health service providers' network. We note that the content of the circular of the Health Insurance Office of 25.1. did not run contrary to the Constitutional Court decision taken by the institution in subsequent additions adopted in Article 254 of the mandatory health insurance rules, which we, or for which the Minister also gave consent in 1999, gave consent. So much for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thanks for the answer. Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Minister! I really want to know why you're making such a big deal out of this. Now, you've read, I believe that the letter they sent to you at the institution, but obviously something is not working, and you're the first of those who should discover and verify why things don't work the way they should at the institution. In short, it's about control that's missing in this country. At least two documents testify, Minister, that the Ministry of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia requires payment of all further services if a woman chooses to give birth to contraception prescribed on a white prescription or is self-paid. And we're not talking here about services that are done in self-paying offices. It is just that contraception that has fallen out of the qualification to go within the green list, as you say or say. I quoted oral hormonal contraception, which is not classified, can also be considered superstandard. Furthermore, if the first review can still be a burden of compulsory health insurance, further checks or prescription rules are free of charge. I have another document right here in my hands, and if you want, you can look at it. In it, one of the gynaecologist’s letters asked the health insurance office to explain the instructions in more detail. And what is the response of the institution under which Ivan Zorman is signed from the control department that a woman who decides to use contraception that is not a burden of compulsory health insurance must pay for all further services, from laboratory to examinations, etc., even though they go by law in the framework of compulsory health insurance, but must pay, as shown by the letter I have here, also the prescription of this prescription. Minister [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	In fact, I answered in the beginning, now, if you don't understand, I can do it again. But it's actually just a drug called Mirana and it's an contraceptive cartridge, which is then further enriched with hormones. It is essentially a medicine that is prescribed in some exceptional situations where conventional contraception is not appropriate or is contraindicated for such an intervention. This is how it is now possible to understand what is said in this insurance policy, which can also be explained by the text that the insurance company has sent to the regional units of the institution, which I also have before me. So far, we have seen as an unwritten rule that every provision of a self-paying recipe is also a public service. However, we have received substantial arguments from the contractor so that this rule may also have certain exceptions. The insured person shall be treated in a public network where the right of compulsory health insurance is being examined. Self-payment services during regular working hours shall be permitted only if they are directly linked to treatment, which is a right of compulsory health insurance. Such an example is, as an example, also mentioned in this instruction, the production of dental prosthetics with a higher standard and supplementation. This principle could, in certain cases, also be passed on to the calculation of the prescribed white prescription. Since all medicinal products are not listed, a situation may arise when a compulsory insurance right is considered, as I said before, a treatment-related medicinal product is unsorted or only self-paid. Such cases are found in gynaecology and we are talking about hormonal contraception and we are also talking about Mirena. There are also situations in the ruligia, such as erective medication, dermatology, and in some other areas. Therefore, the prescription of a white prescription for a compulsory health insurance service is permissible when the examination is medically indicated. However, the medicine chosen by your doctor cannot be prescribed as a green prescription in these cases, so the medicine is not listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you. Procedurally, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I will also take advantage of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure in particular so that I can explain to the Minister at this time that he has prepared very, very badly for this reply, Minister. In this context it is not only a calm, it is a ring, but it is also about what I quoted earlier, it is an oral hormonal contraceptive, these are contraceptive pills, this is, you nod your head, but look, this is in a letter sent by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to the regional units, and these had to be transmitted to the health institutions. It says here clearly and loudly, so, Minister, don't hold what you said. And I also mentioned that gynecologists do not know how to act in a particular case have turned to additional explanations, and it is also clear from these additional explanations that there are also other contraceptives in this context, not just the Miren ring you are mentioning. I don't know, it's black on the White Minister here, and just because I'm afraid that this matter is going too far and that in this context women's rights and these very important women's rights will be violated, it would make sense to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	Ambassador Žgajner, you have referred to a Rule of Procedure, which means that you want an extensive discussion on this?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	That's what I said, but you didn't listen to me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	I'm sorry. My mistake. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the proposal by Members tomorrow, within the framework of the point of vote. We continue, I give the floor to Ambassador Cyril Testen, and he will raise the question of the Minister of Transport, who is absent. Are you going to do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. It has been more than 20 days since the 6.3.2006 on the state road between Hudajužno and Koritnica in Baska Grap. The workers of the road company have removed the stones and marked that the road is closed and nothing has happened on the road since then. Those who know the area of Baška Grapa, you must know that this is the only road connecting Baska Grapa with Tolmin and other places in the Soča valley and further towards Novi Gorica. The people of Baška Grapa are at Tolmin and other places in the Soča Valley connected with the services, school, health care, mail, community care and various other activities they conduct daily on this road. Since the road is closed and because the only connection to the valley is the railway connection, which has an inappropriate schedule for everyday use and also connections from the railway station in Most na Soča are bad, the uncertainty for the Grapars is very great. Everyone solves problems in his own way, often with violations of traffic jails that can lead to accidents. This traffic sign "closed road" will not be able to save or excuse. In view of the above, Mr. Minister, I ask: When will recovery begin, and has the decision already been made on how to solve the problem, how long will the road through Grapa be closed in your opinion, and would it make sense to think about temporary solutions if they even exist? In view of the great hardship of these people, I expect an oral response at the next meeting, and I would also expect some intermediate written information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you, Member Testen. I believe your expectations will be fulfilled. The next on the list submitted for asking the question of the Member of Parliament is Mr Matjaž Han. The question is addressed to the Minister of Economy. Here you go. Excuse me. I've been misdiagnosed, I'm sorry, it's Milan Friday, Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you. It's not my fault, Matjaž, it's this mess. So, the vice president, I believe you didn't want to do this. The last time I did, I was out of the transmission, but of course not today. I therefore refer the question to Minister Visiak, who has recently been doubling with some media records. In the past year, Mr Minister, in the Ministry of Economy that you run, you announced the merger of all state institutions in the field of promoting economic development into a single public agency, so that entrepreneurship, technological development, tourism, foreign investment was conceived, so it was all in a single institution. I believe that this was then too late, too reckless and too fast to mention a gentleman, then even in the past. the director of the Directorate, Mr Kitanovski, who represented them in public on these proceedings, finally established the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment with a very limited area of work, until now everything is still fine. Despite the fact that we expected such an agency to be a strong institution, which, in addition to its advisory and analytical tasks in the field of entrepreneurship, would be responsible for partially increasing investment in entrepreneurship and the small economy, increasing investment in knowledge and technological development, fostering the internationalisation of enterprises and helping foreign investment, this matter, according to our opinion, has been somewhat "stood up". So, I ask you, what is the purpose of setting up such an agency as the present one, and are you possibly planning this JAPTI into another function, another content or broader content? Secondly: Why is it that from the originally envisaged 4 billion resources, such information, for the implementation of programmes, to improve the support environment and competitiveness of JAPTI, in the 2000 financial plan, is granted only funding of 525 million for programmes, only for the salaries of 62 employees, renting of premises and other operating costs, and the Agency will spend 570 million, so some imbalances are called upon, as the number of problems and the volume of programmes has therefore decreased, but the number of employees has not decreased, and the cost for these employees has not decreased?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Your Honor. The main idea of establishing a Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment was, of course, to bring together all supporting institutions whose competence belongs to the Ministry of Economy in a single agency for entrepreneurship and foreign investment and to increase the visibility of this. We are primarily talking here about small and medium-sized enterprises that need such a supportive environment most. This was in fact the beginning of the ideas after the merger of as many as four institutions into this public agency, namely the PCMG, TIPO, this is what the Agency for the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, as well as the Slovenian Tourism Organisations. Given the importance and, say, the perspective of tourism and a specific task related to tourism, it was therefore at this first stage of the decision that the Slovenian tourism organisation should remain independent and, as such, in particular, emphasises and cares about the promotion of the Slovenian brand abroad, Slovenian tourism and consequently has not joined. As you know, the government has also adopted a proposal for a law that would actually unite the remaining three, but with operational follow-up tasks this has proved to be too bureaucratic for the Slovenian Enterprise Fund to join this agency, depending on the validity of Slovenian legislation in the field of funds and, consequently, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund has remained independent and has also substantially upgraded measures and resources to support small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why this is also the result and your answer to the specific question why it is then in the rest of the Agency, so that part ran out of measures and the resulting means to support these measures. Thus, this year, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund acquired an additional 5.2 billion money only for subsidies in support of projects of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me illustrate this number with the following, that the Slovenian Enterprise Fund was available for subsidies in 2004, when, of course, it was not responsible for this government, about 180 million. In 2005, when the rebalancing was adopted, these funds were about 3.2 billion and in this year 5.2 billion, meaning that together with the fund it converts this fund and makes available to Slovenian entrepreneurs, in particular SMEs, over 10 billion subsidies and, of course, loans under more favourable conditions. This is a major step forward. As a result, the answer why the set of projects for the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness, whose main task after the new one is to promote entrepreneurship, to operate an effective support environment for entrepreneurship, in particular, I think the project is all in one place, to provide advice, to internationalise enterprises as well as to promote foreign direct investment, is also essential for this purpose this year, and it is true that everything does not fall within the Agency's work programme. For example, the Ministry of the Economy will call for the promotion of foreign direct investment around 2 billion tolls this year. In order to internationalise or promote the establishment of Slovenian economy representations, some 400 million tolars are allocated this year to establish this network, in particular in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, the statement of funding by the Member State is therefore not accurate because it looks at the narrow segment of the public agency, but does not look at in essence at all the instruments aimed primarily at content, i.e. the content of promoting small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of greater competitiveness and greater promotion of entrepreneurship. Thus, the fact is also that the programmes implemented by the public agency for entrepreneurship and foreign investment are not financed solely by the Ministry of Economy. And there's more of these, there's 1.7 billion tolars. These funds are also located in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you. Complementary question, Member Milan Petek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Mr. Minister, you may have barely reached the end of what I wanted to hear from you. So, it's clear to me, the WTO is out and the Slovenian entrepreneurs will be out at the same time. [[?]] We, as you know, intervened or wished it weren't. However, those functions which were intended for the public agency have been reduced. You excluded the financing of development and research projects, you excluded the programme of technology parks and incubators, you excluded business zones; we all expected these institutions to be part of the ministry. And that's why this criticism of mine flew to 62 people still here, so it's still too big a number. Compare only with the business fund in Maribor, which has 13 people, with 6 and 5.2 billion, indeed with a different type of activity, there are 62 with very specific activities, but investing in those programs that I would judge, but we think you did not quite get involved here. We therefore hoped that you would give this institution a slightly more important role in the perspective, because you had problems with setting up, because you had been looking for a director for a long time, at least after the information they had named, or appointed the government after very controversial references that could not actually be verified. And there is already one question about whether this is the best solution and whether such a director will be able to play an appropriate role. And there are these family connections, you know, the name Vadnjal appears as assistant director, on the other hand, director of the Centre for Small Economy Development in Ljubljana and so on. This is what we're going to have to go beyond in JAPTI, and here I've calculated that you're giving him some more attention in perspective, so we're going to get from JAPTI what we expect from those acts that were then the basis for setting up, sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you. Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Of course, I fully agree that JAPTI must be given a JAPTI and therefore gain a new mission, and I have also listed its basic tasks, contents and items of the various resources that go towards the implementation of these measures. I fully agree with you. JAPTI, or in particular the former PCMG, was involved in some of the surviving programmes in terms of supporting entrepreneurship. Of course, I am in favour of, above all, that it is crucial that we design and design concrete measures and programmes, and that we involve a human resources organisation in this. Of course, we do not want to be prisoners with new programmes of the existing situation with regard to the number of personnel, but rather to adapt the staff to what is actually the mission of this agency. I therefore expect the new director, who took office less than a month ago, to introduce an organisational structure and staff, which are likely to be substantially narrowed in terms of the new adopted programme, which is actually before the adoption of the government. However, I must say that JAPTI is given new tasks, mainly related to internationalisation, i.e. representation abroad, and it will certainly be possible to use this recruitment or this number of staff for new tasks, not for some of them to survive. I would only point out that I am aware of this, that the situation is developing and that JAPTI will have this new image in the coming months. I'd like to answer your questions about technology-related content. As you know, it is also an important responsibility of the technology agencies and, in agreement with this agency and the ministries that are competent for this sector and also have the resources for the development of technology or technological development in their budget, it is also agreed to transfer certain key instruments related to technology to this agency. In such a way that part of technological development, which was also primarily envisaged in the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment, passes to this technology agency. In short, the measures originally envisaged remain. It is true that they have been divided among some institutions, and this does not mean that there are no such measures, but JAPTI or the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment is essentially focused on promoting and developing entrepreneurship, making it easier to set up enterprises to promote foreign investment and internationalisation, technological development elsewhere as well as, of course, financial development, that is, the real fund, the financial fund, that is, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you. Member Matjaž Han, Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy, will raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Ministers and National Assembly! We have recently witnessed an enormous increase in bank service prices, whether it is an increase in cash on ATMs, the cost of keeping the account, the price of electronic banking services or the payment of bills. In raising bank service prices, it is interesting that banks have decided to encourage the service despite the fact that payment technology has not changed. Given that the largest banks covering Slovenia's majority market share are owned by the country, the government has appointed different members of the administrations and supervisory boards, we can see that this is a positive correlation between the government's decisions and the bank's business decisions. The question therefore arises who is responsible that people have to pay such high amounts of bank charges, including 400 tolars per bet, which can represent a very high percentage of the value of the bets. This is very apparent in the case of the payment of RTV contributions, which the government claimed would decrease but did not. On the contrary, because of these 400 tolars, it has also increased. We are also concerned about the unequal treatment of citizens and citizens, as some in their places, municipalities, the environment do not have the opportunity to seek cheaper banking services because of market conditions and are therefore forced to pay high bank rates. Inequitableness also appears in other segments. The largest share of the increase in tariffs will be borne and felt by the very elderly, pensioners with already low monthly incomes. And second. They cannot be expected to use other forms of billing in a mass way. I'm thinking mostly of electronic banking. Finally, I can see that most pensioners and pensioners will also receive between 2 and 5% of their monthly pension. When raising bank tariffs, however, it is interesting that banks have raised tariffs at the same time, and the government’s competition protection office has not yet submitted a report, and the question is therefore open to me whether these are cartel arrangements. I would expect the government to approach the situation quickly and responsibly, especially for the benefit of the people. That is why I ask you, Minister, Mr. Bajuk and Mr. Vizjak: What is the government's position on raising the prices of banking services and how will the government in concrete terms, given the fact that ownership in the largest banks controls the majority market share of the banking sector in Slovenia, help citizens not to have to pay excessively high tariffs for the bills, and what will it do to avoid re-enactment of services after taking over the euro? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you. Minister Bajuk, please answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Thank you for your question. Your Honor! Of the reports that we can all read, some of the businessmen involved in this decision to introduce these measures in some banks referred to the taking of the euro. Of course, as far as the euro is concerned and the alertness that the actual market will actually work is one of the key efforts of this government, and we have also introduced many things to avoid an increase in the prices of goods and services before or after the introduction of the euro that would not be justified. The fact is that we have already introduced, on the basis of the support and decisions of this national council, a double price labelling that will last another six months after the introduction of the euro and is intended primarily for self-control of the conversion of tolar amounts into euro by consumers. Finally, it turns out that what the government had in mind is based on the best experience in other countries of the European Union, which have already done so in the past, to bet on the Union of Slovenian Consumers and consumer organisations themselves and on the Office for the Protection of Competition and, last but not least, on the Office of Consumer Protection, which operates within the Ministry of the Economy, that it has proved to be the right policy. Above all, I would like to draw attention to one fact that is very important that this policy is truly credible. This is said to be assessed as the functioning of the market, not the will of the key players, either the government or other actors. If today Slovenia had shown such low inflation, which it had already demonstrated since November, when it had already completed these objectives, which are in these euro-taking criteria, if they had achieved this only on the basis of government decisions, then this would have been impeccable and would not have been assessed as sustainable in the future. So we need to be very careful what the government can actually do, where the powers are, even the authorities of this country in this regard. For example, I would like to remind you that Banka Slovenije has no jurisdiction in its law to determine such prices. But she can do what she has already done, and I have been in contact with Banka Slovenije's leadership, that she has demanded from all institutions an updated price list, which she also intends to publish, that all people will actually know where we are and what is really going on. The fact is that some institutions have decided to do so and some have not. Those who have not made up their minds, some who are in foreign possession have promised their commissioners that they would pay them back if they had to pay for such things. I think that the only way at this moment, when we are so under magnifying glass, regarding the functioning of market institutions in Slovenia, is that the best policy we have already decided on is to bet that the market really works, that the Union of Consumers of Slovenia plays its role, that the Office for Competition Protection is actually examining whether or not there was a cartel agreement and not least in the Ministry of Economy of the Office of Consumer Protection. Otherwise, as Minister of Finance, I intend to have representatives of the government on the supervisory boards, who also do not have the right under the largest institutions under their jurisdiction to determine, say, the Supervisory Board, for example, the Ljubljana Bank does not decide on the price. That's up to the management. But we can demand, and we intend to demand that they give us the report and we will also publish why it actually happened. We are convinced that this may be understandable to some extent, but otherwise the administrations of these institutions will have to explain not only to the owners but, above all, to the market why they have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. Complementary question, Member Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I can actually believe these words of the Minister, but the fact is that people pay high tariffs for paying the bills, and that, I will say, the situation is unsustainable. It is also a fact that the government can easily exchange people both on the supervisory councils, in the administration. I believe that you have an influence on these people both in the administration and in the supervisory councils, so I hope that the government will do so, however, that people will not have to pay so much for paying the bills. However, I have asked an additional question, particularly to hear the reply of the Minister for Economy, Mr Visiak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you for the supplementary question. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The Ministry of the Economy does not, or does not support, such decisions by banks that were probably created by ad hoc when they were made known to the media. In view of the events in this banking sector, the Ministry has also convened one meeting on 15.3. where representatives of the Association of Banks, Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Consumer Protection Office and the Office for Competition Protection have called for special consideration, in accordance with their competences, of this problem, and if it is found that either legislation or the way in which this legislation is implemented is problematic higher-a-vis such phenomena, to act or propose certain amendments. It was agreed that Banka Slovenije would make a recommendation to banks that the decisions taken by banks on embezzlements were not a good move, that they should be made in sensitive and inappropriate times and that they should also be mitigated. Of course, it has also been imposed or not imposed, but as a specific recommendation, the Consumer Protection Office has undertaken to review the general terms of contracts between banks and consumers in terms of consumer protection, in particular unilateral pricing, and proposes amendments. I think there's one of the keys to stop this from happening in the future. In view of the conditions under which we, natural persons, or business entities, conclude certain contracts for the provision of banking services, are very general. They are not mainly determined because we lived at such a time that interest rates were changing rapidly, the different conditions in the operation of these services have changed and therefore the consumer or those on the other side of the bank had little or no opportunity to object to such changes. I think that, given the stable macroeconomic environment, this is different now and that is why we want to make this contractual relationship more clear. Secondly, the Competition Protection Office, which is also in the control phase over whether these banks acted as connected, is a cartel agreement and therefore will also be subject to jurisdiction [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Bureau also adopted measures. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The question will be raised by Ambassador Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Minister of Health of Mags. You're a freshman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. The reason for my question is your statements and the forecasts that announced the withdrawal of the power to grant concessions for basic health care to municipalities, so that until the establishment of the regions, the State will take over the award of concessions. Let me quote or draw your attention to the document, the World Health Organisation declaration on primary health, which states and clearly emphasises that local communities must be involved in primary health care and participate. Your statements have brought great unrest, concern and confusion to health homes regarding the future. In particular, health care workers who no longer see the real future in public institutions, health homes and think only about the need to flee as soon as possible between individuals or perhaps, together with FIDES, are looking for other organisational forms of cooperation, such as the so-called silent networks. In doing so, I would like to remind you that, in fact, our health homes are already such that they act as some form of collective, some sort of cooperatively connected activity and that in the past, according to my assessment and assessment, many have shown themselves to be distinctly or mostly positive, as many foreign experts speak of in this area. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in most local environments, health homes and concessionaires function well and cooperate well, that they have settled mutual obligations and rights and that most concessionaires operate within health homes, so I do not think there is any need to dismantle things. Let me stress that due to recent events and predictions, we are also deeply concerned in the congregations, since we have invested huge amounts of money in the congregations of the founders of health homes and built them with self - contributions, equipped them with donations. The municipalities know what the pulse and the most appropriate way of operating the health system is at the primary level, so, I can also say this on behalf of the municipalities of Slovenia, we do not agree with the withdrawal of competence and we want to actively participate in all changes. What are the reasons for the withdrawal of concessions? Are there any analyses, and what is your vision of how basic health care should work in the future? Wouldn't it be more appropriate to edit a completely bulky, outdated and inadequate health network that doesn't reflect population and demographic changes? What do you think the future role of health homes is?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you. I'm asking Minister Brucan for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, with regard to my statement of forecasts that the competences for the award of basic health concessions should be taken away from the municipalities and given to the establishment of the regions of the country. Well, I have to say, I'm walking all over Slovenia, and now I don't know who you've been talking to, except maybe with representatives in this world. I quickly get the impression that there is a very positive approach to this everywhere I've talked to before. I haven't lived to have at least been told that I don't have any support here. Foreign experts talking about our basic health care system are welcome and, of course, they should be taken into account with pleasure. But I have to say, they're not used anywhere in the world. So the system that we have in our country is unikam, especially with regard to concessions at this very level, concessions at the primary level. All the countries of the former Eastern bloc have gone to the concession scheme virtually 95 % at the primary level and some other countries that are not even in the European Union at all, such as Croatia. So I'm not actually saying anything and I've never said that a healthcare home as such would not be a suitable organisational unit at some stage and in some form, and this has been shown in the past. Today, however, he has survived a system that is not used anywhere in the world. Therefore, not cooperatives are established around the world, but groups of doctors who carry out a particular business after it is actually possible to grant a prior concession on the basis of a tender. In Slovenia, in fact, we only meet this in one point, namely, when it comes to a contract with a health insurance company. After obtaining the concession, there is an invitation to tender for the contract on the insurance undertaking. And that is why I must say that this part is regulated and we will also try to correct it with new legislation. In this regard, I would like to tell you about the role of healthcare homes in the future, that I see nothing in terms of disassembly. We see in every way in Slovenia in several places where, as you yourself said, good cooperation. However, there are places where this cooperation between the private and public sectors is not practical and we would like to prevent it. And I think we have real support for that as well. Well, your comment on the impairment of public interest by the concessionaire and the granting of concessions probably has no basis. I can answer the opposite. Many centres, the Bled diagnostic center, Medicor and so on at the secondary level use very well their work. At the primary level, I could also list a whole range of concessions that have helped solve a number of problems and improve access to a doctor. Where there were no misunderstandings and excessive demands, concessionaires also remained under the auspices of the former healthcare home building and undoubtedly contribute to the rationalisation of work. Nevertheless, let me point out that there is a law in preparation that will regulate the relationship between private and public, as well as the law on concessions. However, as long as we have the Health Act, which defines the award of concessions, we need to stick to it and stick to it for 100 percent. Let me conclude with the information that after a long-term effort we have finally reached the basic health database. The former government has not been able to do so yet, although it has had very good data since the year 2000, which we have prepared and handed over, have not been used. Well, we have now prepared this data on the network, the so-called network, at the basic level. And the patient data is already ready anyway. But with some of the criteria that we are preparing and the criteria, there is actually a network project that will be the basis for professional decision-making in the future. All with one purpose, of course, is to ensure equal access to quality health services for all people in Slovenia. A law is being drawn up to regulate the award of concessions and will also have, in one of the points, an invitation to tender for the award of concessions which is not currently in the current legislation at this point and is being transferred to the signature of a contract with the Institute of Health Insurance after the award of the concession. As for my withdrawal performances, I did not say anything about depriving the congregations of jurisdiction, but that we would discuss this and choose the best option in the future. I've said this a number of times and I want to say, of course, that this is the only possible option to equalize [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. The additional question is raised by the Member of the Council of the Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The Municipality of Slovenia met on Friday. The community of municipalities unites more than 120 Slovene municipalities. At this meeting we also recorded in the media, expressed great concern and demand that the congregations take part in these matters. That's how it's summed up from this session that I've been asking. Second. With regard to the fact that this is a well-established practice in the world, I must say that according to the data I have in Finland, only 8% of the people in primary health care are in Sweden, 12% of the individuals in Sweden, which means that the countries that are our model do not see their future and their order in such a matter alone, or those are the countries that are also preserving the social state, where we are already halfway to dismantle it. I'm asking you: In your opinion, what is the complementary relationship between concessionaires and doctors in the public health institution, i.e. at this level? I'm asking you: How will the activities of the E.R., the on-call, the Partronage Service be regulated in such a case? I'm asking you: Who will take care of overworked workers in health homes who will become overly private? Who will supervise all these individuals, since the Medical Chamber is unable to do so on its own terms, and we currently partially control these matters but also local communities through the authorities of health homes? I'm asking you: Who will take care of postgraduate education at this level of basic health, where we have so far financed these matters mostly from local community funds? What will happen to property relations in these health homes? There's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you. Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	As for the participation of the municipalities in the future, I can guarantee that we will be very happy if the municipalities will participate in the preparation of these projects in the future and that I will have nothing to do with the ministry, but that the municipalities will be able to join this project ahead of us. As for other countries that are still supposed to have health homes and public service at the basic level, you have mentioned Finland and I think that Sweden, which actually has a low percentage of concessionaires, is the only country in Europe. Austria is 95, Germany is 90, France has 89%, etc. These are countries that have a different kind of basic health care. However, two countries have a completely different system, but among these 8% or above 8% are 92% of those not so-called privates, including many contract workers with the country in the field of health. What will be the relationship between concessionaires and government officials in public institutions? I think it's a great case in Postojna, where things have gone terribly well and work out, so there are no problems. Half of them are concessionaires, half are state-owned, and I think it's been going on for a long time, and it's working really well. It is clear, however, that the contract signed between the concessionaire and the municipality on the performance of the work must be taken into account in all of this. As far as overworked workers are concerned. Here you indirectly admit that there are very many employees in health homes. I don't think so, but in any way this question of yours is talking about that in the case of privacy a lot of people won't be out of work, but I don't think there's gonna be any need, because the only thing that's the only smart way to do this is not to hire new jobs. Who's gonna control it? They're going to be controlled by the House like they were before. This is the function of the Chamber and in any way the Chamber will also have to control and control the private sector in the same way as the public authorities. There's no difference. I don't think there's much trouble here. As far as the E.R. is concerned and as far as emergency medical and on-call services are concerned, things will be arranged in such a way that all those who will carry out basic health care services will carry out this work on a certain schedule. Practically, this service, which we are talking about, the emergency room and the duty station, especially the emergency room, cannot be private and are not intended to be private in the future. I don't think we need to be afraid of this, and that in the future we will achieve a better healthcare system that will be closer to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you. Procedurally, the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, we hold a debate on the Minister's response to the situation and the future of basic health care. I believe that this is a major problem mainly because there is nothing, and this has also been shown by the answer, by the analysis. Finally, we do not have any analyses from which we would know clearly and loudly that everything needs to be changed, but especially in this system there are no clear analyses of the situation of health homes, which have so far been shown to be an extremely positive form of organisation at the basic level in other areas. Last but not least, we have a number of defence and protection issues in health care regarding major natural disasters and civil protection, and there is a whole range of issues for which, without the Minister having the legal basis or through law and through the amendment of laws or perhaps the national health programme still in force, he carries the 2004 anniversary, which states that health homes are the carriers of organisational linkage and activities at primary level and are also, on a global scale, a successful model of such activities. This is a 2004 document. I don't know what actually happened in less than two years, that suddenly such a rush into both privacy and privatisation, and I stress that the absolute place must be for the participation of local communities, because local communities are the ones who know best the beat of their place, the needs of their citizens and citizens. I don't see any real reason why we should, with one, I'll say, a fairly quick move to transfer this authority to the country, to untie the municipalities from this, but we are very good at funding even a number of things, buying ambulances, equipping health homes, working with them, which is, in fact, a way to move us away from this matter, and the goal, in particular, of ministers, is to privatize as quickly as possible, and also in terms of privacy, to regulate primary health care, and we still have not, in the first place, patients who think about it, the quality of the service, but, in particular, that doctors, including those who don't want it, and now there are many who don't want it to be private, will be forced to go to do something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. Ambassador Kvetka Zalokar Orazem, we will decide on your initiative tomorrow in the context of the vote. The next on the list of Members who ask the question of a Member of Parliament is Mr Boztjan Zagorac. He refers his question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Respectable men who insist. Madam Minister, you probably know that on 18 March the Assembly of the Association of Agriculturals of Slovenia was held in Trojan. Mr Janez Drnovšek, President of the State, has also attended this general assembly, as has been the case in recent times, and he has also added such comments as: many Slovenians will move from towns to farmers because we are discovering a new quality of life. He also added such things that it is necessary to subsidise small farms after a new one, although you and I are likely to know that during his term as Prime Minister, he was the one who advocated the subsidisation of large farms. It was he who claimed that small farms in Europe did not have a perspective. On this side, I wonder why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not responded to this, we can say, even stupidity, unless we know it at this time, this National Assembly does not know it, has changed the strategy and has decided that small farms are also those who will receive subsidies or who need to be encouraged. In relation to subsidies. Although we have already taken a strong step in 2006, some subsidies have not yet been paid, mainly for the poultry farmers from Kras and Istria for the past year. Farmers planned these funds, leased loans and did not receive them until today. Today they face liquidity problems, including the return of property to those banks where they leased loans. We do know, however, that every good master plans his business ahead. Last but not least, given that you are paying subsidies for 2005 in 2006 and will pay them if you follow the law, even for 2006, you will talk to the Minister of Finance about how these people will account for their income. Will they not come to a higher tax grade in one year because of the double receipt of funds and thus lose some of the subsidies that would otherwise belong to them? Thank you, for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	I ask the Minister for answers, but I ask the other ministers not to disturb the debater who asks the question, nor the minister or the minister who answers the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you for this question, honourable Member, and for your concern for the existence and survival of small farms in the Slovenian agricultural area. Let me mention that, in accordance with the European legal order, the market price policy subsidy or so-called direct payments shall be granted to all agricultural holdings provided that they have at least 30 acres of land. Therefore, the opportunities for use of funds are the same regardless of the size of agricultural holdings. However, it has been slightly different so far in the enforcement of investment support relating to investments in agricultural holdings. The tendering conditions so far have been adapted to support large agricultural economies, as you have already found out. However, since the current agricultural policy also supports medium-sized and smaller agricultural economies, the terms of the tender, which will be issued in early April, will significantly change, simplify and lower the criteria so that smaller or medium-sized farms can run. Let me also mention the diversification of agricultural activities and activities close to agriculture. These are so-called alternative income resources. In the framework of this measure, complementary activities and activities in relation to farms shall be supported. It is the processing of agricultural crops, timber, farm tourism, domestic trade, renewable energy and the sale of agricultural crops. The amount of aid varies from 40% to 60%, depending on the purpose for which the applicant requests funds. In particular, the aim of the measure is to provide an additional source of income on the farm and to create new rural jobs. This is also a fundamental guide to the European Union's common agricultural policy and to the governments of the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of the rural development programme measures. You asked about the payments of subsidies. The legal deadline laid down by the European legal order provides for the payment of subsidies from 1 December to 30 June of the following year, which is until 30 June 2006 for 2005. The Agency for Agricultural Markets issued 38 000 decisions in December and settled all commitments to farmers. Since 1.1.2006, the Income Act has entered into force, which has introduced certain amendments. The fact is that the Agency for Agricultural Markets is obliged to pay the advances. This meant that we had to complete or implement the whole computer application of the Income Law in a computer application, so that we were now decommissioning. From 15 March to the previous week, the Agency calculated and issued decisions for 2004 in all cases where beneficiaries or farmers were successful in the appeals proceedings. It is currently processing the entire package of 25 thousand decisions to be issued at the end of this week and paid within 5 days of the decision being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thanks again for saying that. I thank you for this answer, but I would still ask you to make it easier to understand all those who are involved in agriculture and who have received subsidies or have received subsidies this year for 2005, what this means practically. Will they come, by getting double funding in one year, into a higher tax grade or not? It's very specific if you answer. On the other hand, when you mentioned the European Union and the strategy of the European Union and the promotion of Slovenia to smaller farms, I had quite a few opportunities to talk about these things in Brussels, and there are not a lot of opportunities to think about small farms. They have a certain limit on how large the farm should be to survive within the European Union. That's why I feel like talking about it - unless it's a small farm for you, I don't know, a farm over 5 hectares, then I apologize in advance - it seems to me that there will be a need to encourage small farms in the Republic of Slovenia, throwing sand in the eyes of people who are listening to it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u152	Minister, will you respond, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u153	For a little while. See, the Slovenian farm is on average 6,3 hectares. We need to know and count on a farm like it is. We have about a thousand farms that are 30, 50 or more hectares. Therefore, in the next programming period, now that we are preparing a national rural development strategic plan, we will give priority to complementary activities. These activities, as I said, will be an additional source of income on the farm, including on the 6-hectare farm, and will allow new jobs or at least better benefits from existing jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Given that a large number of Slovenian farmers are in ignorance about the receipts and receipts they will receive, it seems to me that we should not leave them in this ignorance. Therefore, at least our National Assembly, I hope that it also requires specific answers from the Minister of Agriculture and also from the Finance Minister on how to account income for those who have received subsidies this year, so I propose an extended debate in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow within the voting point. The following question will be raised by Mr Josip Bajc, three ministers, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister and Madam Ministers! The Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption in Article 7, paragraph 1, provides that the sale of alcoholic beverages and beverages to persons under 18 years of age is prohibited. The first paragraph of Article 9 of the same Act also prohibits the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages to persons who may be presumed to be transferring them to persons under 18 years of age. The competent police, which belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, shall supervise the sale of alcoholic beverages in catering establishments under the first paragraphs of Articles 7 and 9 of the Law on the Limitation of the Sale of Alcohol. The health inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, acting within the Ministry of Health, shall be responsible for the supervision of the sale of alcoholic beverages in catering establishments under Article 7, paragraph 1. However, for the control of the sale of alcoholic beverages in shops to persons under the age of 18 years, it is the responsibility of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, acting within the Ministry of the Economy, under the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption. In order to provide comprehensive information on the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the alcohol consumption restriction law, it is therefore necessary to respond to all three departments or ministries in which individual competent authorities operate to oversee the implementation of the law. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary, How many times have the competent authorities, as laid down in Article 15 of the Alcohol Restriction Act, exercised control over the implementation of Article 7, paragraph 1, and Article 9, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Alcoholic Drinks in 2004 and 2005? How many violations have been identified in this regard? Since I have already received a written reply from the Minister of the Interior, I am merely asking him: Whether the data transmitted were that the police found a violation of the alcohol restriction law in 2004 were in 1,576 cases and 373 in 2005. Is this information that the police were less involved or less involved in their work? Thanks for the answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you. Can we expect an answer from which minister? Comrade Bajc, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. Indeed, by implementing the law, the market inspectorate has also acquired new powers in terms of controlling the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages exclusively in shops, i.e. persons under 18 years of age, persons who show obvious signs of alcohol awareness, persons who are reasonably presumed to be seconded to younger persons. So there's more of that. The supervision began immediately after the law was enacted in 2003. By that time 521 inspections had been carried out in 2003. 188 infringements were found, and in two cases the market inspectors found the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons who subsequently provided alcoholic beverages. In 10 cases, merchants sold alcoholic beverages to minors, in one case the trader sold alcoholic beverages via an automatic self-service device. In six cases, however, traders sold drinks within the time limit for selling alcoholic beverages. The most observed infringements, this is 169, were concerning the prohibition of sales and the time limit on the sale of alcoholic beverages, because they did not go up or out in the right place. In 2004, 91 inspections were carried out by market inspectors in the territory of Slovenia, 29 warnings were issued as a result of the infringements found and 20 proposals were made under the law for the illegal sale of alcoholic beverages to the magistrate for offences, and checks after warnings revealed that the shortcomings had been corrected. In 2005, the inspectors had a special action and carried out tighter controls on traders and carried out 205 inspections. In total, only 18 other violations of the law were found, which is relatively small in terms of the number of cases examined. The sale of alcoholic beverages during this action in these 205 inspections to minors has not been established. In just one case, the inspector found the sale of alcohol after 21 hours, and in seventeen cases there were shortcomings in the notification of the prohibition on the sale of alcoholic beverages. In 2005, the market inspector, as a criminal authority, issued a payment order under the Act on Offences in the sense of fine of 500 000 tolls to a legal person and 100 thousand tolls to a legal person for the illicit sale of alcohol. Inspectors have increased control in those shops and shops located in the immediate vicinity of schools and are, in particular, more frequently visited at lunchtimes and at the end of school at Friday evenings or at these times, where there is a higher demand for alcoholic beverages due to the opening of nearby restaurants. The action was focused on these crisis locations at the appropriate time to detect these irregularities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, I can only answer this question in one part. The Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption also authorises, inter alia, the health inspectorate to control the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages and beverages to which alcoholic beverages are added in in-house establishments for persons under 18 years of age. The supervision was carried out in the framework of regular programmed inspections, in parallel with the broader review and in accordance with the rules under which the health inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia supervises and under strict supervision, including actions, including the police responsible for the supervision and implementation of Article 7, paragraph 1, and Article 16, paragraph 4. As regards the number of inspections carried out by ZIRS, this is said by the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004 and 2005. In 2004, 3 000 758 checks were carried out and 5 thousand 254 checks were carried out and 1 year 297 violations were detected, the second year 164 violations. Here I do not have time to read everything, in which paragraphs and paragraphs or in which articles this breach has been identified. The main concern was 67 infringements identified by the health inspectorate, prohibitions on the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages under 18 years of age, which was not covered in previous statistics, as this is the case with the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for me now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you. Comrade Bajc, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also ask the Minister of the Interior to comment on the information I have already received in writing, and I would also ask the two ministers who are orally to narrow down what they have written down if I can also obtain it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you, Comrade Bajc. In the meantime, I'm just asking you, so do you know what the answer is going to be? Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll comment on this information you've already read. First of all, I must say that the police exercise their control within the framework of the large number of actions they carry out and in their regular work. So I can't give you statistics how many times they've been to a restaurant, because it's virtually impossible to establish it and we don't run it that way. I must also say that the police have cooperated very well with both inspectorates over the past two years since we have implemented this law and that there has been something common in the field, so that we can be as effective as possible in doing so. It is true, however, that, compared to 2004 in 2005, the police, at the same level of work, experienced significantly fewer violations in this area. When we did this analysis and tried to figure out why there was such a drastic decline, we somehow found that in other inspectorates in charge of this area, we also find a significant decline or a significant, more than 50% decline in the infringements that have occurred in recent years. And here we have come to the conclusion that, in fact, independent entrepreneurs, responsible persons, are much more aware of the consequences of this law in places where the police are mostly doing their most. Of course, the penalties imposed in the past also had a certain effect and so we came to this number, which is significantly smaller. In fact, last year, 337 violations were detected by the police in all those areas covered by the police and we believe that entrepreneurs, if I say so or by private individuals, are much more aware of the consequences they have if they break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you. Any other ministers? [[No, no, ……]] Then we continue this debate. The question will be raised by Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler, Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary! You know, you will recall that the LDS Group has both opposed the law on amendments and additions to the law on the public sector wage system and the decision on the salaries of officials. And today, I don't think we can get past the fact that both of them, both the law and the decree, caused resistance between the judges or the so-called white sentence. At the same time, all other issues and problems have emerged on a day-to-day basis, which, according to the judiciary, create an adverse situation in the judiciary, which eventually also translates into a slow resolution of delays in the Slovenian courts. In fact, we can say that there have been some extraordinary situations in Slovenia in the judiciary. At the Extraordinary General Assembly of the Court of Justice on 21 March this year, attended by a good third of the judges, as well as by half of the figures, you said that the Minister of Justice was in favour of such a payment system that would help remedy the judicial backlogs. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: Do you still insist that the pay system, as regulated by the new law and decree, is appropriate? How do you imagine that such a pay system will reduce the backlog if the actual problems of the judiciary are, at least so often, stressed by judges, inadequate provision of working conditions, insufficient number of judges or assistants and professional colleagues, inappropriate premises, inappropriate equipment and so on, and of course also in inadequate procedural laws, at least some? Do you think that it is even possible to count on the implementation of the Lukend programme when there is not at all the necessary resources in the budget for this purpose and when all of this current developments in the judiciary and in relation to it further undermines the judges for more efficient work? If you support the implementation of the current law and the salary decree, but at the same time support the establishment of a specific mixed working group which, on the basis of the established baselines, would prepare a new proposal for the system of awarding judges, what kind of payment system in the third branch of the government are you actually taking? On 16 March this year, you were informed by the District Court, Mrs Darje Novak Krajšek, that in your personal discussion, if there is a white sentence of judges, you will change the constitution and replace or obtain 500 new judges with a temporary term and those you will like also grant a permanent term. Mr. Minister, does this mean that you are thinking about changing your permanent term of office and perhaps even favoring this change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. I am very pleased that you have raised a number of problems with the question that we are facing with regard to the abolition of the judicial backlogs that have accumulated in the previous years of the government and for which the previous government is responsible in addition to the judiciary itself. The programme for the abolition of judicial arrears was launched by the government last year. As soon as the European Court of Justice in the Lukend case was adopted in Strasbourg, the government reacted very quickly. It has adopted the basic elements in the Lisbon strategy, in the reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and has offered them in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia and finally in the Lukend project. What did the government say in these documents? She said that it was among the main measures to ensure greater efficiency of the judiciary and the abolition of judicial arrears, and that, in addition to providing spatial conditions and providing and organising human resources or professional staff, support staff for a certain period of time, from 1.1.2007, we also consider the incentive remuneration of judicial staff and the special possibility of increased workload. The provision of spatial conditions, as you have mentioned, is certainly crucial. I am pleased to say that last year, by the end of last year on the internal market, the government gained management rights in the business premises of the former Durs in Maribor 809 square meters, in Celje 887 square meters and in Krske 230 square meters. It also provided the necessary premises for the needs of the land book in the Ljubljana District Court. In short, at the most neurological points where there are also the most judicial setbacks. These premises are now being redesigned and will start serving justice functionally for their needs this year. In addition, for the purposes of the courts, the government bought business premises in Ormož at 600 square metres, in Trbów 1130 square meters and in Sežana 270 square meters. This year we continue with projects to modernise both spatial conditions and to purchase office equipment and information technology as well as recording devices. This year, more than 300 million tolars are foreseen. The Lukenda programme will succeed because it must succeed because the country has no other choice. We will receive this Thursday's next series of judgments from the European Court of Justice, which will give the State the payment of additional penalties again for cases involving years and years from the period of the previous government, when the previous governments have done virtually nothing convincing. It will certainly be possible to implement all these programmes at the time of the budget rebalancing. With the balance of this year's budget or budget for 2007, we anticipate providing all these additional resources. Let me finally answer the question. I never said 500 new judges should be replaced. To that, I'll say what the hint was answered in Trenja's show. The President of the Supreme Court, Testen, replied, so let me just deny it here. The person who said that texted something that just wasn't true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you. Complementary question of Mr Lovtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Can we count on this answer, as far as Judge Novakovo is concerned, you have already called on the judiciary to judge in the broadcast. Now can we say what to stop lying to the judge or what? I'd say this. Lukenda, the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights was no surprise. The fact that more than 100 lawsuits have been brought before this court for some time by our citizens and all of them refer to the misunderstanding of the time frame of the trial, says that this country should have been prepared earlier for these judgments to be handed down sooner or later, even sooner than later. This was no surprise. Or was it? How come you haven't taken care of the budget when you've obviously planned this Lukenda programme, the necessary funding? Why is it now necessary to obtain these necessary resources in the balance? Besides, it's not true that the previous government didn't do anything. We know that Hercules's program was that there were other programs, but that this issue of judicial backlogs is probably no longer so easy to resolve administratively. You're saying Lukende's program is gonna work because it has to work. I have to say that this answer doesn't convince me, and certainly not the others. I would also like to ask you this: Do you admit that a mistake has been made when you did not guarantee the participation of this third branch of government in the discussion of what will be the law and decision governing wages in this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you, too, for this additional question. We've already made contact with the judiciary. We have proposed the establishment, and this has already been adopted, special mixed groups and discussions will start shortly. I already had one meeting with representatives of the judiciary today. I am sure that in the negotiations we will come up with such a pay system that will help remedy the backlogs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I thank the Minister for these answers, but as we say, some have not been convincing. In fact, I did not get an answer to the question of how, on the one hand, it is possible to support the solutions that are in this law and decision, on the other hand, to talk about the fact that you are already talking and that you agree that there is a need to re-organise this in a mixed working group. We know the law has been passed, waiting to be judged before the Constitutional Court, but yet, I asked you whether you support the law or support now some foreign variants of the solution of the 'delege ferenda' is saying something that should only, if it will, come into force. I think that the situation in our judiciary is very serious, that it is a third branch of power, which, of course, is crucial to the realization of the rule of law in Slovenia, which is why the judiciary is inherent, it is its inherent role. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate at the next meeting of the Assembly on the situation in the judiciary in terms of the legislative and executive branch of the authorities and their actions, and that we provide an appropriate legal basis for the resolution of pressing problems in the judiciary. I think the situation is more than mature for the National Assembly to hold such a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the State Assembly will vote on your proposal tomorrow under the voting point. We are moving on to the next question. It will be taken over by Ambassador Majda Potrat, Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u177	Dear Minister, ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Development Strategy lists five priorities. There's no health among them. Also in Brussels's response on Slovenia's development strategy, there is no specific reference to health. Nevertheless, many people believe that health is of utmost importance to every individual during every life period. However, I could myself list at least five very pressing health-related issues. If I start only with a small number of doctors, long waiting lines, reducing the rights of patients, shifting the financial burden on an individual or pointing out that due to the ageing of the population there is a demographic picture that will require the maintenance of the active age, much more resources for health and social care, I would like to warn the latter that I am glad that the expected age in Slovenia is constantly longer, but unfortunately not as long in all parts of Slovenia, so I am aware that adjustments to health care are necessary, but I am not sure that all planned changes are such that they will allow equal accessibility and quality of health services for all segments of the population. Solidarity is therefore a very important principle that should be integrated into planned systemic solutions. Uncertainty and anxiety can be observed among people. The planned reforms and individual measures are not always in the best interests of all citizens and citizens, but they feel that their fundamental rights are at stake, and the European Social Charter speaks of them as fundamental rights. In a 2005 study, the World Health Organisation found that the availability of health services is reduced by some layers wherever privatisation is concerned. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What is the health privatisation strategy? How and when will it be presented to the professional and interested public? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. But we have, in part, talked about this point already, it is said, at least today, about one of the previous questions sent, but there are still quite a lot of things that can be answered further in the light of the facts in question. However, I will take this opportunity to draw attention to some of the inaccuracies that have occurred before, especially those that speak of the existing national healthcare programme that is scheduled to take place in 2004. This is a programme that has ceased to apply this year. It was adopted in 1999 and adopted by the previous government and was then very little realized in this programme. The former government has not left us any guidance, no new national programme, so this national programme has urgently had to be extended now and we are preparing a new one, and what you want will also be presented here, this is said to be the question of how and when our next strategy will be presented to the professional public as a national healthcare programme that will be in place by 2013. Now, the basic principle of our policy is to ensure that all citizens of Slovenia have equal access to quality health services. However, the general principle is that the health policy objectives of public institutions and individual doctors must be designed on the basis of measurable indicators and measured on the basis of indicators their work and effectiveness. Important measures to improve the work of public health service providers include measures to promote, at the primary level, concessions and the integration of common practice. A network of regional hospitals should be established at secondary level and a private hospital pilot project should be prepared. Tertiary institutions, such as clinics and institutes, must remain state-owned as institutions of special national importance, this being said at national level. It is also necessary to establish and develop private health insurance offers. Private health insurance must provide insurance based on the principles of individual risk and reciprocity, as elsewhere around the world. A pilot project for the organisation of health homes is in preparation, as with the gradual breakdown of the existing system we should start building a new system gradually and properly and so do we. We will pay particular attention to the implementation of strategic guidelines at the level that are in direct contact with users. Above all, quick response time, quality service, productivity, business accuracy and a wide range of services with parameters that reflect the quality of the offers offered by a healthcare business operator, but there are several possible solutions or models of action; public institution, concessional ambulance, cooperative, which is not the right term, but better heard group practices and a group of concessional ambulances, which is more than group practice, I think, these are more group practices. For each of these models, a model of operation will also be set up, we also define measurable performance parameters and it will be possible to compare health homes between each other and concessionaires with health care providers, all of which were not done at this time. Otherwise, the Health Act in Article 42 lays down the procedure for granting concessions and, of course, we stick to that. The law cannot be circumvented, especially as regards the procedure for granting concessions where an administrative procedure is introduced at the request of the party. So, of course, the law is also about the general administrative procedure. This law does not provide for any interruption or suspension of proceedings because of the administrative authority's decision not to run it. Of course, it should be reiterated that we are preparing a law on the relationship between private and public, as well as a law on the award of concessions. The question was also about the lack of doctors, this did not arise in our mandate, as a result of the wrong policy since some time in this country even said that doctors in Slovenia were too. In part, we will solve the shortage of doctors or solve the shortage of doctors in 2007, including by abolishing the secondary, not deliberately, but by means of a procedure, because from then on doctors of general medicine or family medicine will act only as specialists, and the secondary will not work for those 18 months, thus gaining a certain number of doctors. The long waiting periods that you mentioned are regularly shorter, we have shared the dreadfully long waiting periods on December 4, 2004, these waiting periods have plummeted dramatically and are even shorter, so that, of course, I can gladly tell you again that if you apply for open-heart surgery today, you will be operated in about five weeks. When we took over the term of office, it was at least five to ten times longer. In short, we have a vision, and I've also told you which points. I think we can do it, too, of course. But we certainly don't want any change in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you. Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you. What you've just told me holds true. But I also listen to people, especially there are no waiting types if they decide to visit a private infirmary. As privacy takes place in another country, we see what is happening in Germany. But I am asking you about the strategy, and under the Public Finance Act, the strategy must be written, because the objectives of the strategy and the programmes in each area need to be presented, because the direct user, which is the Ministry of Health, must also be based on the legal and other basis on which the strategies and programmes envisaged are based. But it is possible to say that there are many things spoken and heard; questions are more than answers. I do not want to talk about Kuštrin's model, but about any other model, but certainly the forms of privatisation or privacy are a fundamental strategic issue, and I believe, Mr Minister, that you have a vision, only others do not know it. But this is an important question for me, in the interest of the Slovenian public, and I think that everyone is precious. It is therefore appropriate to consider, in this context, the issue of brain drain, the issue of clientelism in this regard, about uncontrolledness in some models. Last but not least, what will happen to the equipment purchased from public funds or donations; you once answered me that I don't understand things. But it's a whole series of things where relationships aren't exactly defined, and it would be good to have, as we say, these models [[End warning sign]] the relationship between the private and public defined. And if you make such a strategy, I hope you will put it in public early enough. But to make a request, that's not because [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you. Minister, you warned me on time. Let me inform you that we have an automatic microphone shutdown. Minister, do you want to answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u183	As far as equipment purchased for public institutions is concerned, there will be no problems. What was made of self-contribution stays where it is. All private individuals are just an additional source of income for those who own these public institutions, this is a healthcare home. It is a rent that is paid if, of course, the municipality or the public institution is interested. The Bitenc models, Kuštrin and I don't know which other models that have already been mentioned are of course nothing specific. If I speak only about the Bitenc model in your language, the Bitenc model is fully in line with the current legislation. And I have to tell you that Dr. Bitenc performed more operations than he did before in a clinical center where he was not allowed or was not able to do. So I don't think this system is bad, but it still needs to be finished at a number of points. I think there are still a lot of things that need to be cleared up, but right now, once again, we need to apply the legislation in force, as proposed by the previous Minister, as well as I, when I was Minister for six months in 2000. In short, we can't go through the legislation in force here. That's why there's no uncontrolled departure. All private departures from the public service were in accordance with the applicable legislation. Brain drain - I don't know what you mean by that, you probably meant leaving the clinical center between private people. This isn't about brain drain. These doctors remain, even if they go into private life - and they have always gone so far in agreement, I have always sought agreement in the institution for such departure and transfer of the programme from the healthcare institution, which of course did not happen in the previous term. Many concessionaires received concessions at a secondary level without agreement with the institution. And all of our transitions to privacy went according to a prior agreement with the agency, and not one of them went without it. So I don't think there's any need to talk about the brain drain, especially because in this case these doctors are staying in the public service, and this is the only one that's private instead of state. Here's the deceiving, all the time, of some deceiving, of going between private people and going into some privacy without the direct influence of public funds. It's about using the same money from the insurance company, only the system is different and it's the same as elsewhere in the world. The relationship between public servants in the national sense and in terms of privacy, this relationship is also precisely defined in the current legislation, and we, as I have already mentioned, will define this matter even more precisely in the new legislation and present it in due time to all interested parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you. We continue to ask questions. Member Maja Širc, Minister for Culture, will raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Dr Vasko Simoniti, the resolution of the National Programme for Culture 2004/2007 is a binding document, which was adopted without conflicting votes. In your party you supported it, even more, the concern for the fate of Slovenian culture and the adoption of such an act was all present, it was loud and long-lasting, of course. I guess it's not like that anymore. With the fate of the National Programme for Culture, almost no one is dealing with it today. Your priority is the media, the exemplary strategic council is dedicated to parades and the Republican Assembly to elections, but in important parts, the NPK resolution is not implemented. On my written question, why the Ministry of Culture does not report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the resolution and any amendments and amendments, among other things, you have written me down arrogantly that you have been fascinated by my omniscience and said that I do not see because I do not want to see. Mr. Minister, I look with my eyes open and above all worried. You don't report on the implementation of the NPK, you're almost 1 year behind schedule, and you're turning your priorities. You're changing a lot of cultural policy's goals, and if we remind you of that, you say, yes, I quote, "We sound like those who don't recognise this court, and these are elections." In short, if we leave you behind to delay the report, I would ask you today a substantive question: Why are you avoiding the implementation of the National Programme for Culture? For example: Why is it not supported by the creation of a Museum of Modern Art, the 2000 collection, the establishment of a special budget fund for a book that was 100% supported here with amendments, why is it not supported by the creation of a museum of Slovenian film players in Divaca, a complete restoration of the modern gallery? I have listed only a few of the objectives of the resolution, but what is essential and about which I would also like to receive an answer in your reply, I also get an answer in your message: Why do you avoid the model proposed by the resolution to transform Viba's film from a public institution to an economic society? In short: Why not set up a model when the studio, technical studio Viba film, is transformed into an economic society, as recorded in the national programme for culture? We know you're proposing another solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you for asking. Minister, please respond. Here you go, Dr. Simonita.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So your question was why the resolution was not implemented in important parts, and that, if I understand correctly, you said or the question is why the resolution is not respected. So it's not like that. I think that the Ministry of Culture is doing this in important parts of the national programme for culture. This is quite evident for 2004. This is evident from the report prepared by the Sectional Services of the Ministry of Culture. This report has already been adopted by the National Council for Culture, at the same time confirmed by the Strategic Council for Culture, Education and Science. However, we are waiting for him to convey his opinion that he will also be represented by the Cultural Chamber. And once the House of Culture has done its duty, we will mediate it to the National Assembly. It follows from this 2004 report that the Ministry of Culture has implemented a national programme for culture in all important segments. In many ways, in some segments it was not possible to make it happen in 2004, but I can say that only in, that is, very marginal segments and only in part in some things. As regards the problem for 2005. I think we are realizing that we have implemented this national programme for culture to a greater extent. This has finally allowed for a rebalancing in 2005, but we will be able to deliver a final judgment once a report has been prepared by the Ministry of Culture has been prepared and I believe and I hope that it will not be the same as the 2004 report, but that it will be prepared and submitted to Parliament by mid-year. So in your question that you left out here, it was said that the announced reforms were supposed to end the national programme for culture, but you have not put it now. However, I could only reply that this is the first time I have heard this and that I do not know anything about it, so that we would not leave the national programme for culture. As you said, the Ministry of Culture is engaged, so that it does not deal with the national programme for culture, I completely reject it. That we deal more with the media is just one part of the programme or the priority that the Ministry of Culture is carrying out, and I hope it will lead to a successful end. Discussions are also ongoing to avoid certain things about the Museum of Modern Art, or the collection of 2,000. The book fund, it does not say anywhere that the budget fund must be established in a given year, but it is certainly time by 2007. I would say, however, that on all points, what the book fund is supposed to do and what it says in the national cultural programme, and at all points, the Ministry of Culture takes this into account. Regarding the merger of the film fund and the Vibe film, it has proved, so at least now, preliminary thoughts on this and attempts to design this, of course, have proved more appropriate to follow this and I will see more. We will try to do this in this year, and we will see, so we cannot say anything definitive about it, nor can we prejudge anything in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u188	Thank you. Complementary question, Ambassador Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. May I remind you, Mr Minister, that the budget fund for the book has also been entered into the national programme through a general consensus and with the support of the writers' society, and I suppose they will also point out this account once again. However, you yourself spoke about the reshaping of the Viba film study or your professional, but, colleagues, I don't know if it was professional, at the press conference, when you said that Viba film would join the film frame and, in my opinion, contrary to the resolution, of course, it would return to the time when the state had a monopoly on the film institute and it is said that this form would bring us back to the time of socialism that we all together resisted. You have given such a message at a press conference, and I am not the only one who is concerned about it, of course as a Member, I can compare such a decision, I hear that it is not final with the legislation in force, it is said by a resolution, where it clearly and unequivocally states that the technical service, the one carrying out technical tasks, should come to the market, of course, in a way that would also satisfy the national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you. I'm asking for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. So in a tone of expertise, I don't know why you'd be more professional than those who deal with it. I didn't know anything about your film expertise, even though you were talking about getting to know each other. The only expertise I've ever met in an hour of conversation with you has been a Swang and a suspension. Expertise, it is not a monopoly that is supposed to be created, these are models that are also known abroad, how exactly this will happen, we will see, but the considerations that are, are made, the basis for these considerations are models that are also known in some other countries. Of course, such a situation is not the most appropriate one. We've already been able to identify this and we're looking for a model for how to sort this stuff out. However, it is also true that the 2004 National Programme for Culture was not able to foresee all the things that have proved to be true in the past year, or already in 2004, and it would actually be unwise to stick to each letter to the national programme for culture, where some damage would also occur. So, already in a report that exists, unfortunately, is not yet in Parliament, because someone has not yet given an opinion, they point to some shortcomings that are simply not, they have not been foreseeable, or they have proved to be lifeless. This is what he is trying to follow, and I hope that, with good intentions and real goals, the film industry, if I say so, will get a better and more appropriate focus, which we have been working towards in the past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u193	I would like to discuss this response under Article 246(2). After all, the Minister himself expressed doubts about the law or the existing resolution, although he has not proposed corrections and solutions on a one-year delay so far at the legal level on this issue. I would like to listen to the debate on this subject, which may also include the question of my expertise, which has been expressed as an assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u194	Mrs Shirca, like each of the Members who have so far referred to a Rule of Procedure, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow, within the framework of the point of vote. We are, however, moving on to the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Srečko Friends, which is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent at a given time. That's why I'm asking my friend's colleague, will you still ask the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u195	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u196	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers and colleagues, colleagues! In the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004, under item 03.01 - foreign affairs and consular services, we can see that this item is almost 9 billion, and that under order number 25.42 - rent and other contractual obligations of diplomatic consular offices, we record the cost of 3 billion and 51 million for 2004, 2005 slightly more, in 2006 - 3 billion 384 thousand and for 2007 approximately the same amount. It is therefore a rental space which is intended for the work of individual consular offices. In my opinion, in my firm opinion, this is an irrational consumption, because we know that the foreign ministry in almost all countries rents these premises, which is contrary to the practice of a good master. If we play with the calculation, the two-thirds amount that I mentioned, i.e. 3,300 million, could already pay annuities for purchased premises in these countries where we are paying rents today, either for diplomats' apartments or for consular offices or for consulates' homes. So, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Why does he support such irresponsible work - it is about throwing millions through an open window - and of course who is responsible? The richest European countries cannot afford this. Almost all of these spaces have generally been purchased, of course using them according to the use for which they are intended. For it is well known that, despite repeated warnings - I have also asked the question of the Member of Parliament - the Minister for Foreign Affairs has failed to take this into account to this day. I would like a clear and clear answer because it's the taxpayer's money, why he doesn't want to do business rationally. I would also like to know who is responsible for this, if we know that almost every member of Mary's company or parish has a responsible economy that cares about economic behaviour, and that a large company, such as, if I may say under terms, the foreign ministry, would also have a more rational allocation of funds, which are almost 9 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you. Member Friend, your question will be referred to the Minister. We continue with the debate envisaged. The next one is mag. Vasja Klavora, after him is only a member of Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! From the responses of the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Bozič to my present question is that the road link Želen – Lower Idrija-Idrija-Logatec in the draft national programme for the modernisation of the state road network and in the package of projects that will run for funding from the cohesion and structural funds of the European Union in the financial perspective 2007-2013 is completely neglected. We ask the country to include this section of the fourth development axis equally in the largest road infrastructure project for the period 2006-2015 and in the next financial perspective of the EU for the period 2007-2013. The fact is that this part of the fourth development axis from Želen - Lower Idrija and Idrija to Logatca is not classified among the priorities of the national development programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007-2013, which includes the modernisation of the state road network, although this section of the road in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia has the same rank as the link between the Upper Soča via the Polish Valley and Škofje Loka to Ljubljana. This also makes it impossible to run for funds from the European Union funds. In this regard, the Government and the individual ministries were sent both the Žirov statement and the request of the municipal council of the municipality of Idrija for the classification of Keltika as priority projects in the national programme for the modernisation of the state road network signed by the mayors and Members of the region. That's why I'm inviting the Minister of Transport of Mags. Christmas and the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Podobnik to respond to the invitation of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality and to my invitation and visit Idrija. Minister of Transport mags. I also ask Christmas: When will the government send a national programme to the National Assembly to modernise the state road network? I also ask him: what is the status of the documentation for the modernisation of the section of the road from Drubič and Tolmina to Želen and forward to Idrija and Logatc. Today I drove from Idria to Ljubljana, and all the way to Logatco, I was unable to safely outrun the truck, which was on its way to the front of me. In particular, there was a critical section in the Idrija to Godovica rallies, where the rehabilitation works on the coasts are carried out only one shift from Monday to Friday afternoon, while all weekends and holidays, as well as several hours of each employee's work station, continue to stop traffic at the most critical section of Keltika. There is an urgent need to speed up the remedial work and better organise the work in the construction site itself. And finally, the Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Christmas, I'm asking: Does she really not realize that she's going to be with her plans? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] transport completely isolated the municipality of Idrija and part of the municipality of Cerkno and stopped the economic development of this region, which still belongs to the Slovenian and world summit itself today? [[..]] I expect the Minister to answer my question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you. That's what's gonna happen. The next question asked by Ambassador Breda Pečan, the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister and Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, who are in mass presence today in this Chamber! I ask the Minister of the Environment and Space about the conduct of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, which has very extensive public powers under the building law. Among other things, it has the status of a compulsory membership chamber. In fact, no architect who wants to have the status of responsible designer can perform this profession or work if he does not have the license of the Chamber of Architecture and Space. This public authority was granted to the chamber by law on the construction of buildings. I must say that this public authority of the chamber, without any exaggeration, is an abuse. The construction law also allowed the chamber to set a minimum, i.e. the minimum allowed tariff for Slovenian architects' services. This means that under this tariff, the architects must not go with their offers. But that's what's important. The statute defines more serious disciplinary infringements that may result in the withdrawal of a licence. While in the disciplinary order in Article 7, a series of points are being drawn up to say what are more serious disciplinary violations. The 27th point states that a serious disciplinary infringement is even if a member of the Chamber fails to comply with the provisions of the applicable tariff rule when determining his payment. Of course, we could understand this if it sets the amount of the fee, the amount of its earnings higher than that laid down in the tariff rule, but in this case I can say that this is not true. I ask you, Mr Minister: Do you intend to act in any way against a chamber that violates the principles of the competition law and indirectly causes disproportionate price increases in the market for services in the field of investment, one of the most important generators of gross domestic product growth, but also the most powerful potential generator of inflation in the country? Are you going to propose to the National Assembly for admission? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] amendments to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, by which you will enforce the principle of optional membership in the Chambers also in the Chamber of Architects and Designers of Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u202	Minister Podobnik, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, honourable Mrs Breda Pecanov. The three topics are - continue operation of the chamber itself for architecture and space of Slovenia, then the issue of public authority only these and the law in force on the construction of buildings. I can tell you in advance that you will not be 100% satisfied with my answer. The Minister may prescribe appropriate measures against the conduct of this current Chamber, which he exercises as a public authority and therefore endeavours to carry out the examinations, to that end he shall have public authority, to maintain the directory and to grant licences, provided that the Chamber does not act in accordance with the provisions of the applicable building law, or even if it did not comply with the implementing rules issued pursuant to this Act. The rules mentioned in your question are also of the opinion of the professional services at the Ministry, we discussed this issue several times, the internal matter of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia. And if it has been accepted by the competent authorities of the Chamber by their procedure in a democratic manner, then I cannot act as Minister directly in this case. Of course, despite the fact that this provision is an internal act of the Chamber, the competent disciplinary authorities of the Chamber must also act in accordance with the law in order to determine first the actual situation, to determine all the facts and to provide legal protection to the offender. I hope that this has been done in this particular process. The first paragraph of Article 119 of the Buildings Act provides that in disciplinary matters, the members of the Chamber shall be decided by the Disciplinary Commission at the first stage and, secondly, by the Disciplinary Court of the Chamber. I don't know which authority made that decision. But it's a little more complicated. However, the law already in force may provide that the Chamber may draw up a draft minimum tariff conditions for the provision of certain services. This is spatial planning, landscape architectural design, revision of architecture plans and so on if it is prepared in accordance with the law and sent to the Minister of Environment and Space to transmit this to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This would also make tariffs for the provision of a certain type of engineering services mandatory. So far, as Minister, I have not yet confirmed any proposal for a Chamber to issue such minimum tariff conditions. The finance sector also opposed this, referring to the rejection of the opinion of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. This means, of course, that such an act, which is based on the statute of the Chamber as well as the statutes and other acts, as with other associations, is therefore to be respected by all its members. This applies to the current situation. And now the second part of your question is the principle of optional membership in the chambers. In this case, you have made some interesting petitions to establish the principle of optional membership, and in this second law your parliamentary group has a different position. I understand your question. It will be good for Mrs Pečana to raise an additional question. Here it goes, I must be honest about the conceptual question, not only in this Chamber, but also in the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia we can take into account this so-called European Continental Model, that is the concept of public chambers or the English model, which is the model of a private chamber. In both cases, there are chambers of legal persons in which, without a profit motive, both economic operators, chambers of commerce or individuals engaged in a particular profession are to be combined. These are professional chambers. We currently have 20 chambers in Slovenia. I wouldn't count them. I have to be honest with you on this issue, which remains open in view of the specific issue. But we will meet with this when we move forward through the government on changes to the building law. Other professional chambers with their acts also have established similar tariff rules for their members, as in the case of an architectural chamber. This means, of course, that before the organisation of the Chamber of Architecture changes, it will be necessary for a public legal or private model, as decided in the case of the Chamber of Commerce, to think very carefully about what model we will choose. It is not a question of whether it is necessary to amend the building law immediately, but we have some other solutions, perhaps a new law on authorized architects and engineers. That's what we're thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you. Ambassador Breda Pecan has already announced a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you very much. So you don't understand sarcasm, Mr. Secretary. That is why I have asked the question whether you intend to amend the law on the construction of buildings by compulsory membership, because what you have mentioned is a tariff rule, namely, this Chamber also has a tariff rule specifying exactly how it is designed and at what level the price of the construction of the spatial plan, the implementing act, the project for obtaining the building permit and so on. Very precise, very extensive and very high prices. And I claim that here this Chamber misuses its public powers because it links a proposal to produce a spatial act or construction documentation with a licence granted to an individual authorised or major designer. This is an abuse or violation of the competition law for me, because it is not a matter of the powers conferred on the Chamber of Commerce, which you deny it the right to compulsory membership, but rather of the fact that it is a market service, because the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not determine the prices of services provided by members of these Chambers, but here is the price of services offered on the market, the Chamber of Architecture and Space sets market prices which must not be competitive. According to this logic, no architect should offer a price lower than that which the Chamber has awarded. At the same time, we know that at the old prices, at the old tariff, only 50% of the average reaching of the bidding tariff was. I don't understand what's going to happen right now. At the same time, we know that there are complaints of a breach of tariff [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you. Minister, supplemental response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u207	I'm just gonna give you one more answer. If you were somewhat sarcastic in your second part of the first part of the parliamentary question, then I answered you so much more when I told you that the question of which model we will apply in other chambers is an open professional question. So I clearly understood your sarcasm because I did not say very clearly about this question of how we would solve it. Now, however, the second question, which is related to your assessment that the Chamber essentially violates the competition law or the principle of competition. And this is something that would have to be proved in some process of course. I am not that minister or that body that would first formally process such a procedure and then also accept sanctions. My interpretation is next, I'll tell you again. The rule you are referring to is still an internal matter of the Chamber. And as an internal matter of the Chamber, if it has been accepted by the competent authorities of the Chamber in accordance with their procedures, then, unfortunately, as Minister, I cannot act directly. I'd like to say it again. Public powers are those conducts performed as a public authority - conducting professional examinations, keeping a directory and granting licences. There are no complaints about this part. Complaints shall refer to the subject matter relating to the tariff conditions. Indeed, and here is the open question that the existing building law allows us to also draw up a draft minimum tariff conditions. That's right. And it is necessary to say that the procedure has not been completed here, nor is it because it was based particularly on the opinions of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, but here you are right, such a rule could also mean higher prices. That's why the procedure didn't end here. What does that mean? This means that the partial question is open. One way is to go through changes to the building law. And another way we've begun to think seriously is the law that is included in the work programme that I'm running this year, this is the law about, in part, the authorized architects and engineers. I have met with one chamber, and I will meet with the other in a short time, and both of you want to participate actively in this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you. Procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u209	In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Minister's reply be discussed in the National Assembly for the following reason. The fact is that I have made it very clear that there is a direct link between the powers conferred by the Chamber on the basis of the building law, between the statute of the Chamber, which is the exercise of these powers or this law, the tariff rule adopted in the Chamber and also the disciplinary regulation. All these four documents with a master document, a building law, by the Ministry's failure to approve the tariff rule, but the tariff rule has been published on the website of the Chamber of Architecture and Space. It has been published and they consider it a valid full-fledged document. So I'm going to give a concrete example of what's going on. It happens that the Chamber sends circular letters threatening individual companies involved in designing to be deprived of their license because they are in breach of the tariff rule. I can also provide you with this if you want to see what kind of letters individual architects receive. And at the same time, I have to tell you that, let's say in recent months, we have received offers from designer houses, which we are giving us for a completely simple change in the spatial implementation act of 5 million tolars, and when we say, listen, you've fallen on your head, they say, yes, the chamber will take away our license if we don't charge such a tariff. This is said to be the reason to discuss this answer so that the Slovenian public will know what is going on in the market for architecture and space. I think it would be very appropriate, even though I know that this proposal will be rejected tomorrow, and that is why I do not intend to insist on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u210	Mrs. Pečanova, what is now: Are you insisting on the proposal or not? If you do not insist, you have violated the rules of procedure, which is incorrect on your part. But, uh, so you won't admit it for the first time. It's beautiful. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Fari Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, Minister of Respect, Honourable Fellows and Honourable Fellow! I'll save you some time in the late hours, and I'll cut back on the whole explanation. The applicants and some mayors from Pomurj reminded me of the difficulty in running for funds on the basis of calls from the Slovenian Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development in 2005. According to the above data, an amount of EUR 800 million was available for the purpose of investing in agricultural holdings in the first invitation to tender. A total of 263 applications were submitted, of which 62 applications were positively resolved, only 690 million funds were spent, leaving a billion unutilized 110 million tolars. The second tender only received 82 applications, including additional restrictions on agricultural areas owned by the farm or leased under official leases. They say that the reason for falling interest and poor use is also in the often bureaucratic relationship of some officials of the Agency when they reject applications because of minor shortcomings instead of requiring additions, additional clarifications and the like. This is particularly problematic for Pomurje. Only 36 applications have been submitted, only 12 have been positively resolved. Experts estimate that there could be a positive solution to the 28 applications which could be dealt with in a more arbitrary manner. Another problem is supporting the implementation of EU programmes to achieve EU standards on farms. This year's program, as I'm informed, is not continuing. I ask the Minister: What is he going to do to make the Agency's situation better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you for the question. Mrs. Lukačič, I ask you for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. That's actually a burning question. You mentioned the numbers they actually hold. However, the fact is that the Agency had a European inspection prior to this call, where the same programmes were monitored. And the method used in these checks was then used by the Agency to control or review the requests made at this invitation. The fact is that we have to make use of all the resources available to us this year. Therefore, in early April, as I mentioned earlier, we are preparing a new call for a billion tolars. In order not to repeat the situation in previous calls, we have agreed, the agency, the chamber and the ministry, that we will carry out at least two thorough trainings for the preparers of this documentation and that we will establish an information office where the open questions regarding the call will be coordinated daily, which I think is the only way that the funds will also be distributed. We were thinking of setting up a commission to review any programme submitted by farmers, which would not be possible from a legal point of view at the time of the call. We will make sure that, in the event that this is necessary, we call on people to supplement them in accordance with the law on legal procedure. We have analyzed the most common errors that document preparers have learned, so that these mistakes will be better warned and corrected. As regards the second measure, it is a measure to support the implementation of EU standards on agricultural holdings. The Ministry launched an EU standard measure in 2004 and 2005. In 2004, it submitted a request for 25,733 farms and in 2005, 25,997 farms, totalling 51,730 farms worth 24 billion tolars. The European Commission has given us €42.6 million by decision, which is a poor 10 billion. This means that from our own budget we will still have to provide all the missing funds. This meant that it was not possible to recommence the measure in this year, given that we are already determined to settle commitments for 2004 in 2006 and for 2005 in 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you. Complementary question. Here's your friend, Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you for a thorough and promising answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u216	I'm going to continue with the list of applicants. On the 30th list of applicants is Ambassador Franz Kangler. He's not in the hall. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. Ambassador Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question. Since the Minister is not present between us, I ask you, will you ask the question first, and secondly, how do you want the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally agreed with the Minister of the Beast that I would ask the question of the mission and expect a written answer from the Minister. The question is: What are the reasons why the Ministry of Education and Sport for the next school year did not call for parallel secondary music education at schools in Celje, Koper and Velenj while it did so in Ljubljana and Maribor? A brief explanation of the matter. Members are addressed to parents of secondary schools who visit or intend to attend parallel secondary music education in music schools in the coming years. They are students who attend different other secondary schools and at the same time continue or intend to continue their schooling in the music school after their primary music education. Such an opportunity for education will only be available in Ljubljana and Maribor in the future, which for many students due to remoteness is out of the question, so the result is that they will be forced to stop their music education, and that is probably what no one wants with such talent and joy for music creation. I am also disturbed by the unequal treatment of individual areas of Slovenia, which leads back to centralisation. As it is said, the agreement is also, I expect the Minister for Education and Sport to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you. You will, of course, receive a written answer. As a rule, I should like to thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for the answers given. This also interrupts this agenda item. We are adjourning the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. on the basis of the agreement of the College. Until then, say good-bye.
