ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Branko Grims, Christian Janc, Joseph Jerovšek, Drago Koren, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Alojz Sok. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - Third defense of the proposal for a law on economic societies. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Since October, when the Government has submitted a proposal for a company law to the National Assembly for consideration, 1 and until today, the State Assembly has, after eight amendments to the Company Act, for the first time, considered and discussed the substance of this Act very thoroughly for the first time. Throughout the general debate, a public presentation of opinions and a debate on the Committee on the Economy and the National Assembly, a further and better proposal has been drawn up in recent months. The Law on Economic Companies - often also referred to as the Economic Constitution or the Constitution of the economy - is extremely important for economic operators and for the further development of the economy and thus for the further development of Slovenia. Therefore, it is even more important for such systemic and certainly one of the key material laws to pay sufficient attention and to devise the best possible solutions. Throughout the whole process, the applicant followed very seriously the comments and proposals made by Members, stakeholders and interested professionals on a proposal from the law. The thoroughness of the joint work also represented an extraordinary number of amendments formulated and adopted within the Economic Committee. We believe that we have achieved an even better consistency and legal system of law, which provides more consistent and qualitatively the purpose of its provisions. We have paid particular attention to solving the most exposed topic in the context of addressing this law, which is the resolution of workers' participation in a single management system. On the basis of a public presentation of opinions and with the cooperation and support of all stakeholders, and in particular on the basis of coordination with trade unions - I would like to point out here the solidarity union and the alternative union - a compromise proposal was finally drafted in the bill, which was positively adopted. All the provisions in this regard are laid down among the transitional provisions so as to achieve nomotechnical alignment with the type of amendments of the groups of Members. However, we would like to point out once again that the purpose of the relocation is not to delete these provisions completely, but rather to clarify the nature of the temporaryity of their regulation in this law, pending the adoption of the relevant amendments to the law governing the participation of workers in management. Given that this solution has also been supported by interested representatives of employers and employers, we believe that further amendments are a step away from agreed and widely coordinated solutions. In addition, I would like to point out that, at the time of the adoption of the Company Act, 1 together with the representatives of the economy, we have also reached appropriate solutions for the application of the balance sheet provisions for companies and entrepreneurs in 2006, since it was originally envisaged that the law would enter into force with 1.1.2006, which is not possible, and in these transitional periods we have also settled this void. In doing so, the proposer made clear, within the competent committees, the importance of implementing these provisions as quickly as possible, since they are already interfering with the current business year and the further extension of their application would constitute an obstacle to economic operators and an obstacle to legal certainty. The regulatory framework for the implementation of the euro transition for capital companies, or the redefination of equity, also gives an important emphasis to the possibility of facilitating the implementation of the transition already this year. We therefore reiterate the importance of the early adoption of the Company Act 1. I certainly believe that the proposal for a company law 1 for a third reading is a very quality legal text and we hope that users of the law in the economic environment will be able to benefit from the benefits and benefits of these solutions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the full floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present my views on the draft law. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law in the third reading and will focus on explaining the additional arguments in the amendments tabled in Article 702, which is due to the efforts made so far and to a compromise proposal also by the proponents. We still believe that it is a single business management system, a solution such as now, for some more radical intervention and does not allow all employees or workers in Slovenia to be in an equal position to participate in companies. Therefore, once again, we will concentrate on the amendments and try again to argue that it is good for workers with a single system to have the same constitutional right as they have in a dual management system to enable all workers to manage businesses. During the last week in this Chamber, we have repeatedly advocated equality before the law on war veterans, and in the media law we have talked about the right to correction and opposition. Participation of workers in the supervisory work of the Management Board is in some way a co-participating, in some way an opportunity to object to development policy and corporate governance. We'll focus on the amendments, and we'll support the law, and that won't be an obstacle to contradicting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor and will give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	Well-welcome, presiding, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that the third treatment of the company law is before us today, it is not too much to say that, after the government submitted it to the national assembly, we held a general debate in November, in January, a public presentation of the opinions, then a debate on the economic committee and a second hearing here in the national assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is entirely justified that all stakeholders involved in the whole process of drafting an important law, such as that which constitutes a constitution of the economy, are involved. We are pleased that the drafter of the law has devoted so much attention to such important systemic and certainly one of the key material laws. Beneficiary and useful proposals were included in the material, including those submitted by the public concerned or by interested groups. Therefore, a large number of amendments were also presented at the meeting of the parent working body, of which many were also accepted. That is how we today have in our third reading a law that we can say is good. We can say that we have not written a law just to synchronize Slovenia's legal order in this area with the European one, but that law, among other things, allows better conditions for companies to operate. The law offers opportunities to adapt to modern business trends. It simplifies and reduces obstacles to the business of companies. All of this is very important for the development of the Slovenian economy. The new Company Act contains seven content sets, two in corporate regulation introduces a novelty, namely a European Shareholder Society and a single management system for a share company. The other content sets regulate harmonisation for the introduction of the euro, the transposition of certain provisions of the Act on takeovers in the company law, the renewal of the rules of the independent entrepreneur and the limited liability society. However, in the latter part, there is a definition of modifications to other definitions. In addition, particular emphasis was placed on resolving the participation of workers in a single management system. With the support of stakeholders, the proposer has drawn up a compromise proposal, which was very positive in the context of and outside the public presentation. All the provisions in this regard are laid down among the transitional provisions, where this is only a temporary solution until the law governing the participation of workers in management is adequately supplemented. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed amendments relating to this content, or 702.a., or after the new 703rd article, we have already discussed this subject extensively in the National Assembly. Why don't we support them? Much effort has been made and the proposed compromise solution has been supported by representatives of workers, employers and other institutions involved. We like to call it "I gave him a finger and now he wants his whole hand." In this case, not just a finger was offered, but a hand, and the players mentioned above reached into their hands. A comparable standard has been achieved with the Member States of the European Union. We therefore consider that co-decision between workers in the single system is adequately resolved in this law. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian People's Party we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! In its introduction, the Minister highlighted the equation between the company law and the economic constitution. Here. The Company Act is, in any way, the basis, the Constitution and, above all, the act that proves or identifies possible transactions, but unfortunately, at least according to our assessment, there are still far too many things left out in this proposal for a company law. The consequences of this inadequacy are felt, at least according to our assessment, in the lives of companies, in the survival of companies and not least in the context of the state budget. In his opening presentation, the Ministry of Economy, or better said Minister of Economy, praised or said that in this proposal, both the proposals or the views of individual parliamentary groups or political parties were incorporated into the company law and that the proposal reached agreement with all those who expressed interest and individual solutions. Well, that's not what we think. We are convinced that the Ministry has also made this law, following established practice, only through the moment of individual negotiations with companies. I would therefore like to point out from this place the 18th time the claims made to define them in the company law. Eighteen times exposed by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group in the course of discussions under various laws, there will be a law on takeover, a law on anti-competition and tax and non-tax revenues. The fact is that the law before us today still allows for the simultaneous registration of two companies. The law still does not prohibit the simultaneous organisation of two companies. According to our assessment, this is one of the biggest deficits of this law and the deficits that the economy has behind it, especially in those companies or companies where the state still has its share, in relation to those companies that operate with the country. The fact is that capital companies, if taken as an example of a share company, can still be organised for each business or for the whole range of their activities and also statutoryly defined both on the basis of the company law, which is correct, as well as on the basis of the law on public companies. And here the whole logic of the implementation of the company law ceases. As the name tells us, companies are engaged in an economic activity with a view to making profits or profits. Therefore, it is totally inappropriate for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit such companies from carrying out a public economic activity which is aimed at something purely different than profit-making. It is the provision of a public service. Why public? In the name and sense of satisfying the public interest. It is probably clear to all of us, however, that the exercise of a profit-based business objective is not the same, or that it is fighting with another objective pursued by the law on public companies, i.e. the satisfaction of some public interest of citizens and citizens. If, on the basis of the first law on companies, individuals are established or linked with a view to seeking profit, this cannot be in the interest or in accordance with another law. It is therefore inadmissible for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue to tolerate such an anomaly after 18 times in this law. According to our assessment, the consequences of this activity are also reflected in the state budget. And if I first relate to public finances as a consequence of this anomaly and only later will I touch upon the damage caused to direct companies, or directly to companies established under another law, I should be allowed to start a classic budgetary or public financial debate. We all know that the outflow of the budget or the loss, the outflow of public finances is a dual organisation of enterprises, a double statutory organisation of enterprises - a capital company and a public company. Every time we meet with public finances in the form of a budget or a rebalancing, there has been a tendency to increase tax revenues, not after they have been reduced, and to increase tax revenues. The Minister seeks such negative public finances. I can say this with certainty, given that he did not incorporate this into this law after eighteen warnings. In my opinion, it would be inappropriate to expect that a parliamentary group, whether a national party, DeSUS, the Liberal Democracy, anyone, will approach a comprehensive amendment of the company law, just as the Minister originally announced that this is the constitution of the economy. It would be expected, however, that the government, when it has been predicting for years and years a change to the new Constitution or the company law and that the government, in its opening act, does not, in so far as it claims and ensures that this law constitutes a consensus of all those ideas that contribute to the resolution of the economic situation, to the situation in the field of public finances, incorporates the most important element that reflects in all areas of our lives and in the field of the lives of individual economic societies. Why is that? Many say that because too many state or government companies are registered through both laws. In order to help them, on the one hand, within a minus period, which they demonstrate because of the fact that they have a real advantage, the State can pass through the principles of a share company or through the value of the shares. The State of the Republic of Slovenia is losing to this account. And this is also one of the elements why the transformation of businesses in our country is taking place so slowly and so very untransparent. Why we have reached a large number of people in our small country who have become rich overnight. This would make sense in this law. But neither the previous government nor this government was prepared to take this step. This clearly proves that it is not in the interest of, unfortunately, these governments, too, to make changes to prevent such anomalies in the economic field of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's more than sad. This will bring or already bring and enable an ever stronger lobby between government policies on the one hand, in conjunction with economists on the other. And if all of us have spoken all the time before a year and a half ago for at least 30 days, as long as the election campaign lasts, then this law should reflect the solution that such matters do not take place, or that they are not legalized, because the fact is that once this has been allowed in this law, they have received all the legal support that they are doing so in the future. And we all know that the Economic Society Act is one of those laws that is subject to a very small number of changes, especially when we are talking about a larger set of changes. Do you have anything to say? I see you're hiding in the back. Thank you, then. This is not like the law on local self-government, where we complete or amend the law 15 times a year or 10 times a year. In fact, the Law on Economic Companies is the Constitution of the economy and it is therefore necessary, whenever it changes, to include all those components that experience exposure through the media by each and every one of us. Hereinafter, I would like to point out another flaw in this law that is before us today. According to our assessment, the Company Act should also have a chapter demonstrating the functioning of concessions or concession services as part of an economic activity. It is true that concessions would deserve their own law, that is, the Act on Accession Activities, which, at least according to my information, was planned to enter the National Assembly. The plan is defined in the 1998 Government Work Programme, further in 1999, 2000 and is also defined in the Government's work programme under the Coalition Treaty. But in this law, this area of operation of companies would earn their place. Why, personally or within the National Party's Group, we attach so much importance to the field of concessions and why we criticise the government that it is not prepared to regulate the concession in legal form or that concessions are implemented through legal acts. As a rule, only the State or the local community may have a concession or a monopoly on concession. As a rule, no one else should have this monopoly. Everything else isn't real concessions. And the country here is losing that non-taxable part of its revenue again because it partially introduces in different areas its rules, which are partial in terms of each area and with regard to interested parties in concession activities. This is obviously the only reason that we still do not have a concession law in our country and that the concession area provided by the company law is null and void. We have said several times that, on the part of our country's non-taxable budget or public finances, it represents less than 7% of all revenue, meaning in other words that 93% of all revenue consists of tax revenues. But the concessional revenues that lie on the country's hands, transparent revenues, would increase the country's share of 7% of budget revenues by 6%, so they would be at 13%. 13% of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Why are we moving away from this? In exchange for the increase in non-tax revenue, tax revenues would be reduced, which means that it would not be necessary to increase tax or introduce a new tax or new tax on the basis of the end of each meeting of the Government of Slovenia. I therefore find it incomprehensible from this city that the Ministry of Economy is this part of the completeness of the substance, the emphasis on the substance, has been omitted from this law, especially under the assumption of a common nominator, which the Minister has given at the outset, I reiterate once again that this is the constitution of the economy, which should cover from A to Z all the elements. Why those elements that enable corruption in the economy are released from this law. The easiest example of friendly or political business in relation to the economy is possible in both the criticisms I have raised under this law. Thus, in the same status form of an individual company, when no one knows or does not want to know on which article any business is to take place: either on the basis of an Article of the Company Act or on the basis of an Article of the Public Companies Act, which is completely different because it monitors different solutions, solutions to public interest and does not solve the search for profits. On the other hand, those transactions which are of full interest both in the field of local communities and in the field of the State to the acquisition of the budget funds on the one hand or at the expense of the budget losses on the other hand, these are concessional activities. The fact is, some local communities have settled such matters in their own way. Many are very good, which is to congratulate these local communities. They also identified some of the activities they define in their internal acts or local acts, and generally local communities are aware of this and therefore have defined so-called direct and indirect concessions. Direct those where the existence of a specific infrastructure or the interest of the individual local community, who will be the operator of this concession, and other concessions which are, in the municipality's view, of interest to the budget, are concessions awarded on the basis of tenders. Why am I saying this? This is because municipalities with a good mayor who ensure that such income occurs in local budgets have done so. The most typical example of very profitable concessions, in which municipalities usually endure much in exchange for taking less in other areas, is advertising. And if local communities are willing to do this to relieve their citizens and citizens, why is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not ready to do so to burden its citizens and citizens? And if we had a wonderful opportunity to legally define this matter, it was, in my opinion, until the third hearing. There is no doubt that the law will be adopted, but it will be adopted without both the basic arguments or the moments that we are facing and which are always before the video series at the hearings of the groups of Members. However, when it is necessary to define the matter in the law, it is no longer at one time. In view of the fact that I am ahead of time, I would like to touch just one more part, which, at least in my opinion, is very important, this is the fifth chapter within the framework of business secrets and the ban on competition. The fact is that by entering the European Union market on 1 May 2004, Slovenia was given at least a paper right to be an equal market partner in the new market of the European Union. And in my opinion, this fifth chapter on the prohibition of competition should reflect a new situation, because if a company had a monopoly in the Republic of Slovenia and if we broke this monopoly because we said it was not economic or marketable, the question is whether it is still a monopoly on the new market, which is a few hundred times stronger, richer and more competitive than our country's market. In my opinion, not anymore. And instead of the government of the Republic of Slovenia making sure that we get strong companies, Slovenian companies, on the new market of the European Union, trying to break them down in this chapter. Why break it? Unfortunately, this government also sees the only possibility for the Slovenian economy to progress in the search for market niches, not in producing something new, but only in finding the production of a state of a minimum product that does not make sense to others. In my opinion, according to the National Party's Group's assessment, this fifth chapter, in spite of the particular areas that speak of competition, the prevention of restrictions on competition and market integration, would deserve a different basic vision, namely a vision that would encourage large companies, strong companies that will not only be large in our country, but will also be large in the new European market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The fact that the Law on Economic Companies is necessary or necessary for us to adopt it as soon as possible has sent a notary fact, and it does not have to be specifically prophetic in order to identify or predict that the law will be adopted today. Nor does it need to be a prophet to see ahead of time that the amendments proposed will not be accepted. In the DeSUS Group, however, we do not consider that amendments are entirely unworthy of further consideration. We believe that it is in the direction of increasing participatory rights, increasing workers' rights, and therefore there is no particular doubt on our part that it would be good to do so also because the power on the side of work and knowledge is certainly not the same as the power on the side of capital, and this is the power of influence and the ability to inform and co-ordinate workers in the law itself. The law, however, reflected a good decade of its history, reflected what had happened to us in these circumstances, and also reflected the whole process of integrating our society into European ties. Unfortunately, this long - term process is also burdened with many irregularities, confusions, including abuse, distortions, with a variety of things that we would rather not know and experience. If someone tried hard to get a compendium of these abuses, frauds, deceptions, and the ability to apply legal standards in a particular way, those who read such a grant would probably feel like they're holding onto a wire under electrical tension all the time, so intense would be this reading. It is understandable to take on those who are seeking to increase rights in relation to participation, because the impact of workers and all employees and small shareholders has been very often played out. Trials to defend something that has been achieved are probably justified. In its amendment from the first draft, the current law has taken much into account, which has been transmitted as a comment, and this is also a kind of recognition to the Ministry that it has been cooperative both to the comments of individual experts, to the public hearing, to the fact that some very important amendments have been adopted. And maybe it would show this openness to keep going. This openness to communication by the Ministry has been significantly better in this law than in the Trade Act, the Hostage Act or the Economic Chambers Act, which we will discuss further. The proposer showed a certain degree of readiness to improve the basic text and the text is now much better than what they offered at the outset. All the ambitions of those who would like to complement it will probably not be realized. Not everyone will be satisfied, in particular those who advocate more appropriate quotas for workers in management bodies, or those who do not advocate by the economy to participate in more than three supervisory councils, or those who judge that it is wrong, and we also judge between them that some are still privileged monopolies, that they do not have to take part in exchanges in the form of shareholders and have certain advantages in this regard. However, in the DeSUS Group of Members, although we judge that anything else can be fixed, we can see that these preparations will probably be no more, the law as a whole will be supported because it is necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Dearly present, Mr. Minister with fellow workers! There has been a lot of talk about the company law recently in the National Assembly. This law is a fundamental system law in the field of company law in the Republic of Slovenia and is also called the Constitution of the economy. It was publicly discussed in the opinions where the most discussions were held on co-management of employees in shares companies with a single management system. It is our opinion that this has also been properly regulated in the process of adopting that law. The proposal for a new company law has been launched primarily for reasons of adapting to European law and introducing innovation. Essential changes are needed. The law now in force was passed in 1993 and has so far experienced eight novelties. This means that it is obsolete at certain points. Slovenia is temporarily lagging behind in the implementation of the important supranational institute of a European shareholder company. The deadline for the regulation has expired and is already late with the introduction of this institute. When Slovenia is included in the ERM 2 exchange rate system and in order for the Republic of Slovenia to introduce the euro as a means of payment, it is essential that this content be implemented into the corporate and share arrangements of companies. It is now proposed that an additional option be put in place by a share company. The law also introduces a single decision-making system in shares companies, meaning that the administrative and supervisory authorities are integrated into one decision-making and control body. So far, we've known a two-tier system in stock companies. Minority shareholding is also considered. It is an institute of expulsion and exit from a company with the aim of protecting a small shareholder. It also provides for the possibility of transforming an entrepreneur, a natural person, into a legal person, a capital company. This was some of the news that the proposed law brings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that this proposed law significantly improves the business environment. The proposed law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Of all the applicants I had on the list, only Mr Stane Pajk, who was just before the speaker, remained in the Chamber and I ask you whether you want to discuss. Thank you very much. I give my word to a government representative if he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I would like to point out just two things. The first is that the subject of economic public services and the award of concessions is the subject of the second law. The Law on Economic Public Services is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space and is under discussion on the design. We are also aware that upgrades are needed, complementing these solutions, but this is an area that is not regulated by the Company Act. Why not? The basic purpose of this law is also defined by the terms covered in Article 3, namely, under this law, an economic company is a legal person who independently manages a profitable activity as an exclusive activity on the market. That says everything that's part of this marriage. And economic public services are not part of this law, and they never were, and they are, and they are regulated in another law. And mixing these two together and saying that this law does not regulate that problem is logical, of course, because this law is not intended to regulate that problem. Finally, no good proposal could be tabled by the Slovenian National Party in its amendment form in the course of the whole discussion. And, of course, it is difficult then to take into account their proposals, which are in principle questionable or unacceptable. There were also several other minor dilemmas listed, but we have never received them from the National Party in the amendment form. Of course, we have received a series of amendments from the National Party, which mainly referred to the participation of workers in management, and I think we have resolved this issue comprehensively and well. Once again, I stress that the provisions covered by the transitional provisions on the participation of workers in management are also an upgrade of the basic text on the basis of a compromise with representatives of the trade union party, in particular with representatives of solidarity and alternative. I would point out that after the proposed text in the third reading, because I see that there is still a dilemma, one and only very clear. This is the fact that workers always have a representative in the single management system, a representative in the board of directors, even if it is the smallest possible form of the board of directors, it is a three-member board of directors, it has one representative and there is one additional one for every three representatives. That's one in three members, two in six, three in nine. And with such a solution, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia also agreed. Thus we have taken an important step forward and I think that the text is therefore better quality than it was before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 30.3.2006. You have received a review of the amendments, three amendments to Article 703 of the Social Democrats' Group. I am putting to the debate Article 703 and the three amendments of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Notwithstanding the amendment of Article 702.a, which is a compromise proposal, and now Article 703, which is in the new proposal, we still insist in some way on clarity and that the matter should not be prejudged when the Ministry of Labour, the family, will prepare this solution with additions, a new law on the participation of workers in management, which is announced for the month of May, so that all workers in companies with a single and two-tier system will be in an equal position. This week we have talked a lot about the need for all to be equal before the law, and the basic intention of our three amendments, which binds to Article 703, is in this direction. And the first amendment concerning the second paragraph, we still insist that workers have the right to elect at least one third of the members of the Governing Board. This is a very clear lecture, and the minister said in an additional explanation, the three members of the board are 1, is 1/3, 6 is 2, is 1/3 again, 9 is 3, is 1/3 again. We don't see any reason why we shouldn't write this diction clearly - 1/3. This 1/3 of the statutory representations on the board of directors have, and we have repeatedly given, for example, Denmark and Norway. Those who say that there are no such comparisons or do not have equivalent arrangements in other countries. There is no fear that in the boards of directors, with this unitary dictatorship, workers will gain a majority or predominance in the board of directors. There is no such fear, for scissors and linen are in the hands of those who will prepare internal acts in society on the basis of this GHS and the law on the participation of workers in the exercise. It can never happen that workers have a majority over capital owners on boards. In the third paragraph, in a company where more than 5 employees are involved, the Management Board shall appoint at least one Executive Director, acting in accordance with the provisions of the law and so on, on a proposal from the Council of Workers. We still believe that this third paragraph of Article 703 of the compromise proposal, the working representative of the board of directors of a company with more than 500 employees, is automatically appointed as Executive Director, means that representatives of workers lose one member of the board of directors. Therefore, in our view, this proposal is not acceptable because workers in this way automatically lose their representative in that non-executive part of the Governing Board. However, the important point of participation of workers in co-participating is their representation in this non-executive part of the board of directors, in this supervisory function, in the function of strategic management, while their representation or participation in the function of ongoing management is less important. We therefore insist that a member of the Management Board be appointed as Executive Director in order to obtain an alternate member of the other member to the Management Board. And the third amendment to the compromise proposal when it comes to the participation of workers in the bodies of companies called medium-sized companies. I have previously served with data that we have in Slovenia 198 so-called small companies. Our test has shown that more than 100 of these small companies with 50 employees now have a supervisory board in more than 100 years. With this Article, this compromise proposal, as it is written, loses this right in these companies to participate in a co-participating board. They automatically lose that right. We therefore propose that, if this restriction must already exist, and I again point to equality before the law, because it is almost 200 entities that most of these rights remain. Therefore, we propose micro to 10 if it is already that in those entities where up to 10 employees, we do not give them this right legally. Where they have 48, 49 and so far had a supervisory board, why would they not be able to have a representative of their own if the owners decided to be single? Just as a diction is now written, that means they do not have their own representative in nearly 200 entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	He has a word, Mr. Pike. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party, our parliamentary group does not support these amendments, because we believe that there is a member of the stock company with a two-tier management system. It has two functions - administrative and supervisory. Clearly, this is some compromise between what workers would like and what owners or administrators would want. The fact is that it is best if all the articles are satisfied, I mean from the management function to the employees in the company. If everyone is satisfied, it is also the greatest productivity. This satisfaction is also at the expense of all, because it can be paid more because it is earned more, and also at the expense of owners, who also have profits or profits from the invested capital. The fact is that compromises must always be sought in life, and I think that such a proposed way is a good compromise. Compromise with compromise - in principle no one is satisfied. It is necessary to look at the problem from all the points of view, and if we also look at it from the acceleration of development, and I think that it is simply such a system that is now being proposed, okay. I understand the Social Democrats that they are advocating for extended rights, their commitment is legitimate and it is right to take sides, but we think that this is already satisfactory and balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Look. All solutions are weighing, always between the rights of one and the other. We want to create, in particular, an economy-friendly regulatory environment for business and, at the same time, taking into account the rights of workers to co-manage this company. I find it very difficult to understand anyone in this room who is interfering with the standard, which is actually agreed by the unions, the representatives of the employees. For this solution, we have the agreement of the unions. And I think that this day is an important signal that the provision within the meaning of the transitional provision, the participation of workers in management, is a sufficient and satisfactory standard recognised by the workers' associations. Throughout this debate, we have disputed all these solutions that have been exposed today. And if we're talking about Article 703, the second paragraph, the dilemma is one third or one third to one half. From that initial proposal, we have upgraded the solution to the extent that workers in this board of directors have one third and not more than one third. This means that, in the case of a three-member board of directors, one is, in the case of a four-member board of directors, one is, in the case of a five-member board of directors, two are, in the case of a six-member board of directors, two, in the case of an eight-member board of directors, three, and so on. And that's the key difference between yours and our proposal. Once again, this proposal is agreed with the representatives of the employees, and it is right that we also respect agreement and harmonisation. It is not true that this standard deviates from other standards, particularly in Scandinavian countries. It is difficult to compare Denmark, which has a two-tier system, with this proposal, which applies to a single system. Consider, however, the case of Finland, which has a single management system with a control body option in the management body, a total number of employees designated by the agreement, but if this agreement is not available, a quarter in the management or control bodies or in the management groups, and in companies with more than 150 employees. So it's significantly lower than this one here, significantly lower. That's a deal, if there's no deal, one-quarter, and that's only where there's over 150 employees. The same is true elsewhere. In Sweden, they have management in a single management system [[?]] protected by two and not one third of the workers' representatives. And I wouldn't mention the Baltic state or any other country. I think this standard is somewhere on the European level. As far as the threshold is concerned, that is to say, regarding this fifth paragraph. Here we have set a threshold with other limits that are set. This is said to be not the case for small companies, that is 50 employees. For example, in Finland it is 150, Slovakia 50, Czech Republic 50, Luxembourg 1,000. And from this title, this standard is completely comparable, if not somehow superstandard. The only thing we found was in Sweden 25. And you go here to 10, which means an essential, different solution. In short, what I would like to report as a matter of principle. The solution is to weigh between employers and employees and, as proposed, to be consistent with workers. And I think it's a guarantee enough that it's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kumer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I think at the starting point, I'm not going to say we're different, but I'm going to try to answer my colleague Pajk and the minister. I get the feeling, in some way, that when we weigh workers' participation or co-participation here, that the presence of workers on boards or two-thirds of the supervisory boards poses an obstacle to management, a further vision of this company. Of course, I see things the other way around, and this is also a so-called European practice. Let this go through co-participating in the division of profits, let this be through participation in the so-called labour market and, last but not least, co-participating in the management of enterprises. Symbiosis between the owner, between the manager and most living forces, which represents the so-called working group, means plus, means plus for development, vision, belonging to the company and so on, and I don't see any major obstacles here. Speaking of a single management system and a board of directors, we need to speak clearly. The Management Board can and will most likely have, will consist of two parts, it will have so-called administrative and supervisory, it will have executive and non-executive members of the Management Board, as far as we are concerned. And this third, of course, means in the unexecuted part of the Governing Board, in that supervisory part of the Governing Board. We're not talking about that management function or anything. With the third or second amendment in the third paragraph we try in those over five hundred, but I think it is over 40 in Slovenia to correct that if it is already going to be part of the Executive Director, that, of course, workers in this non-executive receive a substitute for this member, who has become director, the so-called Labour Director. And then there's the third one. I don't know how it's possible for a constitutionally guaranteed right that workers have, by law, to take it away from them. Once again, I recall the power to withdraw the right to participate in the management of the company with 50 employees. If we want to do this legally, given the Slovenian situation, I agree, but we're going to the Swedish model, and it's 25. But I have given the case of almost 200 companies with 30 to 50 employees, up to 30 to 50 and over 100 now have a supervisory board in the double system. Under this law, workers no longer cooperate in these over 100 companies if owners choose to do so. And the owners will read the marriage. That is why we propose that, if it has to be micro, not small businesses, but micro-enterprises, which means up to 10 employees. Once again, I propose and point out the discussion that we have had all week now, we are talking about equality before the law, we are talking about all the options that a young person must have, people must have in various other matters, but when we are talking here in the management of businesses, I feel like something is interfering with us and we are seeing it mainly from some negative side.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dear visitors, welcome to the National Assembly! We continue the debate. Mr Petan applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. So this debate is welcome, but I think we need to forget a little bit about certain thought patterns from the past. This is particularly true because there has been a lot of talk lately about severe competition from the East, well, the synonym is China, there is talk about China, but it is Asia and areas where there is very cheap labour and where workers are said to have no rights. No more rights are a fine word. We know that there are also children working there in impossible situations, there is no way to talk about working conditions. But the fact is, the products that come from there are competitive, are cheap, and people are buying them or buying them. So, we can't go public now and talk about how nice it is if someone can talk about something so you can co-operate. I agree with that, I agree with that, but there has to be some clever limit to the situations that are currently in the world. At that time, globalisation is only valid if you are cheaper or more competitive and we will buy it. The fact is, we no longer have a Berlin wall to close our borders. We know that the world trade organisation also has its influence and its power, so that the internal market cannot be closed, we must be competitive and flexible, but I am thinking mainly of flexibility, competitiveness may be a little bit in the second phase. And if you ask the employees, everyone will say that they are satisfied with the company where it is successful, in that company where they have good wages and in that company where they see the perspective for the future. It is not essential, however, whether he will be able to have a word in a discussion of a program or one or another, he is interested in receiving a full salary of 1st or 15th or 20th in order to receive one part of the salary in the vouchers, where there will be no social security rights, pension protection and so on. I am in favour of having the maximum rights, as we may have once had, but the time has gone on and we must be aware of it and we must organise ourselves accordingly. We know that there are many in Europe, but Germany is that bright example because it is the strongest economy in Europe. In Germany they also have a lot of problems because of this and the biggest problem in Germany is that they need to reorganise because they need to prepare differently for these challenges of globalisation, but these are resistances to give up something that has already been given to you here, which has been written down, which has been your right, whether it is effective or not. And that's the problem all over Europe. And I support this government proposal, not to say that it may be too loose for me, but gradually it is necessary to get these things to some normal limit, so that we will not continue to do business, but not misinterpret me, I just want to say it in a parable, not catch me by word when I talk about self-governance, because we can talk a lot in fact anyway. But if we had a lot to say about the poor wages of the first or the 20th of the month, it certainly did not help us, important that we are successful and flexible. However, we can only be flexible and successful if the system is as simple as possible, but if we say as little as possible that we can work as easily as possible, we will have much more of it, so I will support this government proposal and not the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike, you have 28 seconds. Please, 28 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you. I'm going to respond quickly because, with my forerunner, Mr. Kumer and I didn't understand each other. We do not see this as an obstacle, co-management, absolutely not, but we are looking at the need to balance things and when all the entities in some company are satisfied, then the position of this company is also the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	I'm going to hear about what I've been discussing, that this is some old sample that's survived. Please, because everything can be legitimate and anyone can label that, but I would like to point out once again that when you talk a lot to some colleagues that we don't understand, because we are from some other times, we have old patterns, but I have a feeling that you don't understand some things that have happened, too. Of course, we now have a different ownership structure, which is the owner who has set up the management structure and we also have in companies an educational structure of employees obviously at some higher level that does not participate, not the first or second, not the owners are not managers, but they know something about the company, they know something about the business, and why we do not give these people an opportunity to manage this supervisory work of the board, I just don't understand it. When we talk about these small businesses, the strategy of the current government and reform measures is, of course, to go from these large companies to these small ones, it is said that the concentration of knowledge of people who will be employees will be greater and why individuals from this structure would not be able to sit directly at a table where they are infinitely decided, but also to express their opinions, their suggestions, their proposals, and they can be accepted or rejected by owners and managers. There's something else about the minister talking about it a lot, the union deal. I would warn, I speak on behalf of all the employees, and you know that there are no unions everywhere, and in these small ones, which I am talking about, I am going to the fifth indent, but they are not in the vast majority, and therefore I am speaking on behalf of all the employees, not only those who are organized, but also the unions with which you say you have reached a compromise. This part that I am talking about, of course, is not quite so pleased with the solutions that are in this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I guess there's been some misunderstandings. Firstly, the Ministry of Economy and Government are aware of the importance and necessity of cooperation, to be well informed and to participate in the management of businesses. Actually, it's a mutual matter. The company cannot be successful, it cannot be good if there is no interaction between administration and employees, if the employees do not feel well in the company, if they are not creative, creative and do not feel that they belong to the company. This is essential today that the company is competitive and that, if it is competitive, it can also be commercially successful. That's beyond a doubt. We have never and never thought about the involvement of workers in the management of obstacles. On the contrary, we think it's welcome. I also believe that many administrations know that. That's why this law sets a minimum standard. If otherwise agreed, this minimum standard may be exceeded. This is not a ban on the participation of workers in management. If an act establishing an agreement between employees and employers also agrees in small companies that workers will be present, they may be present in the Administrative Board and it is clear that this is not prohibited. And as a result, this legal norm does not prevent this, as you have repeatedly pointed out, from preventing it, even though it is now and that it is desired to continue. That's not true. I stress that this minimum standard, which is agreed, is consistent not only with trade unions but also with the representatives of the workers' councils. And actually, when you speak for all the employees, that's not what I would have hoped to say, well, really, because - I don't know if you have any authority to say it on behalf of all the employees, but if they say legitimate representatives of the labour councils, trade unions, otherwise. And workers can't actually participate if they're not organized. They can't even get into these organs if they're not organized. And those who are organized say and insist that this solution is okay. And, please, the principle is always that politics respects the agreement. It respects the agreement, which is then, of course, also applied in this Article 703 of the Company Act. That's one thing. The other thing is that we are now looking at it so that now all societies will go from a two-tier management system to a single system. I'm sure that won't be the case. There will come those who have very clean or, I would say, such ownership that the owners will quickly be able to agree to go to the unit, and this will make it easier for them to manage. But it will be in my opinion that if we talk about small, not only small, but also large and medium-sized societies will be those who have one very strong owner, or two very strong owners, or three very strong owners. Where ownership is dispersed, for example, such as Petrol, Mercator and so on. These companies should not know what to do to raise 75%, to change their statutes or their founding acts, to write these things in and then to follow a single path. In fact, I think that this will be very difficult and that this duality will remain there. We will therefore give an opportunity to those companies which are previously constrained by the current concrete duality in competitiveness, as a result of which they are given a certain advantage. Moreover, in these large companies executive directors and non-executive director. The Executive Director shall be on the Management Board and shall be in. This shall be deemed to be a quota. The Management Board does not have any other than the Management Board. It's the board of directors. And they are counted in this quota and, of course, that is why we want to make this very clear that in this case this matter is covered. And this is this working director, who is also a member of the board of directors. So I don't think there's a dilemma here and that the solutions are consistent and good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	I'll be very brief. In the end, I would like to explain to the Minister when he says who gives me this competence so that I can speak on behalf of all employees. Unfortunately, I am a Member of Parliament, and after one article of the Constitution, I am a representative of the people here. So I can speak for the people. And the employees are the people, so that I have this competence, I have this right to speak for them, even if it's 10 or 20. So if there really was no dilemma, we wouldn't be discussing it today. If only there were no dilemmas. I will, of course, take this as a lease, that the minister here said that it was true with all the unions and workers' representatives that this was coordinated and that they 100% agree with it. Of course, I do not have such information, and at their initiative I am also discussing today, some, not all. Some.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 17.20 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, it's an evocative motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of criminality. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the resolution. Master Zvonko Zinrajh, Secretary of State in the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, fellow Members, distinguished guests. The resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime is a strategic document setting out the objectives and principles for the successful prevention and suppression of crime. The fact is, in a modern society of crime, there is a phenomenon that cannot be completely suppressed, but with appropriate policies and programmes it is somehow manageable to a greater or lesser extent. Criminality is adapted to modern social change and is a step ahead of official state institutions dealing with prevention and repression. The resolution on the national security strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in 2001, has somehow established the main areas and national authorities responsible for comprehensive national security and the resolution is somehow based on this document. With the prevention and suppression of criminality in the Republic of Slovenia, the main focus is the repressive authorities, the police, the state prosecutor's office, individual specialised bodies, such as the Anti-Money Laundering and Customs Office, within their competences and so on. This means that we have dealt mainly with the consequences, but not with the reasons to a sufficient extent that make crime conditional, which certainly cannot produce satisfactory effects. It is important that we have become aware of the importance of preventing crime in recent years, which is the task of all state authorities and organisations, of course, including civil society. So far, public authorities have acted within each of their work areas on the basis of government work programmes and work programmes of a specific resource. The Republic of Slovenia also actively participates in the working bodies of the Council of Europe, the Group of Anti-Corruption Countries, the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, Interpol, Europol and so on. A comparable state of crime, if somehow statistically processed over the past 10 years, would somehow show us that certain crimes have even increased by 100%. In 2005, even in 2005, we can say that this situation is somewhat similar, as police have estimated that the deterioration of the security situation has been observed, which is reflected in a significant increase in the number of crimes, particularly against life and body, burglary, robbery and other crimes. In 2004, the police sent the State Prosecutor's Office a criminal complaint and reports to supplement it for 86,568 crimes, which somehow amounted to 13% more than in the year before. To return to the resolution or proposal and why we decided to do so. In order to ensure effective internal security, the coordinated functioning of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, effective economic policy and relevant policies in social, health, employment, education and other fields is essential. The fight against crime is a planned and targeted process and crime prevention and control activities must be directed in the long run. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for the coordinated participation of all social actors, from state institutions to the family where the primary values and standards are established. Criminality has structural social effects. It fosters confidence in the functioning of state institutions and encourages social conflicts that can lead to extremism. Criminality poses a serious threat to democracy, including in cases of simplification of solutions in the field of prevention and repression, which can allow for different forms of violations of human rights and freedoms and dignity. Social relations must be based on trust, which can contribute significantly to reducing the material and moral damage caused by crime. We therefore believe that public support is needed for the successful implementation of criminal policy. Particular attention should be paid to vulnerable groups and mechanisms for their social integration. In doing so, cultural, religious and other organisations, as well as civil society, have a special role to play in contributing to the culture of dialogue, tolerance and social integration, while also burdening the country in an organisational and financial sense. In addition to the primary socialisation and internalisation of social values in the family, which lays down basic rules of conduct, secondary socialisation at the level of primary school and other institutions in which children are involved must play an important role. The local level is one where interests are most directly reflected and people's initiatives are being implemented. Partnerships at local level can contribute to enhancing security by providing a comprehensive view of security problems and crime. Offenders should be more involved in resocialisation and rehabilitation programmes, which must become a mandatory part of the cessation of criminal offences, particularly in the field of violence. The implementation of return prevention programmes and the provision of alternative enforcement of short-term prison sentences and other preventive activities requires the coordinated functioning of the institutions and the country's partnership with civil society organisations. This also applies to victims of crimes who need specific treatment at all stages of the proceedings. Full assistance to the victim by the State and civil society must be provided, in particular, during the period of overcoming the consequences of crimes. The fundamental objectives of the proposed resolution are somehow narrowed down into three strands. Firstly, to direct the efforts of state institutions and civil society to create circumstances that will enable a high-quality level of individual and social life, thereby reducing crime and ensuring life in a secure environment. Secondly, ensure the coordinated functioning of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of authorities and other institutions, their cooperation with non-governmental organisations or civil society in the design and implementation of a policy to prevent and combat crime. Thirdly, to identify key areas of security policy and to provide guidance in the area of crime prevention and control, thereby creating conditions for the integration of criminal policy into all policies, in particular in the area of crime prevention. The proposed resolution, which is before you today, is based on an assessment of the state of play on criminal policy and the fight against crime, where emphasis is placed on the cooperation of competent state authorities and civil society organisations, as I mentioned earlier. Finally, pursuant to Article 135 of the Police Act, by the end of January 2007, the National Crime Prevention and Suppression Programme, which will set out priorities for the next five-year period, will be established by the end of January 2007 and will assess those tasks financially. The guidelines set out in this resolution, today's proposed resolution, will, of course, be the basis for the development of this national programme, which will operationalise procedures to prevent crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to fellow Members and fellow Members. At its 18th regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. In addition, there is a representative of the proposer, State Secretary of Mag. Zinraj Bell, presented the principles, objectives and main solutions of the proposed act. The motion for a resolution stressed that it is of paramount importance, in particular because of the fact that the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia is to strengthen the rule of law and the social state, to ensure stable economic development, respect for human rights and freedoms and to ensure such a social environment that will have an impact on the reduction of crime. It is estimated that this area has changed significantly over the past 20 years. The representative of the legislative and legal service briefly presented the opinion of this service. With regard to the comment to Article 7 or Chapter 7, which provides for the entry into force of the resolution, which is unusual for such a document and in the opinion of the CFSP, the Ministry has already drawn up a proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which the Committee has also adopted. With regard to the comment on the fourth chapter, which referred to Annex 1, the proposal for an amendment was prepared by the Committee itself and was eventually adopted. In the context of the general debate, they supported, in principle, the motion for a resolution which, within its objective, sets out the principles and objectives in the field of prevention and suppression of criminality, of a legal nature, and it is understandable that the resolution is a somewhat loose document that does not specify values but gives guidance and it also defines them in a transparent and understandable way. The debate also raised the question of the extent to which civil society and the professional public participated in the creation of the document, given that the resolutions were the basis or basis for laws, some felt that a public presentation of opinions would also take place. In this regard, a member of the Committee, Mr Mark Pavlih, who has rejected the Committee, has put forward a concrete proposal, but has supported the common position that we will be invited by the Ministry of the Interior to inform us of the origins of this programme by the expert group working on the national programme. In the light of the general debate and the discussion on the individual parts of the resolution, the representative of the proposer provided answers and clarifications. He stressed that the document had been generated for quite some time and was the result of reflections for several years, as well as systematic and systematic efforts to prevent and suppress crime in such a way as to include all those involved in this part of the national security policy. As stated at the end, the Committee adopted the amendment to Chapter 4 and Chapter 7 and also supported the text of the resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. You also wish to present the position of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	According to the official statistics available to us, there has been a rapid increase in reported crimes. During the twenty-year period, the number has almost doubled and it is difficult for us to go into our heads, but we must admit that humanity is sinking against a crisis, which is a big question of how it will end. We have a relatively high standard of civil rights, personal freedoms, social security and material well-being, but the conduct of a modern man is obviously based on some mistakes. One of them must also be the denial of moral values, the wrong view of the separation of freedom from responsibility, and the separation of rights from duty, including the rejection of conduct by a schooling youth. If we just look at the latest incident in one of the high schools to convict a valuable threat yesterday with a bomb in a Ljubljana court of law. The question for each of us is whether we are going to make an effort and if we are going to be able to implement the new civilisation framework that is needed. There is no help if we fail to be brave for the fundamental changes in the work of both our institutions, the values and the objectives. Indeed, there are several reasons for the drastic increase in reported crimes. On the one hand, there has also been an increase in the awareness of victims of crime, and on the other hand, the security situation has also deteriorated slightly. The criminal structure has also changed, and forms have emerged that we once did not know, such as international organised crime, illegal immigration flows, trafficking in human beings and weapons. The classic crime of crime, especially theft, has tripled. Economic crime and money laundering have increased. Above all, data on road safety seem to be of concern to us in the parliamentary group, as the number of accidents has doubled over the past ten years. We are aware of this and should be even more aware that the particular threat to health and life is ecological crime in the broadest sense. However, national identity is poorer than the various forms of threat to cultural heritage, but the problem is not only in reporting and detecting crimes, but also in prosecution of perpetrators. The method of coordination between the authorities was obviously poorly set aside, leading to unnecessary duplication of tasks and measures. Persecution authorities have dealt with cases too partial, each one taking care of their own kindergarten, as they might call it, and have been without that primary ultimate responsibility for success. In Novi Slovenija we have already warned about this in the past, but especially in Novi Slovenija we warn that it is necessary to take on every responsibility. It often wants to place responsibility on others and, within the framework of the collective, on the part of its co-workers, on its boss, on other bodies. It is important to be aware of the responsibility of each of the participants, from a police officer on the road to a criminalist, to those responsible for their control, and when criminality is being prosecuted, from an individual prosecutor to a prosecutor as an authority. In particular, the responsibility of each individual judge and of the President of the Court is the responsibility of the judicial branch as a whole. Above all, their independence, the status of the autonomous branch of power, also imposes great responsibility on them. The objectives of the resolution, which is ahead of us, point to the position of New Slovenia in the direction of ensuring life in a safe environment and reducing crime. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate that the coordinated functioning of all three branches of government, in particular the relevant policy in the education, social and employment fields, as well as an effective economic policy, is essential to achieving this objective. In the case of New Slovenia, we wish to stress that the role of the public and the media, which are connected between the authorities and citizens, is also important. In particular, we want to define the general principles and strategic objectives on which the future national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime will be based. On the basis of the resolution and the national programme, we want proposals to be prepared to amend existing legislation, or, where necessary, to draft new legislation. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems particularly important to us the time continuity of the linkage of the national programme to the existing resolution. Such a difficult problem can change overnight, but above all it cannot and must not be linked to every single election. The discussions so far have shown that we are all aware that we are dealing with a broad issue and that a wider public debate of experts in this area will also need to be given space. The fact is that crime cannot be completely eradicated, but the emergence of appropriate programmes and policies is manageable. In Novi Slovenija, we are committed to clear guidelines that are understood in the resolution submitted. It is up to us to take one of the steps to help achieve the goals and improve the quality of social life in Slovenia. We'll support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. Criminality is an phenomenon that no society or any state wants. Crimes and crimes can't be prevented. The causes of crime are different and, as a result, crime is difficult to limit, as a whole range of measures are needed that are planned and continued. Today we are considering a motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. In particular, this resolution assesses the state of crime in Slovenia and sets out a fundamental orientation for reducing it. This document in itself will have no positive effects, but in particular constitutes an important basis for the establishment of a national programme and for the implementation of various policies in the field of crime prevention. The objectives of the resolution are good and very clear. As the first objective, the general effort of the country, and in particular of civil society, to create circumstances for a quality level of individual and social life, is mentioned. The objective, as stated, is, of course, worth any support, while it is clear that it can only be achieved through comprehensive economic progress and the quality and development of state institutions and civil society. Above all, there will be much more to be done about the latter. The role of civil society is often highlighted in particular in documents of principled nature. Or, in fact, we are devoting such an important role to civil society, and there is another issue. In our view, civil society must be taken into account in such an important phenomenon when we are talking about crime. The following objectives also underline the role of NGOs. It is necessary to ensure the coordinated functioning of legislation, the executive and judicial branches of government, and in particular to ensure the participation of certain NGOs with these branches of government. Of course, the resolution follows with some concrete proposals. In doing so, it speaks of both curative and preventive measures to reduce crime. At the same time, it notes that all crimes in Slovenia are increasing, especially reports that the proportion of juvenile delinquency is increasing. From day to day, we can witness such and different scenes from the standpoints of minors, juvenile delinquents. Juvenile delinquency is often linked to social marginalisation and a difficult opportunity to achieve education and employment. A key effort, according to the Slovenian People's Party, in addition to the overall improvement of the situation for life in our country should go towards quality preventive measures and strengthening the role of civil society. Preventive measures can be most effective if they are already received by children and young people, as a result, are invested in the future. Someone who, as a young man, did not commit crimes will not, as a rule, later. And where do we see the basic possibility of prevention? The resolution speaks of taking over for quality of leisure. In this regard, it mentions in particular the construction of sport infrastructure. This is undoubtedly very important, but at the same time it cannot be the only way to prevent it. Let me mention information that probably points to the real situation in our country in terms of the relationship between prevention and corruption. It is difficult to understand why the country devotes some 100 million tolars to many, often completely ineffective curative programs for the treatment of various addicts, rather than one million for non-governmental youth organisations. What does a million tolars mean to a non-governmental youth organization in which everything is based on volunteer work? You can ask one of your acquaintances who participate in such organizations. Let me mention once again that we will support the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The resolution before us represents a set of words by which the government presents to us Members how it wants to tackle a particular problem. Crime is certainly a problem in our society. The content and the way this government goes about it is a chapter to itself, and each one of us can imagine it in his own way. We will support such a document in the Slovenian National Party. If we didn't support him, it would look like we're increasing crime in this country. However, we will closely monitor how the government will implement everything written. The document is general, very general, in our opinion too small and gives the impression that we have it here because we are supposed to have it. Above all, the way the government has tackled crime is interesting and would only touch on all the laws on offences that we have dealt with in this National Assembly. There's too much emphasis on the police. They are given too many tasks and responsibilities, which, according to our belief, will not be part of them. Also, the way to solve judicial backlogs through the law on offences is very strange. I do not know why this resolution does not mention the fact that the government will do everything or even adopt a system law that will solve the backlog. Similarly, there is nothing concrete about pedophilia in the resolution. How will the government save pedophilia? If you look at statistics, you see that cases of pedophilia and violence against children in Slovenia increase dramatically. We can't find a solution, we can't find a system law, we can't find a way for the government to solve this problem. We agree, and my predecessor has talked a lot about prevention. Prevention is certainly an important factor in the suppression of crime. But as someone has already said, no one is born a criminal, so conditions must be created through his life, and I think it would be necessary for families, parents to be involved in this preventive role. As I said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Secretary of State! In our opinion, the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sets transparent and understandable guidelines, and we will therefore support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. In our Group's view, the main objective of criminal or more anti-criminal policy cannot be to eradicate it, but rather to keep it within manageable limits. In this respect, we believe that the objectives and principles of this strategic document, on which the entire building of preventive, repressive and also curative action in the field of crime will be built, are based, in a way that will enable their concreteisation in individual laws. Persuading crime is primarily about ensuring the security of people and also of those social institutions that are due to people and their needs and benefits, and therefore this area is one of those belonging to the general national interests. Members of the DeSUS caution that this area should not be a means of political manipulation, of demagogism, of criminalising political conflicts or of politicising criminal matters. All this is negligently effective in fighting for power, but nothing contributes to effective convincing and suppressing crime. Any political party is or will be in power, everyone will have to face the same phenomena and problems. No one has some magic wand for a quick, effective and cheap suppression of crime. In the DeSUS Group, we advocate the view that all together, governments, individual political parties and civil society institutions should take care of the existence and development of values such as tolerance, tolerance, democracy, pluralism, rule of law and the protection of human rights. It is precisely because human rights violations are inevitable that cooperation and the coordinated functioning of the legislative, judicial and executive branches of authorities and all other institutions must be ensured. On the basis of this, we stress once again that efforts to prevent and suppress crime need to give priority to the fundamental legal principles of democratic countries, namely the rule of law and respect for human rights. We believe that, in addition to institutional forms of protection or the fight against crime, such as the legislative and judicial branches of government, it is imperative to enlighten the whole public with a view to raising awareness in people that the smallest offence can lead to worse crimes. Members of the DeSUS Group support all the objectives, principles and orientations of this resolution. However, we expect the Government, in cooperation with all those who could in any way contribute to curbing crime in our society, to prepare for the concreteization of these objectives and principles in individual laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. The resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime is a fundamental document that sets out strategies, objectives and, of course, principles for the successful prevention and suppression of crime. The fact is, in modern society, there is a phenomenon that exists and cannot be completely avoided. To combat crime as successfully as possible, it is not only an effective repressive system that will quickly detect and process perpetrators, but it is also necessary to include a significant measure of preventive action in this system, not only within the framework of police operations, but also in many other areas of social life, which can largely prevent the occurrence of crime from occurring, but also in many other areas of social life, which can also prevent the occurrence of situations where crime occurs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will adopt the proposed resolution, as it provides a good basis for concrete regulatory and operational regulation of the area of combating many emerging forms of crime. By preventing and suppressing crime so far, in the Republic of Slovenia, repressive authorities from the police, the state prosecutor's office and individual specialised authorities, such as the Anti-Money and Customs Office, have done their utmost to prevent money laundering and customs, within their competences of course. This means that the state has dealt mainly with the consequences and not with the causes of crime, which certainly has not been able to produce satisfactory effects. It is important, however, that in recent years there has been an awareness of the importance of crime prevention, which is the task of all state authorities and civil society organisations. Without appropriate cooperation in this area, greater progress will not be possible. It is a matter of establishing such guidelines and measures, which, together with educational, social and other factors, will create a favourable living environment in which there will be as few possibilities as possible for the emergence of various phenomena of excellence and circumstances that create the most conditions for the occurrence of criminal acts. The public authorities in the field of crime prevention and repression have not so far acted in a very coordinated manner, but more or less each has acted within its work area, on the basis of government work programmes and work programmes of the individual department. Most of the time, this action was unrelated, so that each body pursued the objectives it had set in its work area, but there was no common objective, namely, to manage and thereby reduce crime through coordinated, preventive action. Although progress in cooperation with other state authorities and NGOs has been observed in recent years in specific areas, such cooperation is still often partial and therefore does not achieve better results than it could have been. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are aware that Slovenia, by entering the European Union, has become responsible for the security of all Member States and thus has become an equal partner in security efforts in the area of united Europe. We therefore welcome the concept of the resolution under consideration, which, by creating circumstances for the highest possible quality of life for both the individual and society as a whole, builds a preventive shield against the phenomenon of crime and thus ensures life in a more secure environment. The resolution is ambitious enough to aim at the coordinated functioning of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, as well as other institutions, which, through cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organisations, can make a significant contribution to policy implementation, both prevention and the suppression of crime. The resolution stems from the concept of human security, as one of the most important goods that man wants most to have. It is therefore important, as a starting point, that each individual be guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms and equal baseline opportunities for action, creation and personal development. While this often raises the question of whether measures to ensure human security can interfere with human rights and freedoms. Certainly, no measure by which the State provides security cannot and must not affect human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is clear, however, that the limit between the provision of security and individual human freedom is not set for all time, but depends on the security situation at a certain point in time. In order to ensure security as one of the fundamental human values, at a certain point, if necessary, it may also fall into human freedom, which is certainly never absolute. Human freedom is not an absolute category, but it is limited by the legal rules adopted. However, the intervention in fundamental human rights that we know within the United Nations is never permissible. The resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime does not set a limit between the two values, i.e. between the right to freedom and the right to security. This cannot be the ambition of the resolution, as this border is not as permanent and unalterable as I have said before. This border is always dependent on the current security situation, which is constantly changing, and legislation is being adapted accordingly. The proposed resolution contains appropriate guidelines on criminal policy and the fight against crime, with an emphasis on preventing crime and on the cooperation of competent state authorities and civil society organisations. These guidelines will also have to be followed by future legislation or amendments and additions thereto. As we say, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed resolution on the prevention and repression of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtijar Bebler has the floor, and she will give her position to the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The LDS Group supports the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime, in particular its principles and objectives, aware of the importance of this area for strengthening not only legal but also social states, in order to ensure stable economic development, as well as respect for human rights and freedoms, as well as the security of citizens as well as the wider social community. Therefore, every effort must be made to ensure such a social environment that will have an impact on the reduction of crime, and we are aware that its complete elimination is not possible. In the LDS, we support the objectives of the resolution submitted, with particular emphasis being placed on the need for a coordinated functioning of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. In this context, particular emphasis should be placed on the need for a coordinated legal and effective functioning of the executive and judicial branches of government, which, in our view, is not always the most appropriate, which has recently been reflected in the so-called Plut case. In the LDS, we support the basic orientations of the resolution, and we point out that greater emphasis should be given in the future to those guidelines, which are not only based on an increase in repression, but are particularly of greater preventive importance. Today, there is an increasing question of how to ensure real security and also security against crime, without therefore being required to derogate from the standards achieved in respect of respect for and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This authority, however, seems to be strongly favoured by the increasing limitation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, often under a password that this is necessary in order to ensure greater security, which we have already witnessed in some of the laws that have been drawn up and prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. In the LDS, we regret the ruling coalition's decision to reject our proposal to hold a public opinion on such a strategic document. Notwithstanding the fact that resolutions in principle constitute the basis or direction for the content of laws, we think it would be very useful to make a public presentation of opinions on this resolution, to which experts and other stakeholders would be invited, so as to contribute to the comprehensive enlightenment on the issue of crime and its prevention and repression. In the LDS, we are aware that the resolution before us is only the basis for the preparation of a national programme to prevent and combat crime, and we regret that the resolution does not contain detailed analyses, assessments and suggestions. That is why we will pay all our attention to the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime announced by the government or the ministry. When adopting the national programme, we will pay particular attention to the fact that the objectives and orientations of the resolution will be operationalised in the manner set out in the resolution, because in the LDS we do not want to keep the guidelines on paper alone and in practice face increased crime, with even more undetected perpetrators of crimes and with the lack of efficiency of law enforcement and punishment authorities. In the LDS, we express doubts and concerns about the implementation of the resolution and the national programme itself. In our opinion, concern is fully justified by the fact that staff exchanges in the types of Ministry of the Interior, in the police and also directly in the criminal service, where staff with long-term experience are irreplaceable and replaced with less experienced and qualified but undoubtedly more politically compatible. We consider these personnel exchanges to be extremely harmful. The consequences of such a policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are already the ability to sense and feel, but more clearly they will surely show themselves in time. Well, one of these effects is already on the palm of your hand. Due to political incompatibility, we have abolished the anti-corruption commission so far and have deliberately weakened the country's ability to prevent and suppress corruption. However, there has also been a replacement of the director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which is certainly likely, if not certain, to at least likely weaken the capacity of the State in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč, the Group of the Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we have assessed that the preparation, debate and adoption of a resolution on the prevention and repression of crime is of great importance to the country, as there is no doubt that crime is growing, that people from many, including justified, reasons are seriously concerned about their security situation, that there are many very different views on how to resolve issues and that, therefore, a constant debate on the problems of crime and the search for solutions to ensure its prevention and repression is necessary. This or the resolution gives sufficient basis for the goals we all want, which is greater security, and there were different opinions and different views in the Group. I must admit that I have been among those - and I have also received permission and agreement to say that I believe that there is a great deal of work to be done in the preparation of the resolution. That we received a resolution, which is not the custom to include explanations in the text alone, but a lot of correct empirical data on crime and activities in this area. Yes, at least I think, while we can't do anything wrong with the content of the word, it's hard to say that it will give any benefit to prevent and suppress crime. And this was in some way acknowledged by the government representatives when we discussed the resolution on the home labour body, when they tried to give us good comfort in saying that, on the basis of the resolution, a national programme would be prepared in one way or another in the shortest possible time, which would define much more concretely than the resolution itself the activities that would be necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the resolution. For this reason, I think it is right that, with the beautiful words that we are referring to in the debate on this resolution, let us also draw attention to this aspect - to note the need for society as a whole to engage in a much more concrete manner and to answer questions that are very, very present in our public today and to which answers are not easily answered. The debates revolve around what would happen from family, school, public education, public information and then everything else needed to be done in order to create a different social climate. There is talk about whether different forms of hatred are growing in Slovenia, from hate speech to children's performances and later the political and physical sense of reckoning between people, whether it is less or more, why it is so, whether we are fighting this effectively enough or not. Serious debates are being held whether we have an appropriate criminal policy and legislation that prescribes penalties or not. There are very different opinions on this. For a long time, there has been a position in the public, to which both the government and the minister do not have a clear answer and answer as the current situation wishes: whether the permanent term of judges is the main reason for all problems in the judiciary or not. Most people think not, we have customers who think so. The government, as it does, sometimes makes it clear that it is behind a permanent judicial mandate, sometimes it also says a little more goods or a little differently. Violence against women, children, domestic violence is in some sense classified as an attack on the family and does not acknowledge that this is a serious problem facing society. On the other hand, solutions are expected with measures they cannot take. And it would also be possible to speak and list specific cases. And this is what bothered us with the resolution, which would say nicely, appropriately, in the long term, sets out its objectives, which we all support, and closes our eyes to concrete problems that are very serious and that we face as a society. The only appeal we have, if this resolution cannot, because you will all be delighted to adopt it, at least the national programme, should at least have the specific activities of the relevant ministries prepare their solutions to gradually address these issues so that we do not have a nice resolution, but in fact the security and criminality situation would go in a different direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues. The resolution, as set out in the content we are talking about today, should be the basis for, for the first time, preventively, the second time, curatively, the third time, repressive action. The absolute correct definition, however, is mainly repressive if it is physically transposed into legislative areas by various content. Repressively acting, which, of course, is also a necessary condition in certain cases, but in this case we will, personally as the Slovenian National Party, also step into the defence on one side of the repressive authorities, because we are overloading them. The overload of repressive organs means that we give them not an option, but a duty of our own. And their own judgment, i.e. the judgment of the repressive authority at a certain point, is as sometimes subjective and separate for every human being. This is the first thought, given that a great burden is imposed on repression and we do not stress or work, we do not specify the content of preventive and curative action. I can prove it. In the European Union, which is very interesting, colleagues and colleagues, as you may have read in the resolution, is not at all the practice of adopting and formulating resolutions, declarations and programmes, but most of the countries of the European Union, where we are and we must also play the game and respect the rules of the club in which we are, most of the crime is included in specific programmes in different areas and also in concrete legislation. It means that crime is included in programmes in the social, educational, educational and other fields, and is also included in legislation alone, precisely according to the elements included in the programme. There is nothing wrong with us if we write a resolution. If we go a little further, we are back to a very warm and important, I stress the important content that is ahead of us, but please, if you correct me, I do not know that any broader public debate would have been carried out or that I do not know that it is the intention for a wider public debate to be convened in the future, as we have already witnessed something. If there is, then a public debate is needed in the area of addressing the resolution on crime, which will in fact have to include all segments of society and the country. And there we will get another answer to one question raised by the Slovenian National Party: What civil society is the content of the resolution addressed? In the public debate we will see, know and hear this and, hopefully, we will also respect all the opinions that, as we are now witnessing, strange developments in the field of education, and elsewhere else, these people will tell themselves in this place, so that at least we will have help to find the essence of this resolution, which is, in the resolution I have not found, but nevertheless, the essence of this resolution will be the way of implementing this document. The essence is a way of doing it. You can fix me here, too. Unfortunately, the way in which the content of the resolution on crime prevention is implemented is not defined in the resolution itself. And another very important question, respected colleagues and colleagues who must and who appear to every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I am not saying that the answer that I am going to give to this question and that it is subjective, correct. The first one we have to think of on this issue is us and all Slovenes and all Slovenes. Whether, according to the terms and content of this resolution, all Slovenians and Slovenians are prepared to renounce personal freedom at the expense of repressive and curative action. Are we, or aren't we? Because this will happen with defined repressive action measures. We will give up all together the part of personal freedom and rights in order to prevent growing criminality. They are in our society and there will be deviations, there is desocialisation of this society and in Slovenia it is, I must say, a fair liking to the inefficiency of the justice system. This is recorded in the resolution. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, the resolution in the Slovenian National Party, myself personally, will not be opposed. However, I ask that some calls after public debate, some calls after reflection and the transfer of tasks from repressive to preventive work, the transfer to programmes and legislation, be taken into account. Thank you very much. And in the end, democracy is not anarchy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Security is a value or becoming a value that is highly valued for us in Slovenia, and depending on security, people in individual surveys also respond to how they feel in a particular local area. I could certainly attach to the finding set out in the opinion of the Council of State, which states that it is a document which does not have a programme. This is a non-binding document, simply by providing some data, while I must say that such a document is, of course, necessary, if you want to prepare a national programme, laws and measures in this area with the aim of improving things. The deterioration of safety conditions is a matter of concern. Also the data mentioned in the resolution, the number of crimes recorded, say, in 1991 42 thousand about, in 2004 86 thousand. These are huge, huge numbers. The increasing number of reported crimes, domestic violence, vandalism, burglary, theft, this is what we witness every day. Let me say that it does not take a day for any of the citizens and citizens or individual representatives of individual local communities, such as the towns and towns, to complain that drugs are being sold in their backyard or in their premises and that they want to act on the repressive authorities. At the same time, in Velenje, for several years we have seen a shortage of police officers, few police officers and even these police officers, if you want to prevent the craziness of the roads, spread on the roads and care in this way also for some kind of prevention. I think that the path is wrong, that we need to take care of better roads and thus improve traffic safety, but not that we have police officers at almost every step of the road. These officers need to be directed or directed elsewhere, to the area of preventive action where their occurrence is sometimes sufficient for people or those who have bad intentions to think seriously about whether or not they would do so. For a good example or example, I would like to point out the development of advice on improving the safety of citizens who have proved to be a good case and should be placed in the system. This brings the work of police officers and local communities closer together, somehow bringing the work of police officers and police officers closer to citizens and citizens. And what I kind of miss is that way of working when we had the cops so organized that they actually knew their surroundings, that they were working with their surroundings, and probably that's why the number of crimes was smaller than today. And there's something else that I always point out in this house when we talk about repressive organs when we talk about police. Police officers in this country are underpaid for the work they do. And when we talk about these deviations, let me say that young people think, young people look at their peers and watch those who actually drive good heavy vehicles, and at the same time police drive cars that I think are very difficult to get through a technical checkup. And then these cars should be used to control the sale of drugs or anything else. It's impossible because their car's on the road and they don't get what they're aiming for. It is also important to note that at times we are in a situation where people are thinking that they will make their own order so that we can take care of our own safety. That's dangerous. And that's something I'd like to pay special attention to. The resolution cannot therefore be opposed. The resolution is only the basis for action or for the preparation of a programme to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, it is not just some extreme cases that we have witnessed or, above all, in recent periods, such as Plut, school events, and individual events. Above all, it seems to me that they are not more important but equally important or equally, I prefer to say worrying all the other cases, all the other sets of cases and events that are not consistent with the normal behaviour of both society and individual groups. Usually, crime is a mirror of social status. The security situation across Europe or the whole world, but we prefer to talk about Europe or the countries of the European Union, is deteriorating, aggression is increasing, and Slovenia is following relatively fast all these countries, where the problems of large migration are also in the past and so on, because these problems are also causing tensions in the current, possibly more acute economic situation in all these countries, including the situation in Slovenia. Emphasis must be placed on prevention, emphasis must be placed in a socially fair country. One of the main conditions is the proper economic situation, not only of the country as a whole, but of every part of that country, of every place and of every family in this country. A few days ago, I asked the question of the question of the family, where I do not think I was very well understood, not with the government or with colleagues in the National Assembly. In particular, I have been thinking that we lack measures to have a real, clean family in Slovenia, that some families will not be split up or separated for economic reasons. This seems even more important to me that economic reasons are those for which we do not have real families and where there is separation in children, from this is no longer far from behaviour that is not in line with the behaviour that is normal in Europe and even in Slovenia. It seems particularly important to me that all the departments and all institutions operate in a coordinated manner, I reiterate, in the preventive area. Of course it's also a repressive. Some recent cases have shown that something has creaked at these repressive levels and that obviously we do not have enough procedures. But above all, in these short minutes, I intend to give an emphasis to this prevention, from the family, to the living environment where we live, to the schools, we see how important and how difficult the problems in schools are, not just in individual, in a significant number, and how important it is for preventive action in the working environment as well. Personally, I am convinced that the criminal policy itself is not the solution, that prevention is the one that ensures that less will not only these protruding extreme cases, but also all other possibly smaller ones that do not appear to be so dangerous at first sight, but that the problem increases significantly by stepping up these negative or wrong phenomena. For all these reasons, I will also support this resolution in the process of further adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If we are talking about a document such as a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime, it can be discussed at the principal level, while at the same time it is worth considering how leverage the State can provide an individual with a sense of security. And that's exactly what I'd like to stop at. For I believe that a sense of danger is sometimes very different for an individual. Individuals feel threatened sooner or later when it comes to our personal freedom. Whenever we think from the perspective of the threat of personal freedom, our attitude towards the role of the State and of repression is different from that of thinking in the context of situations of excellence, from which we then imagine how our security should be assured of what I mean? For example, if we are witnessing a serious traffic accident, with severe consequences, we want to have stricter legislation in road and traffic safety. When we think from the point of view of those who violate this legislation, we have a lot of comments on it that it is too mild. And I would also like to make a similar transfer in a criminality where I would not like to stop at those who have signs of organised crime, economic crime and those worst forms that appear to them, because we want to live in a world where we want to be mobile, where mobility is also one of the characteristics or escorts of our freedom and we cannot avoid negative effects, but I would like to point out that we have lived in illusion for a long time, that we are better citizens and citizens of Slovenia than others and that we are protected from the negative effects of the modern world. But I am more interested in the forms that are related to our attitude towards violence, which is also of a dual nature, I think. When this is related again to our pure personal view, personal conduct, we can be much more tolerant than when we find ourselves, it is said when we are executives themselves, and the second time we are victims. I mean, especially violence in the family, where, for example, we are discussing whether we should adopt a resolution or measures in Slovenia to prohibit the punishment of children, such an action or such a commitment, because we think that only with stricter criminal policy will we achieve a greater order to say so. And here, I think, at some point, because of the extraordinary situations, we'd like to start thinking that there's more security. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! As we initially said in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we will support the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime, there are other opinions to be made here. I must stress here in person, given the time we live in, we are also witnessing everyday events, especially the suppression of juvenile and juvenile delinquency crime. This needs to be stressed that recent rises in crime in the field of youth crime have been on the rise. The system as such does not work in our society, does not work to prevent preventively such or other crimes in the field of juvenile delinquency. It is therefore necessary that this resolution, which we will deal with today and also adopt, is the basis for accession to the system to prevent and suppress juvenile crime. It's unacceptable, and as I don't remember, when I was in primary school, there were as many children in primary schools as we can meet today at our youngest. I had the opportunity to take a 15-year-old student to Maribor yesterday after the meeting because a friend from Maribor asked me to bring her to Maribor for some sports activities. In her conversation, she told me herself that she couldn't believe everyone else was smoking pot in the 8th and 9th classes. Everyone else. When I asked her where these boys and girls get to the grass, she said it was normal to sell weed in front of schools, in schools, in the halls. Believe me, even in those days when I went to elementary school, and you who are sitting and listening here today weren't in the 7th, 8th and 9th classes as much alcohol as today. It's not the school's fault. It's the company's fault. It is also the parents' fault, and it is also our fault to the politicians who are involved in any way in the adoption of such or other legislation. In this area, honourable Members, we must do much more with the government than has been done so far. Americans have a system and some Western countries. Whoever is allowed near kindergartens, the primary schools of some other institutions offer such or other drugs, for that penal code provides for twice as much punishment as they would elsewhere. These are the systems. Some things can be prevented, but some things cannot and should also be suppressed in such a way that the one who poisons our youngest with such or other drugs that are on the market is most severely punished. During the debate and the presentation of the Group of Members, it was also mentioned that it was necessary to ensure the coordinated functioning of both the legislative branch of the Authority and the judiciary as well as the executive branch of the Authority. We witnessed recently in the Plut case, where we were able to find that the judicial and executive branches of power on the one hand had failed. Anyone who thinks would point a finger at the cops. In my personal opinion, he has failed the system in such a case. The system needs to be put on such a level as to ensure security for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia not only for them, safety for families, for our children [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	Not yet. [[...]] Three more seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Okay. Your word forward has Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is also clear from today's debate that this is an area that clearly requires an interdisciplinary approach. I would therefore like to point out once again that it was actually unacceptable when this national assembly did not decide to present its opinions publicly. One feature of crime is that we face new and emerging forms of crime every day, including those forms of crime that are also increasingly dangerous. For example, my predecessor has already talked about drug abuse in our society, especially among young people, if we are talking here also about trafficking in drugs and all the other consequences of such trafficking, we are also faced every day, so to speak, every day, which was not yet the characteristic of this space, with very horrendous robberies, then there are increasing forms of crime or more frequent computerization, we face the problem of terrorism, and we must be aware that criminals are always at least one step ahead of those who are supposed to be tracked down. So this is actually a very large area, a very important topic, and I will conclude here again, and I appeal that, at least in the national programme on the suppression and prevention of crime, we organise a public presentation of opinions and draw to the debate also those who in fact know a lot in various aspects of this issue and should use their behaviour and knowledge to this extent in order to actually adopt such a national programme for the suppression and prevention of crime that would contribute to the mitigation of the consequences of this serious disease of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich. [[He's quitting.]] Does the government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to give a brief additional explanation on the motion for a resolution. In order to implement the resolution, the authorities of the security system are somehow responsible in a narrower context, in a more narrow sense, namely the police, intelligence and security services, the State Prosecutor's Office, the judicial authorities, the supervisory inspection bodies and other public authorities, as well as institutions that contribute to internal stability and security in the wider sense, education, health, social protection and so on, of course, as well as civil society, meaning somehow religious, cultural, ethnic and other institutions and also NGOs. By 31.1.2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will send a national programme for the prevention and repression of crime to the National Assembly for a period of 5 years, which will specify the tasks and actions of the State authorities, the participation of NGOs and civil society organisations, set the deadlines for implementation, and evaluate the tasks and measures financially. In order to monitor the implementation of this proposed resolution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes, in accordance with the principles of effective criminal prevention policy, the establishment of a consultative and coordination body consisting of representatives of state authorities, the professional public, local communities, civil society, NGOs and so on. The results of the implementation of the resolution will be measurable on the basis of research, surveys and joint actions. Following the adoption of the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will report at least once a year to the National Assembly on its implementation. As regards the proposal for a public presentation of the national programme, the Government is considering this and will certainly implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted to have a say. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. As no amendments were tabled to the motion for a resolution, the assembly on the motion for a resolution, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 17.20 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - On the proposal for a resolution on the National Social Security Programme for the period 2006-2010 The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. Mrs Marjeta Cotma, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! Through the National Social Protection Programme by 2010, we are setting ourselves the basic objectives of social protection policy and new strategies and measures related to the implementation of the programme. The programme is the result of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and various experts in the field of social and security policy and, after public discussion, has been supplemented by proposals from various executive organisations and their umbrella associations. We are expanding the social protection network through the programme in a number of areas, and we are providing the least achieved level in individual areas, and we are approaching social protection services and programmes to a greater extent than ever before, and we are expanding the range of operators with non-governmental operators. The fundamental starting point of social protection policy remains that, during this period, the task of the State and local communities is to ensure, in particular, such conditions or conditions that will enable individuals, in conjunction with others in the family, work and living environment, to cooperate creatively and to realize their development potential in order to achieve a level of quality of life comparable to that of others in the environment and to meet the criteria of human dignity. The fundamental objective of social protection policy is to provide the individual and his family, in cases where basic social security cannot be guaranteed on its own, with urgent professional assistance and material resources for a decent life and to enable human dignity. Taking into account this fundamental objective by establishing and implementing this national social protection programme, we are pursuing the following more detailed objectives. Firstly, to contribute to greater social inclusion of individuals and the integration of Slovenian society. Secondly, improve access to services and programmes. Thirdly, achieve greater efficiency in the allocation of monetary social assistance and improve the quality of services and programmes and increase their targeted orientation and effectiveness. Fourthly, strengthen professional autonomy, governance autonomy and rational social protection business. The principles on which the implementation of the social protection system will be based are: ensuring human dignity, social security, solidarity and individual responsibility for ensuring individual social security and social security for its family members. Guidelines for working at all levels within the social protection system will be equal access and equal opportunities, voluntary inclusion, free choice, individualisation of treatment, economic management of budgetary resources, agreement between operators and users. The National Social Protection Programme will have significant financial implications for public expenditure due to the need to expand the network of social security services and to improve the accessibility of the wider range of users, new jobs for social protection service providers and programmes, and the necessary investments in facilities where new social security services and programmes will be implemented, while also in this period new capacity for the implementation of institutional protection of older persons will be provided to a large extent by private capital investment, taking into account the budgetary possibilities of each financial year. Taking into account the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the forecasts of gross domestic product growth and inflation movements, we anticipate that the budget expenditure for the implementation of the social protection policy will increase from SIT 57.7 billion in 2005 to a good 70 billion in 2010. However, the envisaged budgetary expenditure does not cover investments in social security by private individuals, expenditure by municipalities and health insurance institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cotman. I apologize for the previous mispronouncement. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to welcome everyone here. The draft resolution was considered by the Committee as the working body at its 13th serious meeting on 10.3.2006. Representatives of the proposer and the representative of the Council of State and a number of representatives of the institutions and the public concerned were involved in the work of the Committee. In addition to the text of the motion for a resolution, the members of the Committee received two additional opinions from the Commission of the State Council, comments and proposals for amendments to the Association of Visions, the National Association of Ozara, the Committee on Mental Health Innovation, the association of the Sunček associations, the communities of the social institutions of Slovenia, the Association and the communities of training organisations and the social chambers of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that motion for a resolution in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative technical aspect, and has also made a number of specific comments. In the general debate, some members and members of the Committee stressed that the motion for a resolution was well prepared and that it was a suitable basis for regulating social protection rights. However, some members pointed out that a number of comments made by associations and companies on the basis of which they could improve the content submitted should be included in the resolution. During the business term, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš was submitted to the amendment document, followed by DeSUS's Group of Members and the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. In the course of the debate, the Committee adopted the amendment of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner to Chapters 3 and 4, the LDS Group of Members to Chapter 4 and the two amendments of DeSUS to Chapter 6. However, the Committee has drawn up a number of its amendments and adopted them, complementing or finalising a motion for a resolution in terms of comments by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and, in terms of substantive approaches, has also adopted some amendments as theirs, which have been submitted and reasoned by a number of institutions that have worked at the Committee's meeting when it considered this resolution, monitored and cooperated. All that has been adopted is part of the completed document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Brenčič has the floor again. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that again. The resolution on the national social protection programme 2006-2010, similar to the national social protection programme of the preceding period, establishes a broad and transparent basis on which, in accordance with the capacity of the State, it is possible to draw on a range of implementing acts which implement the resolution objectives in practice, with the aim of establishing the sustainability of the social situation of our population and, in the first place, those categories of persons who, for many reasons, are only difficult to provide social security themselves. In addition to programme approaches, the motion for a resolution also provides at least an indicative framework for the necessary scope of public funds to implement a whole range of strategies and measures to achieve ambitiously set objectives in some respects. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that, in view of the necessary considerable public financial caution and the sustainability of the country due to the entry into the euro area for 2006, 2007 cannot set pre-ambitious targets and over-rich organisational and qualitative criteria, but it should be possible, since the document is written for the period until 2010, to set some measures and criteria a little more optimistic. Here we focus mainly on caring for persons with mental and physical disabilities, as well as generally in the field of mental health, because the needs of this segment are growing progressively from year to year, and the infirmities of this group of people and their guardians are growing from year to year. The motion for a resolution is organically built on four fundamental objectives for which a number of strategies are being put in place with direct actions to implement them. In the parliamentary group, regardless of whether we accept this document as a good one, we need to find that the drafter of the document should establish more dialogue or communication with a number of institutions operating at the local, regional and national level in the field of social protection, on the basis of which the motion for a resolution would be made more substantively and deliberately more visible on individual segments. Notwithstanding the fact that the motion for a resolution has improved in the case of a parental working body, it should be justified to introduce certain minor substantive changes into it, especially with regard to the quantitative criteria set out in Chapter 5, in the title of institutional protection for persons with mental disabilities, both for children, adolescents and adults, because the situation in this area is not in spite of good intentions, both for the Ministry of State and for many societies and other institutions, nothing is comprehensible, even if we imagine that the objectives set out in the proposal for this resolution are fully realized. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme, but the parliamentary group as a whole will not support the amendments of the coalition, which, in my opinion, unfortunately, amend or delete some of the content that has been tabled in the motion for a resolution on the basis of the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Thank you all very much and thank Vice-President Klavori for leading the session so far. It is up to Mrs Zgajner Tavš to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and both government representatives! I believe you are already tired of presenting the views of the parliamentary groups or opposition Members, which are beginning with the criticism of the document we are considering. The national social protection programme for the period 2006-2010, unfortunately, and in fact, I think, unfortunately, it is not well prepared. It is technically flawed, it leaves a wide range of areas, does not take into account demographic indicators and is insufficiently accurate in certain segments. The basic starting points of the document itself or the resolution should be to ensure that conditions or conditions allow individuals in relation to other persons in the family, working and living environment to cooperate creatively and to realize their development potential. Higher quality of life based on activities, achieving the criteria of human dignity, where individuals cannot provide social security and prosperity on their own because of the functioning of external and internal factors, they are entitled to aid, respect for the principle of subsidiarity in aid and decision-making. For social security and for the well-being and well-being of the family, everyone is primarily responsible. The principles for the implementation of the social protection system are: ensuring human dignity, social justice, solidarity and individual responsibility for ensuring individual social security and social security for its family members. At all levels, however, the guidelines are equal access and equal opportunities, voluntary inclusion, and I rightly wonder how they can be integrated into groups of people who do not have information that is stigmatised, detached, minors and the like. Furthermore, free choice, individual treatment, cost-effective management of budgetary resources and, last but not least, agreement between operators and users. I'm going to say, first of all, some well-established starting points, principles, and not least, I'm going to lead. The Government should take into account the macro-economic and social dimension of the development of Slovenia when preparing the document. Let me just mention the strategy for the development of Slovenia in relation to the Lisbon strategy, the set goal or project, the rapid growth of gross domestic or social product per capita. In 10 years we are expected to reach the EU average in Slovenia. Rapid growth is mainly foreseen for the post-2007 period. Employment is expected to increase, especially for older and young jobseekers. I'm saying "let's," that's the plan. Unemployment is expected to decrease by 2013, even below the 4% threshold. Youth and adults are expected to become more involved in education. The education structure and lifelong learning process are expected to improve. Meanwhile, it is very interesting when the Minister of Education promotes secondary education, only secondary education. Furthermore, there is a need for faster development of service activities, particularly in health, social protection and education, among public services. The rapid development of market-oriented services is also expected to be achieved in the area of social services and the removal of barriers in the internal market of the European Union. This raises the question of how market-oriented social works go along with objectives such as volunteerism and, last but not least, subsidiarity. They are expected to achieve deregulation, decentralisation and de-de-barcation of the country. Unfortunately, the new role of social work centres does not, or does, contribute to, this resolution. And what is also unclear or perhaps even controversial; the implementation will increasingly be left to entrepreneurial public-private networks of organisations using public and private sources of funding. There were no detailed analyses, or at least we, in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, did not track them in connection with this document. How well and, above all, on what the real foundations of the resolution are, of course, we will see in the implementation of its strategies or objectives, which are so far very general, without implementing acts, which, of course, will require laws, which is, after all, logical. I can confirm doubts about the reality of the document from here today, especially as regards certain projects. For example, let me only mention the expansion of the social security services network. The fact is that the present act is the basis for social protection for the coming period, i.e. the period from 2006 to 2010, and that the National Assembly has already adopted a budget or two budgets, both for the first year in force of this resolution document and for the next year, 2007. And if we look at just these two years, it can be seen from the budgets adopted that only in the area of regulation and supervision of the social protection system the budget is falling or the financial resources in the budget are falling by a good 100 million Slovenian tolars in 2007 compared to this year. What we last missed in the Slovenian National Party when this document was being prepared is a public or broader debate. Only posting on the website, we estimate, is not enough. It is too soon to accept an important document. Last but not least, more than 20 amendments adopted in the home working body bear witness to this, and many reasoned comments, including the comments of the Social Chamber, which, once again, I will stress, have been justified and, to some extent, have also been infiltrated in the resolution. Also in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have prepared a total of 11 substantive amendments on a motion for a resolution, particularly in the area of social protection services in the case of child abuse and abuse, even when it comes to the inclusion of social work centres, which is also supported by professional workers at the centres, but unfortunately the government has not found a hearing for this. We have also prepared amendments in the field of institutional protection for older people and children or people with developmental disabilities. According to official data, the Government did not take demographic indicators into account in these areas when preparing the resolution. For example, I should simply point out that the percentage or percentage of the involvement of persons with special needs in institutional protection remains the same as in 2000. However, the situation is similar in the area of institutional protection of older persons, despite the fact that the population is old and that the need for institutional protection is already today, that is, in 2006, beyond certain capacity frameworks or standards. This document, which we are considering today, should once again remind me that there is a period for the future period, that is, until 2010. In this presentation, I would like to mention that two, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, were adopted, are important substantive amendments to Chapters 3 and 4 of the resolution. The text of "sexually abused children" was also included in the work strategy for vulnerable groups. Once again, because I was a little unclear, I would point out that, in the context of special care for vulnerable groups, special care for sexually abused children has also been possible. However, I will say that for important progress in this basic document or the basis for the drafting of laws, and I believe that I rightly expect the government to take the document seriously in this part, and to prepare appropriate measures in the form of laws. Finally, at the time of the amendment to Chapter 4, where we wanted to add to the measures the creation of special working bodies that will actively address the problem of torture and sexual abuse and other child abuse, said that it would otherwise agree with the proposed content, but that content was not accepted because, according to the Government representative, who is also with us today, this content was included in the national programme for children and youth from 2006 to 2016. However, I regret to point out once again that we had quite a few complications when we wanted to get to that document. At the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where this document was to be prepared, they did not really know that the document was ready and that it was also to be publicised. It was only at the beginning of this week that we sent a request to the Minister to present the document to us, that the Ministry's representative responded and said that this document was available at their internet site in the context of a public debate. But I have to say that the document was on their website marked "internal" and it was very difficult to get to it. I would like to say that, although I also have this document with me today, especially because the government representative said that part of the social security services that touch children and young people in the field of abuse or sexual abuse should be included specifically in this national programme. I will say that this programme is written even more generally than the resolution we are considering today. And to the extent that the Government's wish is indeed true that things are going well in the coming period - I say again - even this national programme for children and youth is written for the period from 2006 to 2010 - in short, that things are beginning to change and regulate really well, then it would be reasonable to extend the deadline and actually carry out a broader public debate on this document and include it in a professional way, so that the story as it was when we adopted a resolution on the national social protection programme within the framework of the working body. Let me once again state the position of the Slovenian National Party. These are documents that are primarily written in general, without concrete action. Only the findings of what should be done, in particular in this other document which I have mentioned, are provided without adequate analysis. The complications, the lack of public debate - as has already been said - would make sense once again that if the government actually wants to get concrete, particularly constructive comments on the document, it will extend the deadline and actually hold a public or broader debate, in particular on the national programme on children and youth - given that we will adopt the resolution today and that, in fact, there will be no more comments or changes. I have highlighted only this segment of this program, but I believe that if you look at it, you will find a lot of interesting and valuable discussion. While we will support the resolution on the national social protection programme in the Slovenian National Party, we will adopt a resolution on the national social protection programme, because, last but not least, we assume that certain starting points are good and that, as I have already said, it has been adopted, an important change that we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party to finally work and work more interdisciplinaryly or multidisciplinaryly in the area of prevention in the area of sexual abuse or abuse of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. A priest in the name of Dessus.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the social protection programme in Slovenia for the period 2006-2010 is an example of a document that wants to change everything on the nose in this area, despite the fact that the envisaged changes are unconscionable, that require time, knowledge and money. In short, it is an example of the concept of broad-based private funding and of an initiative without guarantee that this will also actually happen and work, on the one hand, as well as the immediate reduction of forms and resources in the area of, for example, institutional protection on the other hand. This concept would be theoretically feasible only if the current capacity was at least sufficient in grave terms, but unfortunately not so. The current programme has been implemented somewhere to a maximum of 70%, even though it is compared to a programme that did not cover all the needs. In our homes, we have almost half the required beds, and the difference will increase dramatically due to the end of the latter’s construction in the coming years. The illusion that the private sector will meet the missing needs has two major shortcomings: the first is at a significantly higher price and the second is at a time delay, because it takes time to build such capacity. The development of home aid on the other hand is too slow and is actually one of the more expensive forms of protection for the elderly or the assistance needed, which, of course, translates into local communities and individuals as a cost. The concept continues to tend to place an increasing burden on the local community rather than on the whole in this area and on the individual, who is also one of the general flaws of this resolution. The resolution is also lacking in terms of the European Constitutional Treaty, the framework for economic and social reforms, as well as in terms of the coalition treaty, where the talks on the protection of older people, lifelong learning, the care of young people and large families, and less expensive housing and so on. The resolution did not take into account the opinion of civil society and social welfare institutions, such as the Slovenian Social Chamber, the Community of Social Institutions and the types of organisations working in this area. Finally, the resolution has somehow ignored the phrase in the coalition contract, which says that the level of social protection achieved must not be reduced, as the funds envisaged do not follow that sentence. This resolution, and within it, is also based on an assessment, in our view, of excessive economic growth, which will be difficult to achieve and, if not, of course, the gap between the funding framework provided in view of the needs will be even greater. However, despite the many shortcomings of this resolution, it is necessary to say that the Committee, with its amendments and with some amendments adopted by the parliamentary groups or individuals, has made an important contribution to improving the document to this extent, so that our Group of Members will still support it, because we need a resolution and a programme of social protection for Slovenia. We firmly believe, however, that further discussion on solutions will be possible when individual measures are introduced or implemented in the field of practice and that we will be able to compensate to some extent for shortcomings which could not be mentioned here in all details. That is why I think it is right to adopt the resolution as such and to devote the necessary care and attention to individual measures when it comes to the order within the action itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The resolution on the national social protection programme 2006-2010 sets out the basic principles and guidelines on which the country’s social protection system is based. The fundamental objective of social protection policy is to provide the individual and his family with professional assistance and the necessary material resources for a decent life and the provision of human dignity in the event that basic social security cannot be guaranteed by itself. The resolution on the national social protection programme will contribute to greater social inclusion of individuals and the integration of Slovenian society. In order to achieve this objective, the following strategies are envisaged: promoting solidarity and reducing inequality, preventing intolerance and, in particular, addressing the causes of intolerance, representing the principles of non-discrimination in all areas of life and work and developing various forms of charity, promoting and developing volunteering, coordinating policies and measures in various areas affecting the social situation of the individual and his family, mobilizing all policymakers and policy makers at different levels to achieve a common objective, greater social inclusion, support to the family and other social networks in order to help the need, develop and introduce new models of community care, and special care for vulnerable groups of the population. The purpose of the resolution on the national programme is to improve access to services and programmes, which means that there will be a need to develop the network in line with the needs of users, to enable and promote the plurality of operators and the entry of new operators into the social protection system, while simplifying conditions and procedures, to ensure regional balance of supply and to implement a range of aid to less developed areas in the country, to change the funding system and the means for paying services to provide directly to users, to introduce a single system of long-term care for related health and social services for all age groups in need of care and to transfer the implementation function in the field of social security institutions from countries to other entities. The Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme provides greater efficiency in the allocation of social assistance and the improvement of the quality of services and programmes, while increasing their targeted orientation and effectiveness, in particular by ensuring effective assistance in the social protection system to those individuals and families who are in or out of social difficulties without adequate assistance, by individualising the implementation of programmes and services and by coordinating with the needs of the user on the advice and organisation of the aid system, by strengthening the involvement of social protection users in actively addressing their own pressures and difficulties, and by developing strategies to improve living conditions, create and implement such a policy of remuneration that will promote their own activity, by adapting standards and standards to the needs of users and the development of professions, by promoting the development of quality, efficiency and innovation in the field of social protection activities. We will support the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Robbery to present the report of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Honourable Assembly! Today we are adopting a resolution on the national social protection programme from 2006 to 2010. There is no doubt that this is an extremely important document defining how, to what extent and with what dynamics of development we will provide social protection in Slovenia in the future. With this resolution, we are still deciding what kind of social state we want and we will have in the future in Slovenia, so it is important how we will decide today. I must say that it is incomprehensible to me that today there is no Minister for Social Affairs with us; with such an important document that decides on such an important matter, there is no Minister for Social Affairs between us. I can only see two possible reasons why he's not here. First of all, he's aware of the weakness of the document that's in front of us. The other could be that, in fact, the area of social security is not a personal priority. It's both bad, it's not good, and it's good that we're all aware of it. The parent committee heard a great deal of comments and initiatives, particularly by representatives of the profession, operators and civil society, wishing to improve the document before us today, particularly in those areas where the need for individual services is greatest and where it is particularly necessary to protect the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens; that is, those who are most at risk, those who take the most difficult care of themselves, particularly children, adolescents, elderly people and persons with mental and physical disabilities. Unfortunately, we must find that a large majority of the proposed amendments or many proposed amendments, warnings and additions to the profession and opposition have not been taken into account. The amendments of DeSUS, many amendments of DeSUS, have also not been taken into account. Although it is true and it must be said today that Members of the ruling coalition have worked very hard to accept at least all those amendments which were of principled nature and have been accepted because of the fact that they do not have concrete, in particular financial obligations. That's good, and I welcome it, and I also welcomed it to the home committee. The fundamental objectives, honourable Members and Members, of social protection policy are to ensure that individuals and their families, in cases where basic and social security cannot provide themselves, provide professional assistance and essential material resources for a decent life, allowing human dignity to be maintained. It is therefore a policy, an area where, in the most clear light, the relationship of the current policy to the social state, solidarity, social justice, integration of individuals at the edge back into society, to the pressures of people, to those who are the most difficult or unable to help themselves, i.e. to those groups of people who often, because of the difficult situation they are in, find it difficult to raise their voices themselves, find it difficult to lobby and even harder to succeed themselves. The resolution specifically sets out three circumstances that must have an important impact on the formulation of social protection policies. First time. The relatively favourable level of social security and protection we have in Slovenia, the low rate of poverty and income inequality, which is not high and is not increasing compared to the European Union. Another time. Life expectancy and a low birth rate and an ageing population. And the third time. The proportion of the inactive population that is too large and the level of education that is too low. In the LDS, we agree with the facts set out in the resolution. We would add one that is very important and it has been pointed out by the profession, i.e. the representatives of the profession who have been on the committee and which is the result of that first fact, which speaks of relatively favourable social security and development and the ageing population and the relatively good level of health care in Slovenia, and this is that the special groups of the population, in particular those with mental and physical development disorders, increase life as a result of the ageing of both these groups and their parents and guardians. This is a very important structural feature that has emerged in recent years. So, what's this all about? In Slovenia we have, for the time being, a one-time, relatively favourable level and social protection system, also thanks to the programme, the national social protection programme 2000-2005, which has expired, on the basis of which we have accelerated the development of services networks in this area, which is good. In Slovenia we have a relatively favourable economy of growth, which is good, and this gives us the opportunity to develop this area as well. At the same time, however, we have an accelerated growth in needs, an accelerated increase in the needs for such services resulting from the fact that we are an accelerated ageing society and a society in which life expectancy increases for all groups. And that should be our challenge, that is also the challenge of the Lisbon Strategy, and its resolution task that is ahead of us. This is the essence and this is the task of the resolution on the national programme. The fundamental question, therefore, is whether the national programme offers solutions to the challenges ahead by 2010. We don't think so at the LDS. The resolution does not solve the problem of increasing needs, does not offer sufficient and possible development and does not increase solidarity and social justice. On the contrary. This national social protection programme means a setback in increasing needs and means a lost opportunity in view of the real opportunities offered by GDP growth in Slovenia. The resolution shows that there is a proposal before you and before us, which means a long-term reduction in social security funds in gross domestic product as well as in the national budget. The fact is that Slovenia already has lower social protection expenditure in GDP than on average in the EU. While the proposed national social protection programme is planning to increase gross domestic product over this period of more than 40%, growth in expenditure for this area, for social protection, is projected at 22%, i.e. at half of gross domestic product growth. The share of social protection in gross domestic product will thus fall from 0.88% in 2005 to 0.73% in 2010. We cannot accept from the government the argument that the very area of social security is the area in which we must start and save the most in this country. Therefore, the most vulnerable groups of children, adolescents, elderly people, persons with mental and physical disabilities are those in which we need to start saving in this country, those in which we will start reforming and reducing public spending. We cannot agree that social protection is no longer a priority in this country. That it is not a problem to find 10, 15 billion for denationalisation beneficiaries and to give tax relief; that it is not a problem to allocate 2.5 billion for a glass government palace; that no one is concerned that the state is in charge of a billion euros, not just the government, not even the central bank. And now we have representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs explaining to us that we have to save for entering the euro area in the most vulnerable groups in this society, the Prime Minister not the Minister of Finance - the Ministry of Social Affairs! Really, it's the wrong world. This country is really changing. At the same time, one understands that there is not a social minister among us today who should have so much in his pants to come before us and say what he proposes in this national programme. Dear Members and Members! We all know demographic movements in Europe, we are all talking about ageing societies and demographic analyses show that around 2013, 2014 there will be the highest pressure and the least favourable relationship between the elderly and the rest of the population. It is therefore necessary to prepare for this period. In Slovenia the situation will be particularly unpleasant due to low fertility. This is also noted by today's resolution - notes. Unfortunately, however, the problem is not answered properly and not sufficiently. Aware of this problem, special attention has been paid to this, but not sufficient, in the first national social protection programme by 2005. Elderly care thus increased from 3.5% coverage to 4.7% in 2005. I am saying this because I want to say that the national social protection programme is important, that it is one of the fundamental instruments for improving services, in order to increase the scope of services and the quality of services. With the introduction of new programs such as day centres, help at home, sheltered dwellings, we have begun to introduce new forms of care for the elderly. It is true that these services have developed slightly slower than wishes, and the needs for them are large and should therefore be further developed. All analyses show that home aid is one of the most appropriate forms of help for the elderly. It does not exclude the elderly from the social environment in which they live, but it is home and, of course, the country that takes care of them through these programmes. So it is one of the most high-quality areas and services in the field of the protection of the elderly. Therefore, in the LDS Group of Members, we believe that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has given little attention to this area in the national programme. We believe that caring for older ones is one of those areas that must be given additional weight and additional resources. The resolution of the National Social Protection Programme also does not sufficiently define the obligations of social security users and does not show which rights will be paid and which will be free of charge. The model of public private partnership in the national social protection programme is not sufficiently defined by 2010. So far, it has been found that social security providers have been willing to invest their capital in various projects. However, in many cases we have learned to define very precise and clear criteria, mechanisms, guarantees and conditions for entering private capital into the public institutional protection network. And we are convinced that this resolution and the national programme was one of the opportunities and opportunities to learn the weaknesses that have undoubtedly been in the past and to build up such a system. The programme fails to define the role of NGOs. The expansion of the network is not sufficiently tailored to the needs of users. This is particularly true in the field of protection and work centres, living groups and care for adults with special needs. As explained by experts in this area, the remaining share of the involvement of these persons in institutional protection is the same as in 2000, which is totally inappropriate in this area in the context of the growth trend. We all know that as a result of advances in medicine, life expectancy also increases for persons with mental and physical disabilities. In a few years, there will be an additional increase in their institutional protection needs, as only half of the cases are now included in normal family life. At the same time, we forget that their parents, as I pointed out earlier, are getting older and are no longer able to care for them as well as quality and care for them. In doing so, a social inclusion promotion programme would be in place, thus releasing a certain number of capacities, notably through institutionalisation of people with serious developmental disabilities. The honourable assembly, Members of Parliament, in the LDS Group, we have examined the draft resolution of the national programme, examined it carefully, and, among other things, I have said that the relative share of the funds under this proposal is shrinking significantly for these purposes, in order to remove the development of social protection from the other priorities of the current government. The objectives set out at the beginning of the programme, such as contributing to greater social inclusion and integration of Slovenian society, promoting solidarity and reducing inequalities in all areas of life and work, or improving access to services and programmes and developing the network in line with the needs of users, are unfortunately only letters on paper, because the measures themselves and then the legislation which form part of the proposal for a national social protection programme by 2010 do not follow these objectives. On the contrary. As I said at the outset, and according to the proposal of the programme itself, Slovenia, on the basis of data from the European system of social protection statistics, which includes all social protection expenditure, noted the decline from 25.4 to 24.8% of gross domestic product, which was split between us from the average of 27% of the European Union. The latest figures for Eurostat are already more unfavourable for Slovenia, as Slovenia is now lagging behind with an EU average of 25 EU countries for an additional percentage of GDP. Slovenia is thus committed to the social protection of its citizens 24.8% of GDP, while the European Union 28%. We therefore call on the Government, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to re-examine their priorities, in particular those areas where saving and rationalisation is more meaningful and useful. We are confident that he can and can find many such areas. Social protection is particularly important and particularly sensitive within the social protection system. Children, adolescents, the elderly, persons with mental and physical disabilities, the unemployed affected by social protection will not raise their voices. They will not demonstrate or perform in front of the Slovenian public. A lot of them don't go to elections either. Therefore, the responsibility of policy to enable human dignity is even greater and more important. In the LDS Club, we believe that the proposed resolution of the national social protection programme for the period 2006 to 2010 does not provide sufficient and possible development of the social protection system in Slovenia. It means a step back, so we can't support it and we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Waste, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin with the opinion of the Social Democrats and thus point out how we should fully view the Social Democrats. In the way of implementing and monitoring the implementation of the national social protection programme, a specific task is also laid down for the national assembly. In addition to this task, which is being carried out today through the adoption of the national programme, the National Assembly is also required to amend the legislation in force, to ensure that measures are laid down in other sectoral laws to prevent the emergence of social protection issues, to monitor the achievement of the agreed objectives of this programme and to set annual priorities when adopting the national budget and other measures of the single-economic and social policy. And why did I start drawing up an opinion in the end? Because we have at least two experiences from the Social Democrats, which do not show the role of the National Assembly in this light as it is written in this national programme. At the time of the adoption of the 2006 budget and also the 2007 budget, we have tabled a number of amendments aimed at providing greater funds for social protection programmes and active employment policies, and unfortunately these amendments have not been adopted, which has already indicated that the funds allocated to such programmes will be undervalued and insufficient. We have also not seen in any of the proposed legislation so far, at least not in this mandate that it is accompanied by any opinion on what will be the social protection issue resulting from the newly adopted legal provisions. Therefore, at least as expected, they could adopt a recommendation that would impose such an assessment on the law-makers. And now let me start where it usually starts at the address. The resolution of the national social protection programme brings back the years 2006 - 2010, which means that in good works it overlaps what we call the next financial perspective. If we also consider the next financial perspective of the European Union from the point of view of the Lisbon Strategy and the stated objectives, the objective of development and efficiency is also to create a criterion called social justice. And if we are to measure from this point of view, it is necessary to ask whether the national programme contains such provisions that make it possible to believe that the desire for competitiveness, economic performance and development will also be associated with what is essential for the Social Democrats not only in Slovenia, but also in the European Union, that is solidarity and social justice. Unfortunately, according to some indicators, which are measurable and can be seen from the resolution, to target or achieve 22% growth for social programmes, while gross domestic product is expected to grow by 46%, this programme, which is ahead of us, is restrictive, not developmental. In doing so, ambition loses its meaning. I would like to draw attention to another feature. The basic points point out that each individual is responsible for his or her social security. If this is a fundamental provision, then social justice, solidarity loses some of its fundamental weight, which they have in their basic origins. Social Democrats are aware that the national social protection programme is a legally prescribed document to be adopted, but we believe that it is the responsibility of the government and the coalition. This is especially because the way in which this act was adopted has also been such that we cannot be satisfied with the level of achievement of social dialogue. This has also been demonstrated on the Committee, and on the parent working body, where the number of additions were made to both service providers and users or experts, were generally not supported if they did not come from coalition types. So once again, we can say that this act is not exactly an example of what it has written as its first objective, it is social inclusion. This also requires a higher level of dialogue and a greater consensus on the acts adopted. We are missing the necessary analysis of the effects of the current national programme because we believe that more convincing items could be derived from this in the forecast national programme as well. We cannot also decide that deregulation and partnership between public and private, most often only narrows down at the request of pluralisation, since we have not received any other extensive interpretations on the labour market. It is simply a programme that should focus on vulnerable groups, children, older people and people with special needs in its effects, and most of the comments came from their own species, so we do not intend to join those who support this resolution in a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word "magic." Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! With the National Social Protection Programme by 2010, our country has been reshaping the basic objectives of social protection policy for the next five years and is preparing different strategies and measures to achieve them. The fundamental starting point of social protection policy remains the same as it has been so far, and it is the task of the State and the local community in particular to ensure such general conditions or conditions for individuals to be able to function creatively and to realize their or their development potential. Of course, citizens must also, by their activity and by their best means in all areas of their lives, achieve a level of quality of life comparable to that of others in the environment and meet the criteria of human dignity. However, if individuals are unable or unable to provide themselves with social security and some agreed prosperity due to the functioning of external and internal factors, they are entitled to help themselves. Therefore, the fundamental objective of the social protection policy should be to provide the individual and his family, in such cases, with professional assistance and essential material resources for a decent life and for enabling human dignity. The principles underpinning the implementation of the social protection system are: ensuring human dignity, social justice, solidarity and the individual's responsibility to ensure his or her own social integrity and social security. At all levels within the social protection system, however, the guidelines must be equal access and equal opportunities, voluntary inclusion, free choice, individualisation of treatment, cost-effective management of budgetary resources and agreement between operators and users. The national social programme will have significant financial implications for public expenditure mainly due to the need to expand the network of social protection institutions and to improve the accessibility of the wider range of users, due to the need for new employment for social protection programme providers and services and the necessary investments in facilities where new social security services and programmes will be implemented, while also in this period new capacities for the protection of older persons will be provided to a large extent through private capital investments. Of course, this will take into account the budgetary possibilities of each financial year. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the national programme is set up very ambitiously and boldly by 2010, but we are drawing the path of development in all areas of social protection policy. The resolution provides that the budget expenditure for the implementation of social security policy will increase from 57.7 billion in 2005 to a good 70 billion in 2010. This means that the growth index in the period 2005-2010 is around 122 and is lower than the projected GDP growth index in the development strategy of Slovenia. However, it is also necessary to mention immediately the fact that the projected budgetary expenditure does not cover investments in social protection by private individuals estimated at 7 billion per year and 28 billion over the whole period. The resolution foresees the inclusion of private capital in the implementation of social protection programmes. This is mainly the case with investments in infrastructure, facilities and equipment for the implementation of social protection. Taking these investments into account, the social welfare fund growth index would be 134, which means a substantial increase in relation to 122. However, since the figures themselves say less in the resolution, let us look at the comparisons between the results achieved in the current national programme and the forecasts of the national social protection programme by 2010 in a number of cases, first on social protection programmes. A total of 314 cities were provided for the network of maternity homes and shelters in 2005, of which 126 were in safe houses and 188 were in safe houses. By 2010, a total of 350 cities had been envisaged, i.e. 11% increase; 140 cities would be provided in maternity homes and 210 in safe houses. The following example, 22 day centres with a capacity of up to 250 daily and 10 advisory offices with 1,400 users worked in the network of day centres and networks of counselling centres and advocacy for long-term mental development problems. The resolution by 2010 provides for the establishment of a network of day centres with a total capacity of at least 350 permanent posts, representing a 40% increase, and a network of counselling and advocacy centres for people with long-term mental problems, which will provide coverage across all statistical regions. In addition, there are a number of programmes for drug users and the implementation of a network of counselling and social rehabilitation centres with illicit drugs, where the scope of the programmes is expanding and more even coverage across the country will be ensured. Let us look at the current situation in some areas of social security services and compare it with the expected activities in the national social protection programme by 2010. In 2005, 4,732 users benefited from home-based assistance services replacing and moving beneficiaries into institutional protection. The proposed resolution provides that social care will be provided at home for at least 10,000 people over 65 years of age and for at least 900 other adults, which means more than 100% increase. In 2005, 900 foster families provided institutional care services for children and adolescents deprived of normal family life who could not live with their parents because of their problems in growing up or disadvantaged situations. The resolution provides for the maintenance of the current number of foster families, as there are still unused capacities. For the purposes of organised protection in day centres for persons over 65 years of age, 200 seats were provided in 2005. This resolution will provide at least 1,000 seats in 2010. Similarly to the protection and care of protected dwellings for older persons, where 364 seats were provided in 2005, it is envisaged that in 2010 services will be provided to at least a thousand 660 housing residents, of which a thousand 300 are new. In the institutional protection of persons with disabilities in physical and mental development, which are included in the programmes of protection and work centres and need organised care and protection, 662 cities were provided in 2005. The resolution will provide at least 1,100 full-day seats and 30% of them in housing groups. And the last of these data, or the last of these comparisons. For the purposes of institutional protection of physically disabled, damaged or long-term chronically ill persons, 160 seats were provided in 2005, with a resolution providing at least 300 seats, of which at least 25% of the places for various forms of organised accommodation in the community. The proposed national social protection programme expands the scope of the social protection network in a number of areas, provides a minimum level of achievement even more than previously, and brings social protection services and programmes closer to users, as well as expanding the range of operators with non-governmental operators. This programme also actually introduces a good part of the social reform programme. The programme was created in cooperation with various experts in theory and practice and, more importantly, was complemented by proposals from various executive organisations and their umbrella associations, of course in the context of the possibility of spending on this area. The numerous objectives set out in the resolution are the minimum for which the Government undertakes to implement them in the period 2006 to 2010. More than that can be done if such needs are met and sufficient financial resources are provided. That is why we will support the program in New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party, because we are sure it is of quality and, importantly, it is also feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and following a general debate on the motion for a resolution. The first one has the word, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Director-General, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am pleased to see that from the baselines of the resolution on the national social protection programme for the five-year period from 2006 to 2010, the basic objective of social protection policy is to make clear, in cases where basic social security cannot be guaranteed by itself, the basic objective of social protection policy is to provide professional assistance and essential material resources for a person's life, thus enabling human dignity. Hence, it is not just an individual but a person and his family. Family is the center and foundation of society. A company that doesn't take this axioma seriously enough and responsible enough is not good. Human resources are the primary element of competitiveness and the carrier of economic development and cradle and school is family. The fact that we are beginning to transfer the family functions that we have been transferring back to the country for several decades to the family is largely a consequence of demographic conditions and development. Once the population pyramids have turned into wildfires, the state can no longer finance many areas to the extent that they were when the demographic picture was different. The way we transfer these functions back to the family depends on whether we survive as a society. They should be carried along in such a way as to encourage parents to make generous decisions about life. For the moment, Slovenian history and the development of Slovenia in general, I think it is crucial that planned reforms also identify measures and means to encourage families, not as social assistance to people in distress, but as the most urgent and profitable investment in economic development. Demographic trends show that the existence of the Slovenian people has been threatened in the long term, as fertility has been halved in recent decades, and therefore the country's priority must be to pursue such coherence in all areas of life, so that the demographic indicators of our society will in the long term reflect the balance of all generations. The state must develop conditions that will allow citizens to decide without fear for the birth of children and also to respect and appreciate without fear the presence of the elderly and the sick around them. As an entity in the resolution, the family is mentioned 60 times, indicating that the orientation of this government is aimed at supporting the importance and quality of family life as one of the foundations of our society and our future. The family has an irreplaceable role for the community, so we will no longer allow the family to go to the brink of an existing minimum and neglect its important role in the country as a community of citizens. There should also be sufficient room for the necessary investment in education and education. In this respect, the resolution on the national social protection programme is also compatible with our coalition agreement. In my opinion and belief, the resolution also foresees a favourable solution to the protection of the elderly. Although in 1997 we adopted a programme for the protection of older persons, in the field of social protection until 2005, which was discussed by the honourable fellow mags. Robbery, today we have definitely too long a waiting line outside the homes of the elderly, especially in the countryside. This is not permissible, and it is not an older man worth it. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is responsible for this; some projects are already in the implementation phase. But more needs to be done in my belief in raising society's awareness of how to treat the elderly. Raising society’s awareness of the equivalency of all life periods and fulfilling the unique tasks for each individual in them will also lead to awareness of the age and problems that this period brings. To put an end to the vicious cycle of age discrimination, members of the active generation should offer their power to the elderly. On the other hand, older people need to be encouraged to defend themselves, to be aware of their own strength, which remains under-expressed in current frameworks. The life experiences of older people and their present number are, therefore, the strength and potential of all, at least some, but only partially to help themselves to prevent a vicious circle of discrimination that puts pressure on them at an age. In addition to specific assistance to the elderly and the creation of material situations, society should strive to change people's minds, to eliminate prejudices before age and to raise mutual respect and coexistence between different generations so that each of them can contribute to life in society. Slovenian media must be much more involved in this. There is, in my opinion, an important and relevant document on the implementation of social protection for the next five years, which is why I will support it as well as the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! The resolution on the national social protection programme 2006-2010 is a document which, in my opinion, should be the basis and basis for the further adoption of social policy of social programmes, social start-ups in general, which is the most basic for a resolution which is intended to pursue the objective of social protection policy for people, not to list other objectives that we are all familiar with. However, I must conclude that this document is another product of the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family, which I cannot personally, as a Social Democrat, give a positive assessment and cannot support. Basically, I'll say, paper brings everything, but life is everything else. In the grave, I would like to point out to you a few segments or my concerns why I cannot support this document or resolution. The ministry has followed its way of working, which we know is that it does not like or include in the drafting of documents, social partners' laws, the professional public, civil society and all that I do not speak any other policy. In my view, this resolution is exactly the result of the work of the Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and the Family. And I also have to ask myself why the Minister's ignorant attitude is that he does not come to this Chamber today and listen to such positive and negative evidence from politicians. The second segment or aspect accompanying such a resolution is also that if we are to pursue further procedures, we need financial resources. This raises the question of how the government or the minister thinks to pursue the objectives of the social state while at the same time reducing funds in the budget in this area. It is interesting that the programme is based on the Minister's optimistic announcement that 5.3% of economic growth will be in Slovenia, but at the same time there is no funding in the state budget for the first two years of implementation of the programme. I could list here other illogical moves, ambiguities, and since time is chasing me, I won't. Thirdly, what I would like to point out, and also questionable to the Social Democrats, is that the proposed resolution is certainly a step towards privatising social protection in our country. In particular, I can agree that it is necessary to allow private capital to be included in this part of the story, but under certain conditions and, in particular, under certain conditions which all should nevertheless form together. However, in this part, the resolution is poorly prepared, inconsistent and inappropriate. It is not set, simply to say, there are no established criteria or rules for this game. I have to tell you myself, and you probably know that private capital follows the logic of profit. This is fine, but the area of social protection is certainly something specific and I personally believe that there is no room for political games or, above all, for people. I would like to say that the resolution does not cover the older population. In Slovenia, the number of older people is increasing. European trends also show that the population is old and this older population is in need of special care or social security, which is not sufficiently recognised in this resolution. I could mention a lot of shortcomings and ambiguities, but I don't want to get political peaks on people's traumas, by pointing out that there were not enough societies involved in this resolution that deal mainly with people's help. Above all, I say this for the Society of Co-existence, the Society of Vezi, Sunchek and so on, because I know that we all got a bunch of letters, requests, initiatives, etc. Let me finish. I cannot support a personal resolution because I am convinced that it is not possible to increase social security by reducing the social rights already acquired. This resolution raises the question of whether Slovenia is going towards the abolition of the social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. By the way, allow me an observation or a request to ask all those colleagues and colleagues who do not want to discuss this to tell me, because this will speed up our work. Since it's Friday, I think we'll all be so much more happy. Otherwise, it's Mr. Rezman's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My colleague Znidaršič has already said that we are critical of the document we are talking about in our parliamentary group. In the DeSUS Group, we have greater ambitions, as well as greater commitments, programme and other commitments, in order to do more for the social state and for the quality of life, for the better life of Slovenes and Slovenes. I doubt that we could only speak positively about what the document brings us, although of course there is something about it and it is right to look at the things that we think are perhaps the most lacking. Let me continue to say that it is impossible to ascribe this document, that it is impossible to aclamate even after our assessment of the work of the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, the family and the disabled. And perhaps it is right to face some of the points of view critically in order to improve this. It's work. However, not only the work, but also the communication that we find not only on our part, but also on the part of many, not only the parties, but also the professional organisations or institutions working in this area, because this would probably contribute to better progress, to better progress, to a different resolution, to a more sophisticated resolution, and I hope that then to better implementation of the programme as it will be adopted. The basic conclusion is no doubt. First time. The relative share of funds for this area is decreasing. Another time. The absolute number of needs in this area is increasing and, thus, the scissors are opening up, the poor ministry promises us that the scissors will be closed after private capital enters this area. It is also true that the conditions for the work of municipalities have also deteriorated in this opening, as the type of services transferred to the competences of the municipalities are not accompanied by appropriate means. This is, according to our basic opinion, and this shows that we will be paid negatively in the coming years when we implement the resolution or programme. The main criticism was intended to do so, although I understand all these criticisms, that the older generation was under-emphasized, that the generation or group of people who are handicapped were under-emphasized, those who are in need of protection and work centres and other similar institutions. I estimate that young people are somehow released. All too little was designed for some programs that were designed, which even have a large part of the material base ready, to be implemented. Let me remind you of the houses of refuge. This is one such case. We have built three such houses in Slovenia, all three are empty and nothing points to this, although they have been empty for a long time to be activated, although the needs in this area are large and we also find in the resolution a declaration of favor to show greater will, a greater willingness to help these younger children who are at risk of suffering families or otherwise. There is no indication that the Ministry would change its position with regard to the family assistant, otherwise it is noted that it would be slightly less burdensome for municipal budgets, but the foundation of the dilemma remains. Before this institution, which we welcome, was established, the congregations were not burdened with it. But when it was introduced and implemented, they are, and the correction goes only in the sense that they will be a little less. We believe, however, that these services must be services to be financed from the state budget. Just a few more words about concessions. For example, I myself run as mayor for the home of the elderly relatively unsuccessful. We are also looking for concessionaires, but, of course, concessionaires are entering this market for a purpose and entering the market, which is for them the market. Social services and social programmes should in particular be market adjustment. And not only to speak negatively, let me say that I highly commend the ambition to have more intergenerational centres, but again there are 15, which is a significant understatement for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The time of transition is also slowly running out in Slovenia. Some have succeeded, some have even become emboldened. But there are also groups of people who have lost everything at this time of transition, work, earnings, any way of surviving, and of course the country must take care of them. Take care of the time when the rich become richer and the poor become even poorer. Today we are considering a resolution on the national social protection programme. The Council of State found out what Comrade Rezman had also pointed out, and the scissors are opening up strongly in this area. At the same time as we are planning a lot of social protection activities, we are actually reducing funds, and this is also noted by the State Council, which says that the share of social protection funds in gross domestic product is falling in the long term from 0,88 last year to 0.73% in 2010. The necessary social security funds from the health insurance office are also being reduced. The fundamental objective of social protection policy is, as the applicant wrote down, to an individual and his family in the event that basic social security cannot be guaranteed, to provide professional assistance and essential material resources for a decent life and to enable human dignity to be maintained. And now that I have a little look at this resolution, I have some questions. My colleague Han also talked about the relationship Sunshine, in fact, he mentioned it. And when, in a resolution in Chapter 5.2, institutional protection services for children and minors with moderate, severe or severe developmental disorders in the institution, day care, in another family or in another organisational form, I observe what is expected, I cannot go beyond the question I have put to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Policy and is also connected with the Sunchek Association, which has drawn up the law, the labour law or the working title of the law. I would like to point out that, while legislation allows parents of children, vulnerable children and children with special needs to stay at home with their parents, one of them. This is certainly a very important fact whether it is also necessary to provide professional assistance in the education process and the involvement of these children in pre-school education. In the area of pre-school education for these children, children at risk, children with special needs are not cared for. This should be taken into account when planning activities. This law has been prepared as a working material and is likely to need to be slowly put into parliamentary procedure. When we talk about older people, it is very important that efforts to keep the elderly as long as possible in their circle, the family circle, to strengthen these efforts, including the so-called protected dwellings, are very, very important. Of course, there are people who need a home for the protection of adults, and this has already been pointed out. The needs are great, and the cities are not enough. Not only in the countryside, it happens in cities. As an example, I can refer to the municipality of Velenje, where we have problems with a home for the protection of adults. We're not happy with what we have today. We want a new home, suitable for the inhabitants and residents of this valley, who have helped in the past that development in the valley is as it is, but they are waiting at the door at old age, otherwise it is not literally, outside the door for the protection of adults and there is no room for them in it. Even if it is, this home is not quality enough for us to be content with it. A while ago, I also asked the Minister about the award of concessions and the construction of a home for the protection of adults. In view of what I have said, I am listening to plans, I am reading resolutions in this area, but at least in the valley from which I come, there is not much that can be done. Or in the light of the experience I have with last year's invitation to tender and the result, where out of the four concessions they have received as many as three institutions set up by the local parishes, I shall also ask ours in our valley of the local parishes to set up institutions to apply when the concession is granted, and then they will receive this concession. Is this really the only time we have this government or this minister? I do not think that this is the right way and that it is necessary to listen to the local communities or bodies representing these local communities. Here you also wrote that some things will be transferred or concessions will be distributed, in practice a model of the gradual transfer of the performance function in the field of social security institutions, such as a few homes for older, special welfare institutions for adults and labour centres from countries to other entities, provided that the new entity contributes to the further development, higher quality and expansion of the network. And again, I run against the content that I have asked in the question of the Member State, why, at a time when there is a large shortage of vacancies in the adult home, the Ministry is leading a policy to grant concessions to those who have fewer seats in these institutions and also get additional points at the invitation of those who offer less. It's illogical at a time when five places are too small. If the cities were enough, of course, there is healthy competition and then let these institutions compete with each other in a way that improves the acquisition of new users or customers. At the moment, however, it is necessary to ensure that all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia have equal opportunities to enter an adult home. And here I expect more activity from the Ministry of Labour. The resolution is a text from which it is possible to understand where the Ministry's policy is directed. However, this is certainly not a text that I could be satisfied with, especially because of this, because of the experience I have in this area and the material attached, I am concerned about accompanying social events.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolić has the floor, and then, if the situation is as it is in the Chamber right now, Mr Germič and Mr Gulič, you will be able to prepare. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, and once again, welcome! I believe that a rather extensive substance of the national programme has been set up very ambitiously and boldly. I will touch on the areas of improving access to services and programmes in a less developed area in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is very important that the resolution is written down, and I also expect that this will be done, so that in the coming five-year period special care will be given to regional supply balance. We know what is very worrying that today, in less developed areas of the country, the development of operators or the accessibility of users to public service services and programmes does not reach the average level of the country. I therefore welcome the proposal that funding for activities will be needed in such a way as to take into account the specificities of individual environments, which are also characteristic of the area where I come from, this is Obsotelje and Kozianska, where we are facing a large degree of unemployment, with a large demographic problem, the over-average share of the old people, especially in the rural area of our country. And if we're real, this situation can't be changed overnight. For these areas, it is therefore necessary to lay down the criteria for additional investments from the State budget in the infrastructure for the implementation of social security activities. While developed areas need to be encouraged to invest from their own resources under favourable conditions in measures to ensure a higher level of social security for their populations. As the difference between developed and underdeveloped areas in the Republic of Slovenia has only increased and increased in recent years, what social policy we will pursue in the so-called underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Slovenia is now very important. The document under consideration specifically covers measures to contribute to the positive social development of these areas. I expect that we will allow its operational implementation through the annual budgets, where maximum financial background will have to be provided. I will support the proposed national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And, as I say, it's Mr. Germich's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As the Head of our Member Club has already put forward a number of arguments in his implementation, why a motion for a resolution on a national social protection programme is not acceptable to our Group of Members, I would like to make further arguments in certain segments. We all agree that the document before us is an extremely important document, a fundamental document governing this area, so there is certainly no comprehensive analysis of the status achieved and the section of social protection that has been reached by 2005, which has been covered by the resolution until this period. Therefore, due to the absence of all analytical data, it was not possible to clearly identify all the baselines in the design of the public service network or to identify the measurement of progress in the growth of various other programmes, such as NGO programmes, the dissemination of a network of care for users of different services, the expansion of concessions and the promotion of the private sector, or anything specified in the present resolution. As a result, the resolution contains individual errors and assessments of the number of needs and the absence of plans to expand the aid network or promote various activities. As a result, we have had more than 30 pages of comments from different organisations, which have been more or less or have not been included in the drafting of the text of this resolution, as we have been preparing ourselves for the meeting of the parent working body. Of course, they were dissatisfied with the proposed text, so they tried to update the content of the resolution with the latest warnings on the home working body. We regret that this has gone poorly on our working body, but today, when we have made some improvements and moves forward on the committee, the ruling coalition proposes additional amendments that move the text of the resolution back to the starting point. Today it has been said here that the challenges ahead are a reflection of social events. On the one hand, in Slovenian society, the reduced number of births, on the other hand longer lifespans, of course changes the demographic area and therefore there are also different needs, increasing needs and, on the other hand, it will be necessary to service all these needs. Of course, it is only possible to service these needs by providing adequate financial support. That is why I am joining those, and I sceptically assess the increased volume of resources with very low growth rates in view of the needs and expected economic growth and growth of the social gross product. Of course, I cannot agree with the fact that the index you are aiming to grow for this area in the local community and the obligations to be covered by health care [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] significantly greater than what is envisaged in the projection to ensure these rights by 2010 from State resources. Of course, the argument here is that, through the calculation of appropriate spending, the country provides local communities with an appropriate scale, does not hold, since in this way you are speaking with different indices precisely about transferring to the local community those commitments to an increased extent, for which the state itself will not provide resources in the future. Here again, I would like to reiterate that there is a very clear indication that the financial justification for the resolution is weak, as the share of the social gross product to cover this programme by 2010 is actually reduced from 0.88% of the social gross product to 0.73% of the social product on the ground that the growth of the social product will be very high and that the volume of these assets will be sufficient in this direction. There is also no way to overlook in the opening presentation the way the Ministry's representative interpreted it with absolute numbers of billions. However, when we speak to a relative extent, we see the backlog of this area to a significant extent. I would also like to touch here on the specific numbers that can be understood for the budgets already adopted for 2006 and 2007, where it is clear that certain plans in this document are not defined, as the network of public service and other organisations is largely expanding and increasing, which is why the draft budget for social protection for 2006 and 2007 has not been followed, since it is realistically seen from the specific figures that these areas are earmarked for less resources. I will be specific, for 2006 for the area of regulation and social protection control, the funds are reduced by 0.4%, for the protection of children and families is reduced by 0.5%, for the implementation of social protection programmes is a reduction by minus 1.2%, for 2007 the increase is not followed by the expected inflation, and for the programmes listed are representative indices from minutes 3% of plus 1, which is a completely unrealistic expectation for the implementation of this resolution. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, above all, active employment policies are also substantially changing and reducing the volume of resources allocated to this area, which of course does not provide a bright perspective for this area. Today, much has already been said that for individual groups which should be very clearly defined in this or more precisely defined in this resolution, this document is lacking. I would also touch on the argument that the issue of the elderly in this resolution is somehow overlooked. The argument that the Ministry's representatives interpreted at the committee's own meeting to cover this area more precisely in the older people's protection strategy is not true, as this document, namely, the resolution on the national social protection programme, in fact, defines all groups in need of social protection and, of course, the strategy for the protection of the elderly could only be an upgrade. That is why I also consider this segment to be poorly addressed in this respect. If we touch on this in the normative work, this deficiency becomes even greater. We've been alerting here to two elements. The first element, which is and unfortunately has not been adopted where we were warned in the fourth chapter, is that in the fourth chapter on measures to implement strategies and achieve objectives, strategy b states under the first measure that the Ministry of Labour will make public the intention to expand the public service or the envisaged introduction of new networks for a longer period and thus encourage any private or non-governmental operators to organise and properly prepare themselves for the call. Here a very important addition was proposed to complement and incorporate the basic conditions in this measure. Why the basic conditions? Only the choice of concessionaires at the last invitation to tender refers to the fact that some have been preparing for these calls for a long time, at the last minute, those who, of course, may have suspected that some of the changes to the terms and conditions within the scope of this call could have been followed and those who might or might not have been selected who could have prepared their projects in advance of clear rules so as to reach a positive decision. I would like to see the successful assumptions for obtaining such funds from the private sector compensate for this deficit you are talking about. Of course, I would point out that the resolution should also define clear criteria and criteria, in what way, because in no case should the scope of social protection be shared among those who are able to achieve their material state or to afford certain social protection services, while some such services would not be available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Now let Mr Gulic speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. I will not be speaking for long, because there has been a lot of crystallization, clearing up, but, of course, there should be more talk about this issue in the previous period, it is said in previous discussions, and it does not appear today that there would be much interest in the applicants and, of course, those associated with them. This resolution on the national programme, the reduction of social protection for the period 2006-2010, has many pitfalls. But I think the most important word that's missing is the reduction. Things are about to go down. Of course, something can be seen from the national programme itself, when some numbers are shown to be so misleading that it would still appear as if it were some form of disenfranchisement to all who need social assistance, let it be young, old, mentally ill, unemployed. On the other hand, such a fast - running calculation shows that things are shrinking. They will, of course, decrease even more because they speak only of what will be given, how the market, which this resolution also foresees, will work, and we will see or probably worse. All those who intend to engage in public-private work with social programmes, social activities, are not exactly said to be socially sensitive. Such examples, the plundering of what is left, we have enough in the world. Here, too, something can be seen when those who need help become the source of income for all those who feel they need it, especially the resources that come in this name. The resolution on the national reduction programme is, therefore, ahead of us. Surely he does not promise good things to all who are in need of help. On the other hand, it has already been set up so historically in the starting points, something is happening, what is not taken into account, what demographic calculations predict, what is not taken into account, the ageing of the population, it is not taken into account that those who need help to move to the right of the age scale are saying that they are getting older, so that, of course, their needs are certainly different in a few years as they are today, and there will be more of these people. All these things are in some way either omitted or minimized. Even on the committee itself, it has been seen that some things are actually with a trick and even with a vote to back off, coming before us today, in fact, a strange game that should not be like that in this human work at least. But it's obvious to the proponents and those who are close to them, it doesn't matter. The main thing is that this segment will in some way be protected, this segment of governance and compliance with its obligations, moral or legal. The attitude towards those on the social side for such or other reasons seems to be getting worse. In addition to the decomposition of some other systems relating to human beings, this system appears to be falling apart, and quite carefree. I would remind all of us again how the Minister responds to the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee, that if he does not come, he disappears if he does not seem to answer, does not answer, does not care. And this person, who is not only in a position bound to be more social, even after education, and probably has made up his mind from some inner impulses. So it's some kind of mission he's giving up. And, of course, you can see all of this through this "diet" list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members! The essence of the country's social policy resolution is to ensure social security for those who cannot provide social security for themselves, cannot, but do not, because an accident, illness or the current situation has led them to the fact that they do not have a decent and worthwhile life. The resolution foresees solving the problem, a professional approach, not just money, safe houses, resolutions, prohibitions, laws. Many imagine that social support is eternal, that it must only be increased. But no one wonders where we're going to take what we're going to do to fill the cash register, this mother's box. Social assistance is in distress or during a certain period, not compensation for carelessness and work. Example: Because work is not properly valued, especially physical work, many people have no interest, incentives to work, because if they work, stop or reduce their various social transfers, scholarships, children's allowance, unemployment benefits, they increase their contributions to kindergarten and so on. Therefore, there is no interest for young people to report or register with the extra-legal community, to take over farms from elderly parents, to register assets and so on - because if they do, they have fewer. I wonder what kind of country it is not to stimulate work, innovation. Even so, you can get a bump around every corner so it's not worth doing. I think this is mainly because work is not a value because learning is not a value. The proposed resolution addresses problems, and people need to learn how to fish, not just share them. We also need to be aware that we are primarily responsible for our social security. My opinion is that caring for the elderly is not only a concern of the state, but, first of all, the concern of every individual as young as possible, even when we are planning a family, when we are creating property, when we are healthy and young. Taking care of the protection of young people, women and all people from violence is not only the concern of this government, this coalition, but we must be concerned about all of us as individuals who are raising children, the youth we need to be exemplary to them. Dealing with situations of violence is often too late for individuals. We simply cannot allow ourselves to experience similar incidents, such as those shown yesterday in Trenj, which not only showed one current problem, but also the problem of the schooling youth and their violence. Where did we come from? The youth can pour out material goods, in the presence of the teacher undresses, is during study, breaks, disturbs other students, all because we have no limits because there are no values and there is no responsibility. And not because we don't have a social state. In Novi Slovenija we are not only against violence in families and against children, but against all violence in society. And there's not much to the social state about it, violence isn't always a problem of materially endangered people, on the contrary. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. To prove how fast I'm running this session today, let me say we've already reached Mrs. Shirce.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	You surprised me. Actually, Mrs. Uhan gave me quite a few inspirations. For today's discussion of the national programme, there are quite a few inspirations to this moment in the National Assembly. An exhibition that we have in the lobby of the National Assembly, in spirit, a debate on where we will take, who will fill the mother's box, so that we can then give it, whether it will be given by God or given by someone else, or whether it should be taken into account in this national programme, that famous said 'oro et lab', and God will help you. Because this national programme, as has already been highlighted several times today, especially by my colleagues and colleagues in my parliamentary group, raises a huge question of what will happen to social care with the so-called reduction of social protection, which has just been said. There is also a certain ambiguity that arises when we put the national programme in line with the proposed reforms discussed by the government in the short term, this lack of consistency between what is written on the one hand in the reform programme and what is written in this national programme certainly exists. [[...]] If you look for an answer, now I don't know if reforms are going to fail or if such a national social protection programme as we have before us is going to fail. But let me go back to the national programme we have now, which is until 2005. The development of professional social assistance networks has also been one of the objectives of this programme. At that time, the State included concessions in this network and included various operators in these concessions and planned to upgrade them for a network of different services which were not otherwise designated as a public service and supplemented and enriched them. What I think this programme brings, in particular, is the fear or confrontation with the substantial greater total privatisation of social networks, which, of course, can be tolerated to some extent if the rules are clear, but at the same time certain experiences already put in place by Mr Drobnic, however, give some reservations. The last invitation to tender, when it came to obtaining concessions for the performance of institutional protection in nursing homes, was made very clear, and we have already talked about this in this National Assembly, on the proposal of Mr Kontič's question on the question of the question of the question of the question that most of the entities established by the local parishes received a majority within a specific invitation. We know this story, we wouldn't be restoring it, because it is a solved and also an explained story about Karitas and their activities. I will not continue for a limited period of time, but I would like to point out this weakness, which, on the one hand, correctly puts us before the question of whether we still have a social state that would put social security in the system for all those who cannot afford it in their own work, or whether it is only a country that will work on the principle of division in ways of different social assistance and support by its own discretion and will also fall on the shoulders of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged parts of the population. Let me also point out that we are not meeting something in the proposed document when the Minister took over the role of Minister at the hearing and elsewhere promised to devote himself to more violence and domestic violence. We are no longer facing the promised law, at least not in the government's work, nor in this programme. We are facing some kind of a declaration resolution on this subject, which is certainly not good. After all, even in the light of what you said today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Another similar jump on the list will make me happy because it's time for the mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable assembly, representatives of the Ministry! I'd like to talk about two themes. One is how the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs implements what has been given to them in the State budget this year in order to ensure adequate social security. And secondly, I'd like to talk about the future, I'd like to talk about the financial projections, like they're supposed to be in the document that's in front of us. I regret that in Slovenia we have an 11% higher unemployment rate in January, a higher registered unemployment rate in the employment institution compared to January 2005. At the same time, I regret that we have a 4.8% lower monthly employment rate than the year before, January 2006, compared to January 2005. This means that the possibility of obtaining employment on the margin, as we call it, has been reduced by almost a fifth. What's the cause of this? It is difficult to say what is behind this, but there is no doubt that one of the important reasons, in addition to the general economic environment, is that, in the national budget, we do not, as has been planned, clearly earmarked for the policy of actively promoting employment. It is well-known, and this was well-known in the discussions that we had both at the 2005 budget rebalancing and at the 2006 budget, that the new government decided to devote less money to these policies. Instead of some 22 billion, as foreseen at the time of adoption of the 2005 draft budget, the new government has decided to reduce this money by 10 percentage points from 22 to around 20 and a half billion. However, the implementation of the 2005 budget shows that only 16 billion of these 20.5 billion have been realised. So 1/5 less than was available in the state budget. I said earlier that the employment option in January 2006 was reduced by about one-fifth compared to January 2005, while data on the implementation of the budget in the field of active employment policy also showed that the ministry realised 1/5 of the funds. Of course, it is true that there are many reasons for this, including, among other things, the absorption of funds from the European Social Fund, but it is known that in some other policies, such as the use of agricultural resources or, if you want to, to a certain extent, the implementation of tourist facilities, procedures are carried out in such a way that the state is making advances first and then requires funds from European funds. The question therefore arises whether it is only an expression of the inefficiency of the government or whether it is a policy, a policy that is not a good policy. In theory and in the last 15 years of managing public spending, an active employment policy, as demonstrated by a number of cases, including audited by the Court of Auditors, is undoubtedly one of the more successful policies. This government, according to data for 2005, has decided to devote less money first, to give less money to it, and then to realize the purpose and also to realize the volume of about one fifth less than we have set out in the state budget. That's the past. If this past continues in the future, then there is very little chance that we will be able to reduce unemployment in Slovenia. Of course, work and the ability to generate income from work is in fact the main or one of the most important measures to prevent people from coming into some kind of social protection programme. However, the data provided by the Ministry, in particular the estimates for the coming years related to the resolution on the national social protection programme for the period, show exactly the opposite. If I had said earlier that the money for active employment policy is falling, so we have more unemployed on the sidelines, I would expect more money to be allocated to social security. The figures show that, according to gross domestic product shares from 2005 to 2010, this percentage is reduced by around 14, 15 percentage points. I want to know why. On the inside, I would like to ask the Ministry only for one very narrow segment of the programme, which is a matter of health care or investment or, if you want, financial projections in the field of healthcare. It is well known that the Slovenian population is ageing, it is well known that one of the major problems of long-lived society is precisely in the need to provide health care to a greater extent and that appropriate prescribing of hospital beds intended for treatment is also necessary in other types of facilities, especially health care. On page 34, however, the figures show that in individual years the Ministry does not devote any additional money to this, and virtually remains unchanged. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if you would answer these questions in the debate below, as to how the ministry is intended to prevent the increase in unemployment, if it is not realized or if we have less money, for an active employment policy. If unemployment increases, how do you plan to ensure equal levels of social security for social protection and if the share of social protection funds in gross domestic product is decreasing. These two just don't go together. The only possible decision I am making is that in the time of this government, as the motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2006-2010 shows, the government has decided to save money in this area. Whether this is the real area of saving or not, of course you must tell us. I'm guessing it's not. I am of the opinion that this is not the case in particular because the objective conditions of ageing society, as I said in the case of the healthcare system, require additional rather than smaller resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I've only got mags on my list. It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If I am still discussing the resolution of my position, I should say again that the national social protection programme is an extremely important document for me. And I'd know if I said that everything that was written in it was unacceptable to me. If, earlier when I presented the opinion of the Group of Members, I have retained myself primarily to what is bothering us as a group in this programme, then let me say that by seeing that I have read this, at least the introduction of a single entry point system for different forms of social benefits is something that any smart person would support. However, it is true that I must immediately add that this resolution has two parts. One part is one that remains on the display of the goals, strategies, purposes, so to speak, beautiful words and principles that we accept. The other is the less kind or less attractive part, which is related to numbers and which requires financial coverage. And that's where the problems start. Unfortunately, these are not the only problems. If I am reading a resolution from the perspective of my political conviction and my political vision, then in this introductory part, where the macro-economic and social aspects of Slovenia's development are presented, I am most concerned about the pre-latest indent, which speaks of the "faster development of market-oriented services also in the field of social services and the removal of obstacles in the EU's internal market". How difficult it is to communicate about social services, we are being monitored in public. I am much more concerned about this record of the development of market-oriented social services. For I am a keen advocate to see that social services, if we understand them by directing public funds to help those who are not able to help themselves, then the market orientation of services, just as I understand it, is not acceptable to me. The second point I would like to point out is, in the second objective, under the objectives and strategies for achieving the objectives, the stated point "to enable and promote the plurality of operators and the entry of new operators into the social protection system while simplifying conditions and procedures". I have not heard the comments of those who are already involved as NGOs or parts of civil society in the implementation of certain social programmes and have received public funding for this under very strict conditions and with clear safeguards, how they must be trained, whose criteria they must meet in order to be able to carry out this activity. I'm thinking about the Sun, I'm thinking about Ozare, I'm thinking about Coexistence and a lot of these associations, which I'm sorry I'm not mentioning right now. However, I will have another, which is from another perspective, but also from a range of NGOs, this is the Key, which helps victims of violence and trafficking in human beings, the only reference, is problematic, and now someone who does not have any reference to it has applied as an operator, and will probably get it, at least temporarily. So that if it were not for practice, already introduced, good practice, including some such experience that is not in favour of relaxed, easier, simplified conditions and procedures, it would probably not be concerned about this provision. It is probably not necessary to stress that poverty is even less evident in Slovenia, according to European and other benchmarking indicators. But I cannot ignore in the context of poverty that the phenomenon of feminisation of poverty is also extremely obvious in Slovenia. I am talking about a group of women, single women or women who live alone after 65 years of age who have no social support without a network, no family, no relatives, and no other support that has to come with minimum costs, and it is often very difficult, difficult, modest and denial of a full life, which I am not sure would fit my view of what a decent, decent life should be like at age, after everything or at least a good one has given. That is why I do not always look at putting the burden on the family without reservations because in a number of cases it is also necessary to raise the question of the appropriate competence and quality of the services that the family can provide, or the quality of the care that the family can give, but not of the emotional support that can certainly be the greatest in the family, but also of the fact that people with special needs also have the right to independent life. And when I talk about family concerns, I can’t help but notice that this concern usually falls back on the female part of the family, and this part of the family is already carrying most of the care for the good, the pleasant, and the most comfortable life of the family. So if I miss anything in this, there is a measure that would suggest that this strategy also takes into account what we have adopted in another national programme or resolution, this is in a resolution on the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women. Of course, I cannot help but overthink that there is probably another particularly vulnerable group of children that we think too little about because some groups have not yet found sufficiently well-thought-out, comprehensive care, and I am not just thinking about children or people with autism. But recently, for example, I also received a concerned letter from parents of blind and visually impaired children who are less concerned because they are not physically disabled, at least they do not belong to a group of motion impaired people. And such cases would be enough, and I would like to see everything taken care of as evenly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Before I go over and finish the general debate, I ask the Secretary of State if she wants a word and then we have amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The key orientations of the resolution under consideration on the national social protection programme are the logical continuation of the preliminary document of the national programme by 2005. If I were to continue here, where Mrs Potrata has ended. With regard to the protection of the elderly and care at home, I would stress that there are increasing demands for a family helper. At the beginning, 400 family helpers were foreseen. To this day, we have received 1,000 requests for a family helper. This indicates that older people want to stay home and not in their homes. The main demographic characteristic of our country is that the number of older people is increasing. Therefore, the promotion of services and programmes that enable them to stay in their home environment - we have also sought to achieve the objectives and strategies of the national programme. We have significantly increased the amount of assistance at home by 100% and the provision of 500% of daily care centres, the protection and care in residential care by 400% and the care in the home for the elderly after the most developed service by more than 14%. With regard to the problem of dealing with people with mental health problems, we have taken into account the fact that the government is preparing a law on mental protection for people with mental health problems, which includes, inter alia, a specific national programme for this population. This programme will define a strategy for the development of care and an action plan for mental health, objectives, organisation and development, the tasks of a network of service providers and mental health programmes, the mandate holders for the implementation of the national programme and the basis for the evaluation of the national programme. Three ministries are included in this law because it concerns health: the Ministry of Health, Social Welfare, our Ministry of Labour and also the Ministry of Justice. In addition, a law on long-term care is being drawn up. Other laws, as well as national programmes, have been drawn up to address this issue. With regard to the financial implications of the national social protection programme, however, we would like to stress that they are set up in real terms, not only in the context of budgetary resources, since the budget expenditure does not cover private resources. On an annual scale, we planned seven billion a year, which would be around 78 billion over the entire period and the social security fund growth index would be increased to 134. Then the funds of local communities are also not covered, with an increase from 10 billion to 14 billion. The growth index for 2005 to 2010 is 136. The calculations show that health and social welfare institutions will also increase from the current 19.5 billion to good 26 billion, the growth index in this case being 135. The document under consideration is a resolution nature and for its operational implementation, we will try, through the annual budgets, to provide the maximum possible financial background for its implementation. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the expansion of the network does not only mean a one-year increase in expenditure, but the enlarged network needs to be adequately financed even after the enlargement has been achieved at the annual level. By no means are we providing services or a network of programmes or a network of services through this national programme. As I mentioned at the outset, the basis for this national programme was the previous national programme, where after a thorough analysis we have increased certain programmes and services, especially in areas where needs have been, and determined the number at least, our target is to exceed the number at least. However, we have remained on those programmes and services where they have not already been implemented in the 2005 programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I would also like to invite you to the floor of the Director within the time available.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr President. With regard to what the Secretary of State has stressed, I would like to stress one more point, since the word "reduce" has repeatedly been repeated, it is obviously the wrong translation of enlargement. In most cases, we are expanding the social protection network, which means that in most cases we are expanding the network of social protection services, both the network of public programmes and the network of experimental and development programmes. And let me just say what Mrs State Secretary has already stressed in addition, for the areas of care of people with special needs, particularly mental health problems, we are expanding the network of daily centres and the network of counselling and advocacy centres by up to 40%. These NGOs, which have already been included in the public debate, have been able to increase their share here. Of course, it was necessary to coordinate the expansion of the network, so that in the end there was a financial impact, as we presented it. Of course, it is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, whether or not we will be the minimum target, that is, the least expansion of the networks in this context, as we have foreseen, has also been exceeded, because every year you will be challenged to set the necessary resources for this development. Let me tell you that the involvement of the non-governmental sector in this development is a very important proportion and has proved to be very successful so far. Let me also respond to Mr Rope's remark. In fact, the current law on social protection is very well governed by this area of concessions and we do not see any problems so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 20 March 2006, which you also have on the table. I am putting to the debate chapter 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. On the working body, when we addressed the area of the third objective strategy in Chapter 4, there was a very broad and reasoned debate on this, as the title of this strategy says, the formulation and implementation of such a remuneration policy, which promotes the self-activities of beneficiaries. And there was a debate on how to set a starting point, which provided that some jobseekers could still receive statutory social assistance. The basic proposal concluded that this job seeker was practically obliged to accept each job, regardless of the basis on which it came from when he became a unemployed person. Well, and then this argument was so strong that the working body also adopted this amendment and so the motion for a resolution was supplemented. And I still insist, regardless of the coalition behind this amendment, but the coalition here is only the addressee, this is what the proposaler wants to put back in the basic resolution that this is a hard approach. In practice, it may also be because of poor substantive and responsible work in a particular institution that this solution is being used. But I'm going to say, there are many, many cases where this man is left with only this, given the situation he's faced with, this kind of cash assistance. And if we bind it so, without giving an opportunity by implementing legislation, it is a law or another implementing regulation, we also set out the criteria for what this means, an appropriate and appropriate employment, that without it this approach is completely harsh and simplified. Because this is also a basic document, the resolution must give the minimum minimum under which the implementing regulation for the implementation of this document should not be allowed to fall. However, the law on employment, unemployment insurance or other legislation clearly requires that the criterion be laid down, which is appropriate and appropriate employment. Here we can give regulations to go quite low so that we do not, as Mrs Uhanova said earlier, simply refuse work, even though we are receiving state aid. It's the country that needs to have a feeling in this case about a man like that, whether he likes it or not. For me, this approach is hard, simplified, which is, of course, quite written on the skin of the current Minister for this area. It is possible that in this way we want to reduce the number of unemployed people, because this will be justified or unjustifiable, but mostly justified, the recipient of this financial social assistance must take any work or remain without it. And so was the creation of the starting law, which is now in changes and additions, and the law to amend the law to employment and insurance. Now, on the pressure of the social partners, this thing has improved, as we want to put it with a limit that is nominally in the resolution, and it is right that it is nominal here. Then what will be the limited situation in practice, when it can no longer refuse work, is a matter of implementing regulation. So I will certainly support this amendment, and I think we should all support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Also Master Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. On the basis of the LDS proposal, the amendment to the sixth measure was adopted in Strategy d. the third objective, which amended the first text by adding the text 'adequate and appropriate'. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that this part is deleted from this measure for the following reasons in particular. With limited employment opportunities today, it is difficult to find a job that is completely consistent with the types and directions of education, so it is also impossible, I think it is justifiably impossible to expect that it is always possible to obtain the most suitable and appropriate employment. Personally, it seems entirely acceptable to me and personally to me that the receipt of financial social assistance, which is materially threatened but capable of work, would be responsible for accepting a job, of course, if it were appropriate for his psychophysical abilities. We all know stories from America when diplomats throw road sweeps. I don't know a story like that around here. After all, in the context of legislative amendments, these solutions have already been harmonised in the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Master Rob checked in earlier - unless. What about the repair? Okay. Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Of course, I wanted to say that I will be supplemented; I supported this motion for a resolution, but I will certainly not support this amendment, because it is completely destructive in view of my knowledge of matter and eliminates the last possibility that anyone has to survive somehow on this social segment of man. And there will be no mistake, you know where to get the money, because Mrs. Uhanov told us earlier where we're going to take social support for this. This same minister had no doubts when he went to the draft law, which also gave the highest pension recipients from the state budget an annual allowance and part of the widow's pension to those top pensioners. Just so we know where the order of size is on the question of public money from the state budget in which we all pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Master Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. So I must say that I am surprised by this amendment tabled by the coalition, in particular by the fact that all the coalition groups have tabled this. On the committee itself, we have discussed this issue and we have proposed an appropriate amendment, which was adopted, and I said earlier in the introduction that, in some subjects, Members of the coalition have undoubtedly made great efforts to correct, correct and improve the other very restrictive and non-social attitudes of this national programme. I myself considered that this was one of those moves and steps that was good that was appropriate, and I was very pleased that this happened on the parental committee. So that's exactly where this debate was going to go, whether, and in this way, we are going to reduce the share of these expenditure in the social product and in fact change the nature and type of social state, even in this area for those unemployed who are in the most difficult situation, those who have already left the employment institution, because they are long-term unemployed, who are in a difficult personal and social situation, we will now force them past, in principle, the human dignity to receive every job, regardless of their education. In fact, this original text provides that they are obliged to take appropriate and appropriate work, both of them, i.e. work that is suitable for lower education than they themselves have. However, there is a limit, and today we have been given an example of America, where so-called "poverty trap" is known, where people work, and in many cases they are poor and live in certain ghettos and live in impossible circumstances. In short, on behalf of human dignity, on behalf of future solutions and amendments to the law on unemployment insurance, which are obviously being prepared, I call on you to reject this amendment, for God's sake, and not to allow further steps back in the field of the social state. So I suggest we not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate chapter 5 and the amendment of the new SDS, NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Mr Vice-President, I also wanted to discuss the second amendment to Chapter 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Yes, please, it's possible. They were both in the debate. So, second time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	I'm sorry. I'm focused on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	No problem. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	The amendment of the same candidate in the title of coalition parties, with which we want to eliminate what has happened on the home working body to an extremely complementary, reasoned performance by the president of the social services community. The fourth chapter sets out the next objective of "strengthening professional autonomy, governance autonomy and rational business in the field of social protection". This is followed by strategy A, which speaks of "strengthening the professional autonomy of operators in the field of social protection." And then we have three measures. However, there is a lack of that measure, which is the most visible measure at both headings pursued by this objective, and this new fourth measure speaks like this: "Determining the broader competence of social protection operators in deciding on business and professional issues of the implementation of activities in accordance with the adopted guidelines at the level of the operator's roof and long-term orientations." What does that mean? This means that we give one director at home for the elderly an opportunity to unleash ambition in his programme of activities to introduce additional programmes, given that he has a wide range of professional staff, additional approaches to business thinking. What does this accomplish, and what is the purpose of this objective? By doing so, which may be a little more ambitious, we can relieve the cost of daily care at home and thus relieve the daily obligation or monthly obligation of a caregiver. This is the President of the Centre for Social Work, Mr Ponikvar, who explained in such a quality manner that I simply cannot understand that the Secretariat can be brought to this level. I have already said in my opening speech on the question of the position of the Group that the resolution is good. It is organised in an organic manner, but in a substantive sense, the applicant should, if nothing else, carry out a somewhat in-depth discussion with at least the key institutions operating, which would say, implement this resolution. Who, then, if this is not the community of social work centres or the community of social institutions of Slovenia, whose director was present at the meeting? That is why I do not understand this measure literally and seriously ask ourselves the truthfulness of putting in place a document which is somehow fundamental to the principle of the nature in which you create all the implementation policy in the field of social protection and social sustainability of people in the country. By no means do I intend to support this amendment. However, I would be pleased to note that we are all aware of this, for the sake of the document we are now adopting for the period until 2010. This does not burden us with the financial obligation of the budget to do so, but to do so, to relieve us of the burden. And you, in terms of some business excellence, which we also have to defend in the public sector, let go of the self-creation approach of a director. I know this area quite well, and I know that this measure is so necessary that I can't imagine that it hasn't already arrived at the baseline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, can you turn off the microphone, please? Thank you very much. Now I am really putting to the debate the fifth chapter and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it here? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much. It's just the same story, because I'm not going to try very hard here because that's the situation. This amendment has also come in and has complemented the resolution in a qualitative way in the part where I say it is undernourished. This is in the field of caring for persons with mental and physical disabilities. There have also been many arguments that have been presented differently than I have been able to present to you. But given the sense of keeping what is now in the resolution, but we want to delete this procedure with this amendment, we have already done before, by giving the opportunity to enter the existing system of advisory offices and advocacy, which has been a great catch in practice - earlier in the first objective, we should look. Here, in the area of objectives and strategy, we are now moving on to this, I would say, an implementation issue, when we set criteria and criteria. And it makes perfect sense if we're just looking at the title - what chapter 5 says: criteria for network development and public service. Chapter: Public social security services, quantitative criteria. And in these criteria, in point three, which is addressed to Advice and Organised Social Assistance, we are launching a new subsection that speaks, with two: preparation, coordination and implementation of an individual plan and advice to people with mental health problems. And here in here we wanted to legally release what we said before, I told you, we have accepted that we will now include these existing advisory offices in the public network that these criteria speak of. And it is true that, of course, there is a norm behind here, but I do not know why, if they are already doing this, and if by resolution we are also opening up space for new challenges to enter the network, why do we not allow these organisations operating in a structured way with programmes to have high quality results in this implementation chapter, if I say, to the normative chapter, to prevent them from being allowed into a resolution. The speech is here to create a monopoly position. I don't see it. The talk is also that this norm is too large. And I will say again, the area of community care for the mental health segment is nourished in the interdisciplinary procedure of the government to the situation and in this resolution. And there's no question where we get the money. This money in the budget must be provided by this country in the original revenue of the budget. And that is why I am very sorry that what we have managed with the arguments there to put in the resolution and we have only improved it qualitatively, we want now because of the popotence, so I will say domestically, someone out here to throw someone out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will be deciding on the amendments according to the schedule today in the context of the vote, in about half an hour, at quarter to four, so that there will be no mistake, at 3 p.m. and 15 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue the meeting at 3 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please all present to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, the orange light must burn on the right side of the card. In view of the fact that there is no comment on the operation of the devices, we continue our consideration of the proposal for a company law with an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. The three amendments have been tabled under Article 703 and we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats to Article 703 already mentioned. A colleague of Kumer, on behalf of the parliamentary group, applied for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I will give my position to all three amendments so I will not be on behalf of the Group of Members three times. We will not oppose the law we are adopting today in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. I am taking advantage of this opportunity, and in some ways the last chance to knock on the conscience of Members, the majority of them in this National Assembly, to support these three amendments that we have tabled. Nothing catastrophic and negative in this respect will happen to the owners of the company either because it is only a complement to the article which is in the so-called package of transitional provisions and, of course, this matter will be definitively regulated by the law on the participation of workers in management, which is announced to enter the procedure in this State Assembly in May. The non-acceptance of these three amendments may result in the legal inequality of all employees in Slovenia; those who, after the adoption of this amendment or this law on the GHS, will have an organised management system under the so-called two-tier system and will be subject to the law on the participation of workers in management, and those who will have a so-called unit management system under the Act on Economic Companies and this 703rd Article. We in the Social Democratic Group are trying, at least for this transitional time, to eliminate this inequality and we are proposing this amendment with these three amendments. So, once again, it's not a matter of any, no great harm to be done, we'll all be equal before the law. And one more thing. In these last days, I went to look at a magnetogram, a word used or a relationship or a syntagma of "equality before the law" in dealing with the law on media and the law on veterans 73 times. I believe it is still, I have missed some, but I have found that 73 times we Members and Members of this National Assembly have used this argument almost in a 10-hour debate that we citizens are equal before the law. And once again here, in this case, it's equal work before marriage. So once again, I suggest you support these three amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. So we will vote on the first amendment of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the same parliamentary group, i.e. the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 703. A colleague Kumer applied to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	And here's my last appeal. This is really not so cruel, but this is really going - with this solution we eliminate about 200 entities that now have in the two-tier system of management of the supervisory council. With this amendment of the law, we will no longer allow them to have their own representative, if they are owners, and so will they decide in most cases, their own representative on the board of directors. So I suggest that we not go to the solution that this fifth indent applies for up to 50, but for micro-enterprises or micro-entities up to 10. At least, and this is where we ensure this equality, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 36. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. With regard to the question of the harmonisation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the government. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Chairman. As a result of the amendments adopted in the second reading at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy or of the amendments adopted, I stress that in the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly there have been some inconsistencies in the legislative provisions which need to be harmonised with the harmonisation amendments. You received the amendments, were distributed already in the morning, and are also in line with the legislative and legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	A small correction by a government representative, the amendments will now be distributed to Members and Members of Parliament on the bench. I therefore ask whether anyone opposes the proposal that we complete the final vote on the law today, according to the next item, when the amendments are divided. Do you insist that this vote be held on Tuesday? Tuesday? I see it's expressed will. Therefore, due to the non-coherence and division of the amendments, the State Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Tuesday, 4 April 2006, after the final vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. Since no amendments have been tabled to the resolution, we are moving on to a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. In doing so, I inform you that neither the Government nor the legal and legislative services have informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the resolution would not be harmonised. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 7. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted and therefore we conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item on the agenda - the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2006-2010. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution. We have two amendments under Chapter 4. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to that fourth chapter. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 33. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the same candidates, i.e. the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups, to the same fourth chapter. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	The adoption of this amendment is a complete discourse on the purpose of the fourth objective to which we are interfering with this amendment. That is why I will strongly oppose and it is good that we all reject this amendment and improve the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 28. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to chapter five. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 32. [[It's 37 for the vote.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2006-2010 as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. Delivery of the Post, explanation of voice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Majda Potrat, and there's something else, thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, I express my opposition to the national social protection programme 2006-2010. The three amendments voted, which, however, followed the recommendations made by social service providers or social services providers on the parent body and have been at least minimal to those with experience, especially in dealing with persons with special needs, with those with mental health problems, would have been good for them to accept this, but given that the coalition, by its majority, has also been able to draw on the pretext that there is a legal unclear terminology, including the fact that the competence of operators to decide on business and professional issues should be exercised in accordance with the guidelines adopted on the ground and the long-term orientations adopted, does not really appear to be a common integral part of this national programme and strategy. It is clear to me and to our group that it is also a matter of changing the treatment of this sensitive area, of entering new operators who are in the interest of different things than they are agreed to, that they are not united in certain standards and designations. And these are all the reasons why we won't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. Voice explanation, mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress once again before you decide on this resolution that it is an extremely important document, that it is a document that sets out the way, extent and development in the area of social protection, that it is a document that will define how we will carry out social protection in Slovenia, not least, a document that points to the direction in which the Slovenian social state is going. The amendments adopted today, in fact, exacerbate this view of the social state, this new view, this new face of the Slovenian state and the Slovenian government. I would like to say that in the LDS Club, we believe that this national programme, which will be adopted today, does not solve the problem of accelerating the need for social protection services resulting from the problems of population ageing, nor does it follow the real opportunities that exist in Slovenia in view of the growth of gross domestic product, that they do not offer sufficient and possible development and that it does not increase solidarity and social justice. This proposal represents a relative reduction in the level of social security funds in Slovenia. The increase in the volume of these resources will take place by halving the growth rate of gross domestic product growth and, of course, by reducing the relative share of such services, such funds in GDP in Slovenia, and by reducing the size of the social state. It means that this coalition, this government is starting to save. For the first time, in the most vulnerable groups of the Slovenian population, in groups of children, adolescents, elderly people and persons with mental and physical disabilities, savings started in Slovenia, reforms started in another direction, in another country. The social protection system is a particularly important social protection system and, of course, I appeal to all of you to consider when pressing the key. In the LDS, we believe that this proposed resolution does not provide sufficient and possible development of the social protection system in Slovenia, it represents a major step backwards and we cannot and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The programme was developed in cooperation with various experts in theory and practice and, more importantly, was complemented by both operators and performers' associations. In New Slovenia we are aware that this programme is set up very ambitiously. The State Council also agreed. I've talked about some numbers before in my discussion. A number often appears that this programme foresees a 200% more realisation than, say, the current programme by 2005. It must also be said that the objectives set out in this resolution are the minimum, minimum and for which the Government undertakes to fulfil it. And although these goals have been set as a minimum, I think it is still more than it has been achieved so far. We are confident that more of this can also be done, as long as such needs are met and financial resources are provided. This, after all, depends on us Members as well. That is why we will support the programme in our Group of Members, because we are sure it is of quality. Above all, we are also convinced that it is feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you, colleague Capuder. And on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. In the opening presentation of the Slovenian National Party's Group, I simply said and presented some of the key doubts that arise to us in this document, although I have expressed, last but not least, my appreciation or surprise, if you wish, that the two important amendments of the Slovenian National Party have been adopted and included in this national programme. But it bothered me, so I'm going to have to explain the speaker in front of me. I didn't even want to give an explanation of how we would vote in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. You know, I'm interested in who those experts are and how many there are, from the theory and practice that participated in the creation of this document. I will refer here to the comments received by the Members of the Social Chamber, which, at least after my assessment, should be one of the key institutes which should be involved in the preparation of such an important document as the National Social Protection Programme 2006-2010. These comments came, if you want, a post-festum, which, at least for me, is a good enough signal to strongly doubt that the national programme or resolution on the national programme is so highly trained or ready. I also expressed a few concerns, not just me, but also comments that came not least from the State Council, that the document was weak, professionally lacking. I will say that I fear that the whole resolution is too ambitious or too set up, because the facts speak differently. Otherwise, the budgets that have been adopted speak. Finally, there are also some concrete analyses and you don't want demographic indicators to be different. Thus, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the resolution, nor will we vote against it, so we will press the "quorum" button and I hope that the story, once again here, will not be repeated when we decide in Parliament on the national programme in the field of children and families.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. One explanation for the voice. My friend Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	If you insist, I didn't want to explain, but I will vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-31-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 26. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 2 of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on labour and social security records. On Wednesday 29 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the amended proposal, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not have been harmonised because of the working body of the amendments adopted, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also hereby adjourn the 15th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 4 April at 9 a.m. Nice extended weekend.
