ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I convened the meeting on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Doctor Pavel Gantar, Ivan Grill, Ferri Horvat, Miran Jerič, Dimitrij Kovacič, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Breda Pečan, Milan Petek, Mihael Prevc, Franz Pukšič, Doctor Mitja Slavinec, Master Tomaž Štebe, Marjetka Uhan and Janko Weber. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 24 January 2006. I have not received any proposals concerning the extension of the agenda. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. I note that there are no comments on the functioning of the voting apparatus. That is why we are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[There were six votes against.]] I take it that the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIC EXAMPLE OF THE FOURTH PARAGRAPH 62. Member of the Insurance Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Master Branko Grims. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. Allow me to begin by saying just a few words about the task ahead of us. Today, we have before us the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law, which is an instrument that allows the legislator to clearly state what he meant when he adopted the law to comply with the substantive legal provisions already in existence and thus indirectly directs the implementation of the law. In this way, the legislator has the opportunity to ensure that the law is actually interpreted and is therefore also implemented in the way he meant when he adopted the law. This legal instrument, which has been used several times in the history of Slovenia alone, even during the new constitution, is therefore nothing special and today's meeting is no precedent. I stress this because of the discussions that have taken place on the Committee since we have already discussed this issue. The subject of today's authentic interpretation is in fact the definition, in particular the definition of one legal concept, which is very clearly defined for everyone who has met with the law. It's a question of what permission means in some procedure. If we go now to look at some of the thick textbooks, the lexicons that are in the library in this building, which we all often use, you will see that it talks about the legal concept of license always as something that is going somewhere in the process that then that process can continue, that then some legal action can be done. There's never a permit to go back. Even more, in one of the textbooks, past the beam, it is already 35 years old, I have found the only definition which referred to the possibility that any permission may be obtained subsequently, but it warns that this means that at some point there is an unrespectable law, and that, if the law exceptionally permits it, it can be done, but then it is no longer going to be interpreted as a legal term of permission, but that it goes here essentially to confirm the decision already taken. Speaking of authorisation, this concept of law has long been clearly defined. From this point of view, I would like to point out that today, when we decide on an authentic explanation, we agreed on the Committee's amendment or transformation proposed by the Legal Service, and that we will therefore decide on the text drafted by the right legal service, is shorter, clearer and I believe that it will also be clear enough and effective to fully fulfil the purpose which we have reached a high level of consensus in the past days. So this text does not interfere with the law in any way, but we simply make it clear what it says in this law. Indeed, all the content of this authentic explanation is clearly stated in the law long ago if we read the law as it does. I don't know why it came to the view that a permit can also be given once later when the request comes. In fact, the law provides for the authorisation to be issued on request. This also stems from the very text of the law, but it is clear that this requirement must be given and thus also the authorisation issued before the final decision procedure is initiated. This is covered by the text on which we will decide today and it reads: "The authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be regarded as a mandatory condition for the initiation and implementation of the process of transformation of the company for mutual insurance into a share company." In this way, the National Assembly will make it very clear that at the time of the adoption of the Insurance Act, it wanted to establish actual protective mechanisms, that it did not want to set up insurance control agencies as some kind of paper tiger, but rather as what its name actually defines as a control agency, which will have the effective means already laid down in this Act if we read it properly. However, so that there is no minimum legal doubt, we have proposed that this be explicitly accepted and recorded in the form of an authentic interpretation. I would like to conclude by stressing something that is rare and therefore so much more valuable in this national assembly. This, however, is an extremely high level of consensus, since the first candidate is a type of opposition, this is Dr. Pavliha, and then all the leaders of all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly have been signed, except, of course, that which, and in general, everything that has been going on in the past days in the National Assembly continues to be completely opposed. However, this consensus I am talking about includes parliamentary groups that count together more than 80 Members of the National Assembly, so I think it is a moment when we demonstrate, with this high level of consensus, that we can step together when it comes to public interest, when we are convinced that we are also defending justice as a value. I therefore propose that, of course, today we also accept this authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr Grimes. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 15th urgent meeting on 25.1.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, submitted to the National Assembly by all parties other than the Slovenian National Party, with the first signed mag. Branko Grims, Dr. Mark Pavli, Jozet Tank, mag. Anton the Robber, Marian the Run, Aloysez Sokom, Jacob the Intercessors and Mag. France Gnyardsich. It follows from the proposal that an authentic interpretation is necessary because there is doubt as to whether the Agency's authority for insurance supervision pursuant to paragraph 4 above is a mandatory preliminary act in a procedure which is a condition for the decision of the competent authority of the mutual insurance company or of the assembly or whether it is an agreement issued after the decision on the conversion has already been taken. There is a high level of consensus among legal experts, according to the applicant, that permission may be granted in advance, while the decision can, as a rule, only be given consent. For those reasons, the applicants propose to the National Assembly to adopt an authentic interpretation which is intended to contribute to the correct application of the decision in question. The legislature has also reviewed this bill and examined it in terms of both compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative position. I note that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the DeSUS and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia formally rests on all the foundations which must be contained under the second paragraph of Article 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is clear from the interpretation given that the authentic interpretation of the law is an instrument which allows the legislator to legally determine the content of the legal provision within its original meaning, so that it is in practice clear what this requires. Such an interpretation of the law has legal effects on the contrary, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly considers that taking into account certain different interpretations of the fourth paragraph of Article 162 of the Insurance Act makes sense to adopt an authentic interpretation. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also attended the meeting, which also gave a written opinion on 25.1. The authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is therefore a requirement for a decision to reshape the company. It is important that the transformation process itself begins with a decision of the Assembly and therefore the provision of Article 62, paragraph 4, of the Insurance Act would not make any sense if the Agency’s authorisation in the recast procedure were not a prior authorisation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also considers that this interpretation is the very expression of the authorisation used in the provision. Permission shall be granted in advance and consent shall be given to the decisions taken. A legal opinion of the Institute for Comparative Law was also obtained in Ljubljana, which was forwarded by the representative of the Slovenian National Party. The meeting held a debate on the eligibility of the adoption of this law and was attended by all members of the Committee to open this proposal. Of course, there was also a proposal for a legislative and legal service that defined more precisely the amendment tabled by the Legal and Legislative Service and defined more precisely the procedures and the way in which the amendment was adopted at the Committee's meeting. It follows clearly from the existing text that the authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is a mandatory procedural condition for the implementation of the transformation procedure of the company for mutual insurance into a share company. It follows that, in the event that the Insurance Supervisory Agency does not issue an authorisation and the Assembly nevertheless decides, the decisions on the conversion to a share company are legally null and void. Thus, the Committee adopted an amendment and a decision: the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act and a proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation as proposed by the amendment adopted by the Committee. This is how we propose to the National Assembly that this proposal be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Starman. He wants a government representative to talk? [[No, no, ……]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before we begin by presenting our views and then, of course, by discussing, let me mention that representatives of the groups of Members have 10 minutes to present, every 10 minutes. Then we will gather all the speakers, all the Members and Members concerned, make an immediate list of the panellists, and each of the panellists will have 5 minutes available for discussion in accordance with Rule 67(3) of the Rules of Procedure. So, first of all, representatives of the parliamentary groups have the floor. Who wants to discuss it? Pavliha, Run, Rezman, Mikolitch, Bajc, Pec. Did I let anyone go? Once again, Pavliha, Run, Rezman, Mikolitch, Bajc, Pece, yes and Jazbec. Here you are, Mr Pavliha, on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representative and representatives of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will of course support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the disputed article of the Insurance Act. Last but not least, Master Robb and I are cosigners of this proposal. And we'll support him with some bitter taste, with a painful face. In fact, we are saving something that should not have happened if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had done its duty. Lately, at Friday's session, we are listening to the eyewitnesses at yesterday's session and, of course, we are also listening to the excuses of who is and who is not responsible for the problem that is on our table, who is responsible for supplementary health insurance. We were looking for the Minister of Finance for nothing on Fridays and at yesterday's meeting, looking for the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency for nothing. What does our legislation say about this? According to both laws, supplementary public interest insurance is a public interest because they relate to so many people, in particular more than one million insurers. Who cares about the public interest in our country? The public interest is cared for by someone other than the government. The government has competent authorities, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance and an independent insurance agency. Today, the Minister of Finance said that he does not actually have any or no impact on the insurance agency. Is that true? It's not. The Director of the Agency is appointed on a proposal from the Minister of Finance by the Government, and he is also appointed the expert board of this Agency on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, the Agency for Insurance Control, dear colleagues and colleagues, and is responsible - what do you think of anyone - other than this National Assembly. And we have seen Mr Goriška on the committee for the first time today, and apparently for the last time, too. Interesting and also in the sky is the letter you have probably received these days since the coordination of the representative unions of the public sector of Slovenia. It's 14 unions. They write like this. They call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance and the Director of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Insurance Control to do everything they can to prevent the announced privatisation of the Mutual Health Insurance Office, d.v.z. and they also say: "We want you to protect the public interest with your powers and measures, that is 1.1 million, or 900 thousand insured and insured persons, who we have entrusted to each other with the implementation of supplementary health insurance. These are the payments of compulsory health insurance services..." And, of course, the letter continues. So for more than a million people and on their behalf they ask us to protect their rights, because, if I am well informed, they have only two representatives in the 33 - member congregation. However, as we have seen on several occasions in these days, the entire assembly represents 0.003% of all insured persons. We are not against reshaping, if, of course, it is the will of all the insured, but the water does not burn. Let this transformation take place, for the first time, with the true will of the insured and, secondly, on the basis of precisely defined rules, which are not now laid down. It all started a few months ago, remember the intention of the Mutual and also the execution of the transformation of life insurance into a 12-year-old, so it was also criminally denounced by Mr Kos and then accused. However, in an attempt to terminate the contract with the Ministry of Labour, for which 71 000 insured persons, war invalids, victims - this interruption was later cancelled - and the issue of certificates which, according to the legal profession, were rarely referred to as unlawful and to have rights that we cannot afford in such a way, and blackmail with higher premiums, not least the announcement of the assembly which was to take place after the first announcements in the middle of January, but now, as we know, February 1st. In mid-December, we were in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia precisely because there was no move on the part of the executive branch to ask the Prime Minister an oral question. The Prime Minister has said publicly that he shares our concerns. It is interesting that our initiative on the public debate has not been voted on, but it is even more interesting that among the few who supported our initiative we can find as many as 5 Members and Members of Parliament, since the 6th, from the Slovenian National Party. It is very interesting how they radically changed their position on the urgency of treatment. At that time, the Insurance Supervisory Agency started the infringement resolution procedure, and also began the process of withdrawing the licence to the Director of the Mutual Director, but that is not enough. These procedures, as we know, may take months and months, especially if the affected parties complain. At the beginning of January, we see an interesting conversion. The mutual even begins to act cooperatively. He writes to the first director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency how to amend the statutes, to be amended in accordance with the legal requirement and how to properly reshape the assembly, and thus implicitly admits that this assembly of 33 members cannot reflect the will and belief of a good million insurers. And what does the agency that suits us, the National Assembly, and it is not here today, and which has all the powers to solve this kind of insurance issue? The Agency says it is not the responsibility of the Agency to refer to the Minister of Health. The next day, he does so in writing and receives a letter from the Minister of Health explaining to her that he is not competent to do so and that he should either use his legal advisers or seek external legal advice. Is this a responsible relationship for the protection of public interest, or is it a responsible interest to protect more than a million insurers? I don't think so. A few days later, we discussed a proposal for legal amendments that are a commendable attempt to do something, but to make a transformation if it comes to it, on the basis of a specific law. This was also our proposal in the parliamentary question in mid-December. Then we know that there has been an initiative for a preliminary legislative referendum and, of course, our decision to be judged by the Constitutional Court. You could even say literally that the dogs are barking and the caravan is moving on and is approaching the assembly on February 1st. Therefore, dear colleagues, there is no choice but to do for ourselves what the executive has not done. Well, you could. Authenticity can be required by any lawmaker, i.e. the government. Article 62, while for the vast majority of lawyers, is quite clear and completely indisputable. It's a permit. And an authorisation is an essential precondition for a decision to transform the Mutual into a share company. So says Professor Ivanko, for example, as Dr Cerar says, there are several other lawyers. What we have been able to read today by a respected expert, Professor Uden, with his colleagues, of course, points to some possible interpretation of Article 62. In view of the need to read it in the light of the first adoption of the congregation’s decision, it would then be permits, but all of this would be true if it were consent or approval. Then I would have signed this opinion. But the legislator has decided that this is a permit and because it is a permit, it is necessary to clarify today with our authentic explanation that the permit is a precondition, for the first time, for the initiation of the transformation procedure and, of course, for the continuation and completion of the procedure. By doing so, people’s will will will not be disabled, and it will be more protected, perhaps at the expense of a six - year delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although we have repeatedly expressed the views of the groups of Members in recent days, we have tried to explain the problems, we have tried to study this issue more thoroughly than some others, it is likely that, in today's decision, it is right to say a few simple thoughts. First. I would like the views of the Socialist Group of Members to be understood for the benefit of the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. And to try to understand that the first fundamental question that we are discussing is whether it is prudent and right to prepare legislation that sets out the conditions and criteria for possible transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company into a Shareholder Society, or whether it is right that this transformation takes place without these criteria. And second. Is it right to do this design with the envisaged date of 1 February of this year, or is it better to do it a little later, a little more prudently and with greater certainty that the decision will be in the interest of the insurers. That's a clear dilemma. Whoever hasn't seen it before is, I'd say, unwarranted or blind in our decision-making. And in this clear dilemma, we decide that it is right to take a month, two, three and a half years of time to prepare all the necessary conditions and criteria for possible transformation from a mutual insurance company to a share company, in order to ensure an adequate composition that will ensure the protection of the interests of the insurers, and that six months, I am speaking on a working basis, cannot be at the expense of the quality of such a decision. Anyone who does not understand this and forces forward that it is necessary to do this on his nose without these criteria, is justified in doubting that he is forcing this so that appropriate and necessary criteria are not prepared to ensure the interests of the insurers. Second. In the absence of existing activities, the National Assembly, first of all the Insurance Supervisory Agency and later the governments, was placed in a position to look for ways and opportunities to ensure the time needed to make smart and thoughtful decisions. I hope to say that we are doing everything we are doing in this National Assembly within the framework of the opportunities afforded by the Constitution, the law and our rules of procedure. Today's debate and decision-making concern the adoption of a mandatory interpretation in this respect. I strongly agree with the expert opinion prepared and signed by Dr. Ude, but this opinion, for me before, is proof that it is necessary to arrive at a mandatory interpretation, as vice versa. Why? Because it speaks of the interpretation of Article 62 being different. That, on the one hand, there are colleagues, respected professors and lawyers who claim that there is only one way to explain it, that is to say that it is a "after" permit, I am putting in quotations. And others who believe that the authorisation is something given in terms of content and language before the decision-making process on property change begins. Anything, in the case of a different explanation, is justified. And then, if this is a different explanation, it is not possible to say that the content itself is changing by means of a mandatory explanation, because it is unclear, and just wants to say what the legislator's opinion is and what's going on for six months is the difference, and I hope that the decision is not wrong. And the third thing I'd like to say incontrovertibly. At this point, the decision on the compulsory interpretation is not directed against people's decision at the referendum. We discussed the referendum yesterday. Whether our request for a constitutional review of the matter and the consequences is justified or not will be decided by the Constitutional Court. I, unlike many colleagues from you, know what it's like to make a motion to court, regularly or constitutionally. You always have to say you're right because there's no reason to give. Many of you comment that if someone makes a case before a court, regularly or constitutionally, something claims to be insulting or slandering someone, that is nonsense. And we argued yesterday that it was intended to prevent the possibility of adopting a timely law because it wanted to be prevented by a referendum to ensure that everything was done on 1 February. Whether we're right or wrong will eventually be decided by the court. And every proposal in court is always likely to win it, as well as the possibility that the court will give it to someone else. But there is undoubtedly one fact that if we did not do the necessary actions that we are obliged to do today, we would not be able to protect the public interest, we could not be prepared to draw up such legislation that would determine the conditions and criteria for possible transformation from a mutual society to a share society. Therefore, I do not think it is possible to say that, even with the mandatory interpretation of the law, we wish to prevent the referendum will from being realized. I am convinced that, at this point, the desire to collect signatures is not intended for the content of law-making, but is aimed at really preventing this law from being adopted in a timely manner and that it would also affect the substantive decisions already taken at the Mutual Assembly, which is scheduled for 1 February. I regret that at this point in the National Assembly, I am even more sorry that there was no greater understanding of the management and perhaps even of the Mutual Assembly. If we were willing to look for substantive solutions and also allow ourselves to discuss substantive solutions rather than the date on which the final decision will be taken or not, I could truly believe in the interests of the mutual authorities for the purposes of protecting each other's interests. I can't be sure of that for once today. Therefore, Members and Members will be supported by a proposal for conclusions and a mandatory explanation, as it is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say that in our DeSUS Group, we are not inclined to try to, above all or possibly, just find the culprits for the awkward situation that has arisen. We are more concerned with contributing ourselves to finding solutions and judging that there is still time for communication and for better solutions than those now on the table. The proposal for an authentic interpretation of the first sentence of paragraph 4 of Article 62 gives this opportunity, gives us the opportunity to take time to think and find possible better solutions. In particular, we would like to say that we feel that this authentic explanation is necessary. Not because the marriage would have been so badly written, but because of the fact that some professional judgements have appeared in our judgment that doubt it. And although these expert evaluations do not receive our support, doubt has been seized and needs to be addressed. Authenticity is only an explanation, so the text, as proposed, is also intended to support it. We believe that this is an excuse, especially if we understand it in the context. And the context speaks roughly as follows. There is no doubt that it is possible, the law allows this, the transformation of the Mutual into a share society. At that time, the legislator assumed that complications could occur, that irregularities, problems, perhaps even abuses could occur, so he set very difficult conditions for this change to take place. In turn, he recorded it the following way. First, we should invite all those who are members. Most of those who have decided to respond are the ones who make the decision. The second thing that I think was correct and difficult to write down is that everyone must be informed of the exact content of the proposed decision. Only after they have been informed do they actually have the opportunity to raise an objection, which is also stated in the law, which is one of the possibilities or conditions for continuation of the procedure. It is therefore necessary to request permission from the Agency, and then it is necessary to take this authorisation into account even if it is not favoured by the original purposes. Thus, the conclusion of the congregation is something that follows all that we have talked about so far. Since the legislator wanted to prevent and prevent ahead, any negative consequences or damage to the interests of those who are insured had also been foreseen. We therefore consider that there should be no doubt that the authorisation must be obtained in advance and that after this authorisation has been obtained, the Assembly has the opportunity to decide on the decision that has been proposed. Therefore, I will support an authentic explanation in the Group of Members, which we support in the hope that we will do so in the interests of all the insurers, their interests, and also in the interest of further talks and agreements being possible, so that even if they come to the market, the Mutual will not get there only after the market space has been distributed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group - The Christian People's Party agrees with the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act. Although the very expression of the permit is sufficiently precise and in our opinion and in the opinion of many legal experts, the term pre-licensed prior to the initiation of the process of transformation of the legal entity, it is also necessary to interpret the contrary opinions. We also consider that the proposed content of the authentic interpretation has not violated or increased the scope of the provisions of the insurance law. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the opinion of the Committee on Finance, the Government and also the Legal and Legislative Service that the Mutual Insurance Office must obtain the approval of the Insurance Supervisory Agency prior to the start of any activity on the transformation of the company. This authorisation is necessary primarily because we believe that the interests of the members of the company are not sufficiently protected in that case and that a large majority of the members do not know who votes and decides on their behalf at the Society Assembly. We also agree that, on the basis of the proposed law, which is before the third hearing, a thorough reshape of the company Mutual and, in accordance with the will of the membership, will be carried out in such a form of organisation that the Mutual provides an opportunity to operate equally on the insurance market. Once again, I should like to say that the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a mandatory interpretation in the form presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives and a representative of the government welcome. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the authentic interpretation of Article 62 of the Insurance Act for all the reasons that we have and which you have presented in these days, both in the working body and in the plenary sessions so far, has been necessary, and it is correct that we have come from at least here and on this occasion from all the groups of Members, except the Slovenian National Party. In our view, it is undeniable that permission for any act allowing something to be done or abandoned is necessary to obtain it before you do or leave it, and that the act that we give consent to it is usually obtained when you do something or leave it, and thus the consentor agrees. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, we estimate that the negative legal opinion of the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana is based on a substantial broader mandatory interpretation of Article 62 of the Insurance Act and, in the event that an opinion or such a mandatory interpretation of this Article, would be adopted today, they would probably interfere with the content of the law itself and not only with the explanation of what the legislator was adopting, considered or intended to regulate by this law, might be unconstitutional. However, since, on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service of this national assembly, as well as of the applicants themselves, Mr Grims and Mr Pavli, the mother body has prepared the text of the compulsory interpretation of this 62nd Article by simply explaining what the permit is and how it should be obtained, we consider that it does not go into the content of this law, but merely interpreting this permit and therefore we believe that such a compulsory interpretation is not unconstitutional. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect to be both Members and Members' Group, and the government, as well as the Insurance Supervisory Agency, especially the one with its leading authorities, at least as much an interest in the consideration and adoption of the law on the conversion of the Mutual to a share society as they have been these days or this last month. As it is said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the mandatory interpretation of Article 62 of the Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! What is the benefit of citizens and citizens? What is the public interest? Both were exposed and we heard two responses from the two representatives of the groups. They both said the same thing. Public interest is support, public interest is nationalisation. I believe and believe in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that this was an interest many years ago in the period of the former Yugoslavia. Later, the world became more important to us, and, of course, Slovenia changed so much that it did not approach nationalisation anymore, that it did not approach maintenance, but it was by its decisions to be in the form of laws, whether it should work in the interests of citizens and citizens through decisions within the executive branch, not just government as an institution and not just Parliament as an institution. The task of all of us would be to look for or know the interests of citizens and citizens. And in the National Party we are convinced that in the case of the last 10 days full of corridors of this house, it is the interest of members, that the interest of insurers and insurers, and not least that it is the interest of millions of Slovenes and Slovenes to get paid back, which they paid too much during the period 1998-99. In the whole story, we have not heard the Minister's reply once before, where the capital comes from. If this Parliament really worked in the interest of citizens and citizens, that million members of insurance and insurance companies, it would continue to receive this reply. A State assembly would have requested an answer from the Minister who established the Mutual and who is entitled to the Mutual Participation today instead of dealing with whether or not to obtain the opinion of the Agency. In the National Party, given that we have not received this response during past discussions, we have simply looked at the documentation that was confirmed at the Ministry of Finance and is called the Annual Reports. It is clear from them that the founders or I apologize for being entitled to today's allocation of funds or to the division that will take place in six months of insurance and insurance policy that those one million Slovenian citizens and citizens will be entitled to shares. And this is an interest and this is the purpose of the Slovenian National Party. However, I am sorry that the rest of you see the benefit of citizens and citizens in the state. We regret to see or consider nationalisation to be for the benefit of citizens and citizens. And that's where we're different. You will not convince us that it is in the interests of every citizen of our country that his assets are taken and transferred to the government or any other para-national institution. According to our assessment is property, and it is also, a constitutional category, and so should stay, and private property as well. We all know that the Congregation of Mutuals was convened last year. We all know and yet some hope to say why the congregation is not adjourned. Yes, because the government is late, I'm sorry! Do not blame each other if we all know that a congregation was convened last year. But if not the ministry, not the government, not this House at its final stage, gentlemen and lady, it has not moved. He waited for last week for the government or for the National Party to pass the law first, only then for the government. Where's the culprit? We all know about the problem since 2000. Since that year when no one in this room has objected to the insurance law. None of the Members and Members objected to the transformation of the Mutual into a share society. Today, you are all opposed to such a transformation, which requires more than 700,000 written certificates of acceptance of the transformation into a share society. Although we know that there are 700 thousand signatures, or 700 thousand votes, opinions, more than have ever been given at the referendums. You prevent transformation in such a way that citizens and citizens get what is theirs, and not what belongs to them on the basis of their citizenship status, or what falls on them on the basis of something else, but what belongs to them on the basis of overpaid premiums. The Insurance Act is more than clear in its 62nd Article. Since I only have four minutes left, I'll just read the last paragraph. This is the paragraph around which you made a final chaotic mess after our assessment, which will be the only positive feature that you will have, that will be a learning case, how to violate Slovenian legislation, how to break the Constitution, how to break the Constitutional Court Act, how to break the referendum law and the people's initiative, and most importantly, because we have also done most of the times how to break the rules of the National Assembly. Article 4 states: "Recast requires the approval of the Insurance Supervisory Agency." I don't know who's not clear in here. I will read again: "Recast requires the approval of the Insurance Supervisory Agency." First sentence, crystal clear. Second sentence: "The Insurance Supervisory Agency shall refuse to issue an authorisation request if the conversion could jeopardise the interests of the members." It's also perfectly clear. We have already defined in previous laws, ladies and gentlemen, who these members are. That they're members of insurance and insurance. There can't be a debate around this. We've already determined what a company is. If you don't know where we've defined it, we've defined an economic society law. But because otherwise you cannot stop the desire and aspirations of the Slovenian National Party after the enforcement or realization of the interest of millions of citizens and citizens, that is to say, to get what they paid too much in those years in the form of overpaid premiums, you have decided to choose a new moment today or yesterday. And since you called yourself two so-called insurance law experts in the National Assembly yesterday, they wrote out a so-called proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, namely that article which is already very clear, for which one of these self-declared experts in the field law claimed that it is perfectly clear and that he himself does not know why. When Members and Members later obtained this so-called authentic explanation, signed by or accompanied by all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group fighting for 1 million or for the well-being of one million citizens and citizens, you signed the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the New Slovenia Group of Members, the Slovenian People's Party of Parliament and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group of Members, and made it clear that the members, whether insured and insured or, in the third form, that one million Slovenian citizens and citizens will not receive those shares and at the level they belong to. In the National Party, we have obtained an opinion, the opinion of those legal experts who are usually accepted or leased by this same National Assembly against payment in order to resolve the most important legal materials, i.e. to monitor the work of the Constitutional Commission. Be careful, this same National Assembly rents and, of course, pays these same experts that we have requested from the National Party, given that we know that you are working contrary to the Constitution and that you are working contrary to the laws, that they also say so. They said that this morning. We have asked the leadership of the President of the National Assembly to share the views of these people, who are otherwise paid by you, and to make this opinion an integral part of the material for today's extraordinary session. This material didn't become an integral part, probably, but say I might be guessing, but this material didn't become an integral part of it because you don't like the contents of this letter. But it is clear from this letter, and it is very important, because we do not know why, because you have the power and can do anything, they are identical, and therefore this same material can also be used as a reminder to all of you today to accept something illegal, unconstitutional. Allow me to mention only those articles of the Constitution that you will violate today. You will violate Article 2 of the Constitution, which refers to the rule of law, you will violate Article 89, which refers to the legislative procedure, Article 3 in conjunction with Article 90, the legislative referendum, the third indent of Article 87, the veto of the Council of State, and the second indent of Article 107, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Slovenia. You all know you're going to break it. I'm afraid you're going to break it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Let me also answer with regard to the obvious that the material that the SNS Member Group wanted to provide was not transmitted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the material was immediately transmitted as you wished, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, to all Members and Members. However, only those materials which are the subject of discussion, such as the proposal of the Finance Committee, are put on the bench. Mr Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act provides that an insurance agency’s authorisation is required to transform an economic company in the form of a mutual insurance company into a share company. In doing so, the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall refuse to issue that authorisation if the conversion could jeopardise the interests of the members. A mutual insurance company organised in the legal form of a mutual insurance company, which is a legal status form under the insurance law. This is a specific legal form of the company which was established by the amendment of the Health Insurance and Health Act in 1998 and offers supplementary voluntary health insurance on the market. Mutual as a mutual insurance company must operate in accordance with the principle of reciprocity and solidarity, which is the specificity of this legal status form. Today, we have before us a proposal to amend the authentic interpretation of the first sentence of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, which reads as follows: "The authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be considered a mandatory condition for the initiation and implementation of the transformation procedure of the Mutual Insurance Company into a Shareholder Society." We have this explanation before us because there is obviously doubt as to whether it is a preliminary act in a procedure which is a condition for the adoption of the final decision of the competent authority, namely, the Mutual Assembly, or whether it is a consensus after the decisions on the recast have already been adopted. From the very point of view of the article, there is a high level of agreement between legal professionals that permission should be given in advance. If it were to be considered that only this could be done after the recast decisions already adopted, we would have consent and not permission. The Insurance Supervisory Agency must grant authorisation for the transformation of the company for mutual insurance in advance. This is a preliminary act in the process of any transformation, i.e. before deciding at the assembly. For reasons of transparency in the process of possible transformation, the Insurance Supervisory Agency must issue a permit in advance. In order to avoid this dilemma, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group that the proposal for an authentic interpretation must be adopted to ensure the clarity and clarity of the rules in force governing this area. It needs to be adopted for the protection of insured persons, in order to protect public interest, so that the process of possible transformation would be verifiable and transparent. We will therefore fully support the proposed proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and amendments to the Committee on Finance and monetary policy, which fully replaces the text of the interpretation. I therefore ask Members and Members who wish to debate to apply for the debate. I won't take any more of these applications into account. The debate of Members is limited to 5 minutes. Please raise your hand and with the help of Mr Plevelje we will make a list distributed in accordance with our way of discussing the form. Please. Jelinčič, Barovich, Brickle, Jerovšek, Rezman, Janc, Grims, Zagorac, Pece, Friend. Anyone else? Gjidaršič, School as procedural. Wait, we'll get together first. Anyone else? I'll read them. Proposer. That's what it says. Grimes is on the line in the debate, yes. I will read all the applications: Jelinčič, Barovič, Cvikl, Jerovšek, Rezman, Janc, Zagorac, Pece, Friend, Žnidaršič and proposer. Anyone else? Did I forget to write it down? No, no, no. Mr. Skolcz, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. These four days are sad days for Parliament and parliamentary democracy because Parliament is used for something that is, I will say, within the limits of reasonable, but with the consent of our colleagues and colleagues obviously acceptable. However, it is certainly not acceptable for you to try to limit this debate through a way of leading the debate. I believe that it is possible for someone to take the floor even after hearing other colleagues, other arguments, perhaps great nonsense, whatever, perhaps even arguments that change their mind. We have certainly been in a situation where you tried to prevent explanations of voice and this ended badly. I don't think there's a basis for this kind of restriction, and please leave the application open. It makes no sense for me to apply to the stock and then, like your party colleagues, vote against the debate. This is an abuse of the form of work in Parliament, and it is not even in the spirit of these exceptional situations that you have introduced in these four days, regardless of the fact that all parties obviously enjoy this very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u21	Mr Školč, I follow the sensible application of Rule 68(1) of the Rules of Procedure. If you have applied for a procedural proposal, may I take it that you suggest that Members may contact and discuss each other at any time? Nevertheless, I will put such a procedural proposal to the vote. Therefore, Members may apply at any time during the debate, but only once, this is already in Article 67. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 49 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 28. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 28.]] The proposed proposal is not accepted. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members in accordance with the schedule of declarations. Mr. Jelinčič, you have the floor. Do you have a procedural proposal, too? Does anyone else have a procedural proposal for us to go in line with all procedural proposals? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Mr President, I owe you in part an apology, not in part, but an apology, and I was also misled about the work when I said that you did not give material to the Slovenian National Party. The information that came to me also from our circles was in this part, unfortunately, inaccurate. So please accept your apology and at the same time apologize for using procedurally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. We begin with a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, the Slovenian National Party obtained the legal opinion of the Comparative Law Institute at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, signed by Prof. Dr. Lojzet Udeta, Prof. Dr. Francija Grad, assistant mag. Sebastian Nerad and assistant mags. Sasha Zagorec. The fact is, this legal opinion says that the National Assembly went overboard. Unfortunately, since time does not allow me to go into the full legal opinion in detail, I think it would make sense for me to summarize it at least a little, because I am sure that most of my fellow Members have thrown this legal opinion into an angle and will not deal with it. Perhaps this legal opinion will ever hurt Dr Cerar, who wrote a different legal opinion on behalf of the National Assembly, in style, so that maybe I or some other lawyer can ask him, "Mr Cerar, where do you have a building permit for your law degree?" Because this relationship is the only one that is possible in this case. The question they answered in the legal opinion was: what is the legal nature of the authentic interpretation of the law in the Slovenian legal order and whether an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 was adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The answer is that in the first decision we know that the fundamental rule in adopting an authentic interpretation of the law is that it must not be supplemented or amended by legislative decisions in order to obtain new content. And that is exactly what is happening with this proposed authentic explanation. Come in. The second conclusion that these prominent legal experts have written is that, in the present case, it is not an authentic interpretation of the law, but a change to the law which should be adopted in accordance with the legislative procedure. The third conclusion is that the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law at the time of the referendum activities on motherhood, which is partially or entirely the subject of a referendum initiative or requirement, is unconstitutional. And the fourth conclusion is that an authentic interpretation of the law is adopted in contravention of Article 2 of the Constitution relating to the rule of law, Article 3 of the Constitution, Article 89 of the Constitution which speaks of the legislative procedure, Article 90 of the Constitution which speaks of the legislative referendum, Article 107 of the Constitution, which speaks of the promotion of the law and contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution, where it states precisely and clearly that laws and other regulations cannot have an effect to the contrary. It seems that the National Assembly, like the government, will whistle at everything. I think it is a heavy stain on Slovenian parliamentaryism. The government had enough time to do what she didn't do. Last October, the Mutual announced that it would change its society. It repeated it all over again in November of the month, but nothing happened and happened until just before the plantation. Of course, we are convinced that there are other interests back here and that these interests must be protected by some. Once again, I will repeat what some say is not true, but I think that some ministers in the government have tried to transport Prime Minister Janša through water thirstyly, because I am sure that Mr Janša would not allow such a law, as they have changed the first extract or the first draft of the law, which was even worse than these proposed matters. I don't think it's good for the National Assembly to accept such binding documents in this way. We return to 1949, when all the shareholders and other private companies in the then Democratic Federal Yugoslavia were maintained. And if, with the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, we have decided on the free market, the movement of capital, even in accordance with European banners, then I do not know why we are taking steps back. That'll cost us dearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. So, the final list is as follows: now followed by Mr Cvikl, then Jerovšek, Barovic, Rezman, Zagorac, Janc, Pece, Žnidaršič, Friend and then proposed, Mr Grims. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will give my opinion on what we are doing today, and then I will finally make a procedural proposal, so that there will be no doubt as to whether the National Assembly today, when deciding on the content of the authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, is indeed working contrary to what some experts say, contrary to the basic dictates of the law itself. In this regard, I would like to remind colleagues who have obtained the opinion of the Institute that the opinion that you say we will do something contrary to the Constitution today is the text of an authentic interpretation that we have changed on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy - and we have changed it on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service. So if you go into this, you will see that Mr Cerar, that fellow Members and that the gentlemen who wrote the external legal opinion actually said the same thing. And this is that the authentic explanation should only say that the authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is considered to be a condition and that this is not something that the Mutual Insurance Company, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, something they have not understood so far. When the Insurance Act was adopted, Article 62, paragraph 4, clearly stated that authorisation was necessary and even more so, he said that this permit could not be issued if the interests of members were not protected. I regret that, above all, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Executive Authority have not fully provided, until now, all of what would be expected directly after the dictatorship of the Insurance Act. It is therefore entirely appropriate that, through an authentic interpretation which does not go beyond the provisions of Article 62, paragraph 4, we clearly tell the Insurance Supervisory Agency what to do. We had a lot of discussions this morning, including holidays, because these different opinions needed to be looked at. But if you go deeper, you will see that Mr Ude wrote that something is contrary to the Constitution to the text of the authentic interpretation that we have changed on the committee and framed it into the provisions of the law. So I think that today I will completely peacefully confirm the text of the authentic interpretation and thus express, as part of the legislative authority, the clear will to how the Insurance Supervisory Agency should operate. Whether this agency does it or not, we don't know. We have heard Mr Goriško today, who said that he could issue a permit, will have to ask for this permission and so on, so it is obvious that this yoke of snake will continue for quite some time. However, in order not to be in doubt whether the National Assembly here is acting contrary to the Constitution, and I do not know what our colleagues from the Slovenian National Party are saying, but I myself have made the issue of the legal and legislative service clear on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, or whether the new text of the authentic interpretation goes beyond the rule of law. And I propose, Mr President, if, of course, it is again clear that we are going beyond the constitutional provisions to be called upon in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the legislative and legal service to tell us again. After all, it has been six, seven hours since the first time the opinion came into the house, and now it is also signed and we listen to the opinion of the legislative and legal service. However, I think that Mr Cerar, Mrs Ogrincheva and Mr Rogelj could peacefully sign under this and, of course, give us an appropriate suggestion as to how to properly formulate the text of the authentic interpretation, and I will support this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Jerovšek. Get Mr. Barovic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will myself support the authentic interpretation of Article 62(4) of the Insurance Act. That the authorisation of the Insurance Supervisory Agency - I agree that this is a mandatory procedural condition and I do not think that this will cause any unconstitutionality or in any way interfere with constitutionality. I personally believe that such an interpretation of Article 4 should at least be clear so far, and that the actual drafter of the law had in mind such an explanation and such a way of functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. For this reason, I also have a taste of suffering, but for another reason, as my colleague Pavlich has mentioned, the Agency has not had such status since the adoption of this law. Indeed, actually, as I mentioned yesterday, even when I was a member of the previous term, I somehow had confidence in this institution, one of the few institutions in the past, because it seems to me that this institution has always tried to act in the interests of the insurers and that it has often also had problems. I must say that in one period of fighting against wild privatisation or the way in which Triglav's insurance company was transformed, in some way, before the same fate as that of the paying agency, which was simply terminated and in some way there was a conversion that it was only too much and it remained. And if the agency had the necessary support, it would be unnecessary today to take an authentic explanation. That is also why I think that when we talk about the fact that it is not a matter of nationalisation. As a matter of fact, we are merely holding back the change in status, today nothing is maintained or nationalised and will not, we are merely delaying the status change that is to take place in accordance with the law. And since it was said in the opinion of one representative, one party said that they were performing on behalf of a million insured persons, I believe that it was meant to do so on my behalf as well. For this reason, allow me to state my authentic explanation, my authentic and my opinion that I do not need such paternalism, that someone on my behalf demands or proposes changes or protestes against an authentic explanation, I am responsible for my authentic explanation. In other words, I would like to thank you for such a performance, but as I say, I believe that, for the many reasons that have arisen over time, this authentic explanation needs to be adopted today, so that it is perfectly clear what the procedural preconditions are for transforming the Mutual, for example, into a share society and that we will do something in the interests of the insurers. It's just a matter of time, we're not at a time when I don't know what's changing so dramatically and so drasticly that this insurance company should accept the status change at any time. And we will also achieve this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor to prepare Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u30	Thank you. In the text of the authentic interpretation, the National Assembly, with the exception of six members of the Slovenian National Party, has laid down the rule that the Agency’s authorisation is an act to be issued before, I emphasise: before the final decision of the General Assembly of the Mutual Insurance Society is taken, of course, that the Agency must not decide on the transformation into a share company until it receives the Agency’s authorisation. With such an attitude, if you are honest and honest, of course we cannot agree. Why not? The first argument on this point is that the structure of Article 62 itself is already built so that the Agency’s authorisation requirement is regulated in the last paragraph of this Article, the fourth paragraph of which makes it logical to conclude that the Agency’s authorisation is the last act in the company’s transformation process of course. At the request of an authentic explanation, the Agency was to issue a permit before it could see the decision of the Assembly on reshaping. According to your household, the agency will give or will not give up the Bianca. What was the agency supposed to give permission for earlier? About reshaping - what if he doesn't see the conclusion? The authentic interpretation you are putting to the vote today provides that the final word in the reshaping of the congregation of society is given. That's a great, wonderful move. The Assembly will, of course, be granted a permit, first the permission of the insurance agency, and then, after that, it will say "fuck" the agency, "fuck" the members and all those who will want to "fuck" them because they will already have a permit. Therefore, it is only logical and acceptable for the Agency to decide on the authorisation after a final decision has been taken by the Assembly on the transformation. Let me draw attention to section 57 of the Insurance Act. This expressly provides that the validity of the decision of the Assembly requires the authorisation of the Agency. It is obvious that the provision is based on the assumption that the Assembly first adopts a decision with all the components and then, under this Decision, the Agency issues or takes a permit. The authentic explanation is reversed, which is here today you suggest, completely on your head. The legal rule introduced by the National Assembly, the authentic interpretation of the law, according to the Slovenian National Party, also assesses, on the basis of the professional evaluation obtained, that it does not constitute an interpretation, but constitutes an amendment to the law. And so that those who are not with us will know what this means - it means constitutional violation. Why? Because it doesn't clarify the law, but it changes it, interferes with it and transforms it. Because the authentic interpretation applies from - to back, which is the general rule of the law that no law should apply to back. However, of course, the motive of the National Assembly, which introduces an authentic explanation, is the constitutional dispute, because its purpose is to bypass the ongoing legislative procedure and the procedure followed by the legislative referendum. The only real truth is this and the only possible constitutionally consistent conduct is that in the time of the referendum activities given on our basis, our foundation collected sufficient numbers or did not gather enough signatures and that no other activity would run. I'll finish. I confirm the words of the previous interlocutor - yes, the dogs are barking, the caravan is moving on. It is obvious that you are playing us nicely, because if we first decided on the authentic explanation and then on the referendum that we have presented, we would find that this is still a very constitutional and only democratic way of dealing with all the insurers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor. Get Mr. Zagorac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Those who supported the authentic explanation were labelled as opponents of the transformation into a share society. This is simply not true, a whole range of those we supported have also stated that we are not opponents, but that clear rules must be laid down as to how this transformation takes place. Another inaccuracies occurred when some mentioned the need for 750,000 people and statements to be prepared so that the process of transformation could begin. This is not true because the law specifically states that 75% of the votes cast are required before the process begins, which means 100 of the 75, out of the thousand 750, and so on by the numbers up. With regard to the opinion of the Institute, which is repeatedly quoted, let me say the following. We discussed this at 9:00 a.m. on the board. The opinion was written very quickly, so to speak, just before the laborers, in time distress, so it also has a whole range of flaws. We can argue that because it's dated today's date, and at 9 o'clock we got it on the table. But the weaknesses are my way of thinking about it. First of all, with an allusion to socialism, we want to say that those of us who think otherwise advocate socialism. Do not talk about the need to respect the legislation that is now in force, the rules of procedure, and do not talk about whether we want to be a rule of law if we respect the existing rules of procedure. Secondly, some abdictic claims have just been heard, and some of them are also found in this opinion. This is because those who wrote the opinion claim that their only explanation is correct and no one else does. We don't know how they got this God-given talent to discover the last truth. The next thing that's problematic is that in times of time, things have been written down to contradict the authentic interpretation adopted by the National Assembly, it says at 9 a.m., and now we're just discussing whether we're going to accept it or not. Now we're talking about the proposal. The next flaw that could be mentioned is also that certain articles or certain points in Article 62 are simply not taken into account. They only take into account those who are good for them. But when we read in connotation, we see that there is no need to have a bad conscience when we vote to get an authentic explanation. I think it should really take some time for those who write legal opinions at the Institute to take some more time, more than half an hour to get three pages of legal opinion, to at least read what they wrote, not to get involved in such a quick solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Zagorac has the floor to prepare Mr Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Most of my interlocutors from other parties, not from the Slovenian National Party, look more papal than the pope himself or more lawyers than the entire legal institute of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law. Not to be like them lawyers, I'll be more practical. The Committee's amendment, which you will adopt today, no doubt stipulates that it is a prior authorisation that an insurance undertaking may apply to all insurance undertakings, to start the transformation procedure only after it has been authorised by the Agency. A few questions on this subject. Let me know when the transformation process is officially started. All those who have been signed under this matter have, above all, stabbed me in the eye by the execution of the largest government party representative who started its implementation with the words: "Members of a particular insurance undertaking shall not be harmed, for that is when the agency issues a negative opinion." I would be very pleased if Mr Jazbec would explain to me how, when the agency gives its previous opinion, it knows whether, in a certain transformation that has not yet begun - and also the transformation of the Mutual has not yet begun - it knows whether this transformation will actually harm the members, whether the laws will be broken and whether the Constitution will be violated. The next question that comes to me is the fact that the procedure - one insurance company gets permission to start the transformation process; we do not know how this transformation will take place. If the transformation, say, takes place unlawfully, unconstitutionally, the injured members of such an insurance company will be injured, then the agency will probably accept another permit, which will no longer be authorised, but will be a ban on further transformation, in your opinion. And last but not least, the highest authority of each insurance company is the congregation. The congregation, then, is the one who must make a request or express a desire to be transformed. After what you will accept today, the congregation should meet for the first time and decide - we want to change. Then the agency, I don't know what kind of verdict, I don't know what kind of basis it would issue a positive permit or a negative one. If he issues a positive issue, the congregation will meet again and then, according to you, in effect, decide what the transformation will be and whether it will be again — perhaps within fourteen days, three weeks or four months, the members of the congregation will reconsider and say that they are no longer to be transformed. Such nonsense will be accepted today or today - in practice completely, completely impossible. And one more thing. When you unanimously supported this law in 2000, no one questioned the authentic interpretation of Article 62 of the Insurance Act. You obviously understood everything back then. And today you need an authentic explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In these days, we have heard many debates on this subject, on many committees, in Parliament, in the media, in short, on a topic that is very topical. And, we want or we don't want to, we have to admit that colleagues are good at managing the parliamentary procedure in the National Assembly, that they obviously have good advisers, both of them, and that they are obviously successful at doing so. Unfortunately, the objectives they set themselves are not good for Slovenian citizens or for those insured persons, among whom I belong. Making healthcare profits seems simply inappropriate, unethical, and this, in short, does not work together. Every beat that we do, what we do, is not good, especially for this sensitive area, such as health care, insurance, for citizens who are so many in one place. That's why I think we need to end this story slowly. I think that the adoption of this authentic interpretation of Article 62, paragraph 4, is necessary, necessary and meaningful at this time, because, after all, I only hope that colleagues do not already have any new actions in the background and that there will be a new extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly tomorrow on the subject of the Mutual. I hope it's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Pache has the floor. Let's get Mr. Znidaršič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u38	The text of the so-called harmonised new authentic interpretation, which, in the opinion of some of the discussers, is intended to express or compensate for the error which is pointed out by the expert opinion which we have forwarded to you in the Slovenian National Party, reads: "The authorisation of the insurance agency is considered a mandatory condition for the initiation and implementation of the process of transformation of the mutual insurance company into a share company." In other words, the authentic interpretation requires prior consent or prior authorisation by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. However, in my speech, I would like to point out only to all those who claim that such interpretation is in accordance with the Constitution and that such interpretation is in accordance with defined or warned errors by constitutional lawyers, so allow me to quote, emphasise, quote: "The provisions of Article 62 of the Insurance Act provide that the conversion of a mutual insurance company into a share company requires the authorisation of an insurance agency. The National Assembly has justified the need for an authentic interpretation of the law by apparently remaining in doubt as to whether the Agency's authorisation is a preliminary act and is continuing or whether it is an act issued on the basis of a preliminary decision of the Assembly." So, in the National Assembly you have created confusion and the question whether the Agency's permission must be obtained in advance or sufficient, we say, the logical path that the Assembly is reshaping and, of course, the Assembly's adoption of the act is going to be approved by the Agency, which would of course be logical. Furthermore, I would like to inform you of the findings of the constitutional lawyers or that of the legal profession in our country. "In the text of the authentic interpretation, the National Assembly wrote down the rule that the Agency's authorisation is an act to be issued before the final decision of the Mutual Insurance Assembly is taken. From which it follows that the Assembly may not at all decide to transform into a company of shares until it has obtained the Agency's permission." That's what you wrote down, that's what lawyers say, that's what the legal summit in our country says. So he's summarizing your findings. Now, their answer to your conclusion. "It is not possible to agree with this position. Thus, a certain interpretation of the national council goes beyond the interpretation of Article 62, paragraph 4, of the Insurance Act and in fact constitutes an amendment. By using the method of interpretation, it is only possible to reach the only possible conclusion... - and in doing so I jump in and say, this is the only possible decision you had at your disposal last week when the Slovenian National Party offered it to you, and also this week when the same Slovenian National Party offered it to you and now I continue to do so, "that is, it can only be concluded that the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act provides that the Agency’s authorisation should be obtained only after the adoption and on the basis of the decision of the Mutual Insurance Society Assembly on the conversion to a Shareholder Society." I believe the microphone carries a lot. However, we cannot say that you, with your proposal for a decision drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service drawn up on the basis of the political consensus of those major parties, follow the legal opinion which we will receive in the National Assembly and which the Slovenian National Party's delegation has distributed to you before the meeting and which it has also placed on the home working body. We have an act among ourselves that does not follow the direction of the rule of law in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor to prepare Mr Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In any case, it is not true that the prior authorisation of the insurance agency would constitute a Bianca menu of mutual interest, for example, so that it could then accept something other than that allowed. The law states that not only should the agency be informed of what will be decided at the assembly, but even all members of the Mutual should be informed by law and even have the possibility of filing complaints at least three days before the meeting. This means that it is not a permit for any decision to be taken in the Assembly in a category to be discussed after the decision has been taken, but rather a matter to be clarified in advance and cannot be discussed after the decision has been taken and the decision is taken on the basis of an authorisation. It's like, say, building a house without a building permit and then asking permission. It just doesn't work out. First the permit, then the execution of a project, the adoption of a decision, etc. And in this spirit, we do not understand the perceptions that we are all unable to understand that only after the adoption of the decision to change the status of the Mutual can we discuss the permission, not before it. This is how I do not understand and reject such instigation of the complete work capacity of all Members, who are over 80 of us, who are thinking that permission is not what should have happened after that, but before the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Friend has the floor to prepare Mr Grims as a representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear President, your honors are here! You have already violated everything you are in violation of, yes, the Constitution is no world to you, so that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not at all worth mentioning, nor would you repeat the procedural processes that you have rejected non-chalantly. But since the devil still eats the fly, you found yourself at the end of this fine act of authentic law, let me tell you what the authentic interpretation of the law is. The authentic interpretation of the law was only known in the regulations of the former socialist regimes. It is an act that is not typical of the parliamentary system, but was summarized by the Constitution of the Soviet Union of 1936 and 1977. After the transition from the parliamentary system to the parliamentary system, this institution has also maintained the business system in our independent country. So we've kept something that's foreign to us. And if we come from this, then the first conclusion is that it is a fundamental rule in the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law, that it must not be supplemented and amended by legal provisions, clearly - you have also done so. That doesn't bother you either. And, with respect, it would be best if so-called nationalisation, at least we know this term in the Balkans 'acceptance', you also do it in Triglav and Adriatic and the matter will be perfectly clear and the insurers will be placed in the same position and there will be no discrimination in this area. That would be almost the best thing to do, and the closest thing we can get is that there are no laws, no constitutional provisions, in short, and even less important to us are the rules of procedure that have essentially led to the work of this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Friend. And please, Mr Grimes, on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Thanks again for saying that. Just a few short answers. First of all, I would like to point out that there is no way that the applicants can or should not be owned by the Mutual or how they should be transformed by this proposal. It is only an interpretation of what the National Assembly had in mind at the time and in writing into the standards of law, which, of course, has long been in force. Second. As regards the Agency, I would point out that the Agency is, by law, an autonomous and independent body reporting to the National Assembly only once a year, otherwise it is not directly subordinated to it and, of course, is not an integral part of the government or directly subordinated to it. It is said that if the agency acts differently than we all imagine, and even as we believe it does in the law, we cannot therefore blame the one who cannot directly influence it. But, of course, we can do our part, what is our right, and that is what we are doing today. Thirdly, I would like to reiterate, the difference between authorisation and approval is known in all legal lexicons and has existed for decades. I've been talking about this since the beginning. I wouldn't say it again. I'll say it in a simpler and simpler way. See if anyone gets to build a house without permission, then in a functioning legal country, such a building will tear to the ground and everything will return to its original state. This is the role of the authorisation in some procedure. Permission is only what opens up the possibility of execution to complete a procedure. Then, for this reason, because we are not creating any new law today, we are not writing any new legal norm here, but we are only undoubtedly saying what the law says all the time, in a clear, understandable way, so that there will be no doubt any more, of course, all of these scenarios that have been discussed, because if once this point is reached, what permission is in the process, consent and that this consensus is linked to what has been agreed in the legal section for a long time, then it is clear that it is necessary to submit to the Agency a proposal for a single decision, equipped with all the elements required by the law itself, the Agency decides and if it so decides, it is bound by the final decision of the assembly to precisely this project, to precisely this decision, which fulfils all the conditions prescribed by the Agency. Each bounce from this framework means that the permit is not given and that all further proceedings are legally null and void, this legal nullity in fact you yourself have made very clear when you quoted some other articles which then connect to this article, but of course this is the case once, as it is said, an agreement is reached on what the permit is. According to local words, permission means in this regard today only that, once again, the legal profession has been about this for many years you have been completely clear and it is a very high degree of consensus, now two university professors may have a different opinion in this case, we have also been informed of two university professors who have given an opinion that is exactly what we are accepting today, and this diversity of opinions is accepted by all as quality. But today, with this compulsory explanation, we will only tell what the law says all the time, according to the local word, to those who do not know, or do not want to read the law as we wrote it when it was adopted in this national assembly, but we will make it clear what it says. Just this and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-25-SDZ4-Izredna-16.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr Grimes. We have thus concluded the debate between Members and Members. We're moving on to decision-making. First, I inform you that we will first decide in accordance with Rules 149 to 152, where it is determined how a compulsory or authentic interpretation of the law is to be adopted, we will first decide whether an authentic interpretation of the law is to be adopted and, if this decision is to be adopted, we will decide on the amendment of the home labour body, which provides a full explanation. So we move on to the decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act shall be adopted." We're voting. The vote on this first proposal is under way. There are 56 Members present and 50 votes against 6. (For the vote was 50.)(against 6.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, we are moving on to decisions on the amendment of the Committee on Finance is not a monetary policy to the proposal for a text of an authentic interpretation which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item, and I also conclude the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for participating.
