ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are detained and today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlich, Bogdan Barovic, Roberto Battelli, Mag. Franz Capuder by 1300 hours, Zvonko Černač, Geza Juban, Ljubo Germič, mag. Branko Grims, Ivan Jelen, Miran Jerič, Jožef Jerovšek, Aurelio Yuri, Franz Kangler, Bojan Kontic, Breda Pecan from 12.30 p.m. on, Jakob Presječnik from 12.00 p.m. on and Willy Rezman. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Submission of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia to the Judges of the International Court of Justice. I would like to inform you that a total of 40 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was tabled by a Member of the Council, Dr Mark Pavlih. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the proposer of the law for further explanation of the bill. Member Marko Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u2	Good morning, Mr. Vice President! Good morning to the government, wherever they are! Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a chapter from Greek mythology, namely, that of Sisyphus, who rolled a heavy rock night and day to the top of the hill, and then fell back into the valley every time. We can with great certainty suggest the hypothesis that Mr Sisif was also part of the opposition at the time. And that's how I feel on my own, and I'm still hoping that the rock that's already fallen to the bottom can somehow be stopped. Nevertheless, a few words to explain my proposal. In 2001, some of you who were Members and Members of Parliament had already adopted a fairly solid law on proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts who had achieved transparency in such proceedings. Later, however, in one year of law, it turned out to be too heavy, too narrow to close our doors to such candidates. Therefore, a novel was adopted in 2002 which extended the circle of those persons who could run for judges and also arbitrators and other important functions at the international scene, which was good. However, this novel did not solve the main problem. Indeed, we are one of the few countries where candidates for international courts and arbitrations are elected by Parliament and then, of course, go abroad and have to be re-elected. I felt this rigid procedure on my skin. The procedure lasts about five, six months, from the moment the Minister of Justice signs the vacancy, then collects the applications, checks them out, sends them to the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic has to receive an opinion from the Judicial Council and from the Government and then proposes one or more candidates to the National Assembly and the National Assembly votes. Many experts and diplomats drew attention to the stiffness and longevity of the procedure. Let me just mention Dr. Ernest Petrič, the well-known ambassador and also the professor of international relations. Another problem is the politicisation of such a procedure, for several times we have witnessed in Parliament that, for political reasons, a large majority have opted for another candidate, as proposed by the President of the State on the basis of the expert opinion of the Council of Justice, which is a constitutional body composed of six judges and five top lawyers, which of course is not good. That is why, at the beginning of last year, I proposed to Minister Sturm with a written initiative to prepare appropriate legislative changes and the Minister responded positively to me, but these changes did not take place. That is why I have done this on my own, and before you is a proposal for a law that could be described as short as possible: we are transferring the competence of international candidates from the National Assembly to the President of the Republic. Why the President of the Republic? Because, in my opinion, it is a person or, if you want, an institution, an organ that is the least politicised, even though it also applies at this level. I therefore propose that the President of the Republic be given this opportunity, but of course he would propose candidates on the basis of an opinion based on a proposal from the profession, i.e. different legal faculties, international law departments dealing with it. The second part of my proposal, however, refers to some nonconsistency or even some unconstitutionality in the current law. Let me just mention one thing. The current text of the law states that where an international treaty lays down specific conditions for an international judge to take these conditions into account as well. Such a provision is wrong, contrary to Article 8 of the Constitution, which gives primate to international law. Therefore, any international agreement ratified by Slovenia, which has been published, has priority over national legislation. And Article 8 goes further, Article 8 says that courts must take such a provision directly and also all other bodies. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to reconsider whether it would be advisable at this stage to support my proposal, i.e. to vote against the decision of the parent working body, and later the Minister can prepare his proposal, but I am afraid that there will be many precious opportunities for the lost. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you, Dr. Pavlich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Franz Kangler, is expected to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He's not here. Member Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The bill is well-intentioned, good and necessary. I do not understand why this proposal was essentially rejected by the mother labour body, which in fact gave a negative indication of this proposal, because some members agreed that it was necessary to simplify the procedure for appointing candidates for judges in international courts. Some, however, were merely looking for beautiful mistakes in this law and felt that the bill should be rejected for formal reasons because it was not open, specifically, Article 5. Therefore, the establishment of an effective simple procedure for proposing and electing Slovenian candidates for judges in international courts is necessary and, of course, we do not understand the government when it says that the bill does not support what is a kind of surprise, although they agree that the work of the national assembly and the Member of Parliament is burdened. On the other hand, all mouths are full of judges who are supposed to be called non-political. So, I ask you not to take account of what he has concluded or what decision he has adopted by his mother's working body and to accompany this law for further consideration and sufficient support, as this will also give us possible easier procedures and better judges in international courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members, Secretary of State. Members of the DeSUS proposed law will not support us, but we agree, in principle, with the proposal of Ambassador Dr Marka Pavliha, that the procedure for selecting candidates for international courts should certainly be simplified. As a solution, the applicant states that the candidates would be elected by the President of the State on the basis of the opinion of the Judicial Council and possibly by the governments and the professional public, or that the candidates would be elected by the Judicial Council. It also proposes that the invitation to tender for a vacant seat in an international court be published not only in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia but also in at least one of the general informational journals and on the websites of the Ministry. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the law currently in force contains gaps and shortcomings that have proved to be in practice and that are clearly needed to be remedied. In particular, it is a matter of too long of appointment procedures, but the proposal for a law on these shortcomings does not fully address them, as there are no proposed amendments and additions to all the articles that would address these shortcomings. In addition, the government has already announced and promised to prepare a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, which will fully address these issues, and after a proposal will be tabled concerning all the articles necessary to remedy the shortcomings, we will be able to discuss the dilemma raised by the submission of this proposal, namely the body to appoint candidates for judges of international courts. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the bill, but we will not support it or support the position of the working body that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, because in our opinion it is inadequate and incomplete to address the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we find that the purpose of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts is good because it follows the simplification and acceleration of proceedings. Due to lengthy procedures for the appointment of candidates for judges of international courts in practice, there is often a lack of time to establish appropriate international contacts with persons or institutions having an important impact on the decision-making process when appointing international judges. The Republic of Slovenia elects or appoints only a candidate and then this candidate has greater or less options for final appointment or election, including or mainly on the basis of relevant international contacts or lobbying, if you wish. And if the process of determining candidates within our country is too long, the possibility of obtaining international support is, of course, harder or simply running out of time. Therefore, there is certainly an interest in amending this law and thus increasing the possibility of Slovenian candidates for judges of international courts. On the basis of such a finding and because of such a position, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that it would be more appropriate, instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to designate the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the State authority that appoints candidates for judges of international courts. We believe that it is more appropriate for the government to decide on this decision on a proposal from the Minister of Justice after obtaining the opinion of the Council of Justice than for the President of the State to take that decision, as proposed by the proposer of the law under consideration. According to our constitutional regime, we have parliamentary democracy, contrary to some other systems, where the presidential system has been established with stressed presidential powers. We believe that there are no special reasons to justify the extension of powers to the President of the State, who has important powers, but these powers do not only demonstrate the expansion and thereby reduce the powers of Parliament and its executive branch of power, which is supported by the parliamentary ruling coalition each time. Unfortunately, the proposed law of the honourable fellow Member, Dr. Pavliha, also contains formal obstacles that prevent the law from going into further legislative procedure and from amending or supplementing the existing text of the proposed law further with appropriate amendments. As a result of these legal shortcomings, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group cannot support the proposed law, as these essential shortcomings cannot be remedied in the process of enacting the law. The proposed law does not contain a proposal to amend Article 5, which requires the Minister of Justice to submit applications to the President of the Republic of Slovenia for candidates who have not been rejected or rejected. This Article is not subject to amendment of the proposed law and cannot therefore be considered and cannot be amended by appropriate amendments or by appropriate amendment, although this would then be necessary in the light of the purpose pursued by the law. This is also why our parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendments to the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, as they do not meet the conditions for further legislative proceedings. We will therefore support the proposal for a decision by the Internal Policy Committee that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Dr Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u10	Have a nice hello to all of you. The aim of the novel is to simplify the process of proposing candidates significantly, as it has proved in practice that it defines the existing law in a rather complex way. The candidates for judges of international courts are now being decided by the National Assembly and, with our amendments to the law, they would transfer this power to the President of the State. It also turned out that 2001 and 2002 passed and amended legislation in practice is considered bureaucratic, while the longevity of the selection process makes it impossible to lobby in time and thus reduces Slovenia's chances. In order to simplify the selection of candidates for the International Court of Justice by amending the law, at the beginning of last year, Dr Marko Pavlih, in his parliamentary initiative, referred to the Minister of Justice, Lovr Šturm, who agreed with the need for amendments, but since nothing had happened so far after a year and a half in this area, Dr Pavlih himself decided to submit a proposal to amend and supplement this law. I would like to point out that Slovenia is one of the few countries where candidates for international courts are decided by Parliament, so this amendment is intended to transfer this power to the President of the State. By conferring power on the President of the State, we can have a significant impact on the reduction of politicisation, which has already taken place in the selection of candidates for judges in the National Assembly. Let me just mention last year's case of Constitutional Court Judge Mirjam Škirk, who was initially not selected as a candidate for a Member of the Constitutional Arbitration Court in The Hague because of her decision in a particular case. This is evidence of the extent to which the National Assembly can reach out to the judiciary. And an additional argument for the proposed law is the support of the judiciary as a constitutional body composed of judges and legal experts. The new law is therefore intended to prevent political control of judges and to ensure the overriding of professional arguments over political ones in the selection process. In view of the timely lobbying in international organisations, the proposal introduces a preliminary procedure and when the international court makes a public call, it is usually in diplomatic circles that it knows which countries will propose candidates to fill the vacant city and who their candidates are. The proposed amendments would address some of the shortcomings of the law and possible non-constitutionality. The law now states, inter alia, that domestic law has a right over international law. In addition, calls for candidates for members of international courts would be better presented to the public, in at least one printed media originating in the whole country and on the websites of the Ministry, as they are often overlooked in the Official Journal. The coalition and the government, in their rejection position, have shown an immeasurable appetite after the continuation of all functions and positions in the country, with the main criterion not being the quality of the candidate, but rather its political definition. The latter best illustrates the election of the candidate for Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Recently, the National Assembly also rejected the proposal by the President of the Republic that Mira Prek be elected as Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, and Preka was elected by the President of the Republic as one of the three candidates referred to him by the Judicial Council. The President of the Republic decided, as I have just said, and because Prek was not elected, the President of the State proposed to the National Assembly a second candidate or candidate for election. The candidate has been elected and, for reasons of the decision of the national assembly to be appropriate, it is not possible to ignore the fact that she has served in the past as the secretary-general of the government, composed of today's ruling coalition. For all of this, we propose that you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Member Miran Potrč will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we will not support the proposal of the labour force so that the law does not continue. In many proposals for the appointment of international judges, we have also been warned by the Government so far that the procedure is not appropriate, that many times due to the procedure we have, we are delaying the candidature that the procedure, as laid down in our legislation, is not adapted to concrete options for achieving the best results, and several times it has been said that the law will be right and necessary to be amended and amended. You all agree with this, but when an honourable fellow Member prepares a proposal, perhaps not the only possible but acceptable and good one, then you find in the government and in the government coalition a million reasons why the law cannot go through the procedure and cannot achieve the final result. At this point, where we all detect weaknesses, this is really unacceptable behavior. And I expect that, by the end of this point and by deciding on it, the realization that, also on the basis of a proposal from my colleague Paulia, a final solution can be drawn up, and that we will reject the position of the parent working body and make an effort in further consideration, including by means of the government and various views, to create solutions that will be better than the present law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. There is also a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! The Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts was adopted and supplemented in the previous term. It then filled the legal void and helped to ensure transparency in the selection procedures. Slovenia is represented by quite a few judges in international courts. Judges in international organisations are eminent experts and also a good promotion for the Republic of Slovenia. In some organizations, the seat of the judge of Slovenia is automatically based on membership, and in others among the many candidates is elected by the body of the international organisation. Following the current law, a list of candidates applying for a public invitation shall be sent to the President of the Republic. After obtaining the opinion of the Government and the Council of Justice, it shall be designated by the candidacy and shall send its proposals to the State Assembly, which shall elect a candidate for secret elections. However, amendments to the law proposed by Mr Pavlich foresee that the candidates are appointed by the President of the Republic. This decision is basically argued by the proposer by predominance of expertise and by impeding the political control of judges. In Novi Slovenija, the proposed method of proposing candidates does not seem most appropriate, even taking into account some of the formal shortcomings already mentioned in the bill. We believe that it would be more appropriate to find a more comprehensive solution covering both the procedure for proposing candidates and the procedure for appointing a deputy elected judge; this would also eliminate the duality of the past. For these reasons, the proposed amendments in New Slovenia cannot be supported and we will support the decision of the parent committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item or no later than 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law amending the Consumer Protection Act. We have 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this law, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the applicants for further explanation of the bill. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Sas Pečet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The policy objective, or a better stated policy task, should be that, irrespective of their position, whatever their distance from the centre itself, the economic centre or the territorial centre, makes it possible for these ends of Slovenia to move forward. The fact is that Slovenian policy is known only for every four years to be very friendly to these remote places. The fact is that in this period, which we call an electoral campaign, we all promise, regardless of customer affiliation, and it is only then that we are united in how we will allow individual parts of Slovenia, especially those that are more remote, to the conditions which will enable these ends to be the most economic, social, cultural, whatever leads towards that step forward. This is provided by the law that we are offering you today for admission, i.e. by a proposal for a law amending the consumer protection law. The proposer, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, is pursuing 5 objectives in the Act. First time. The law provides for the use of Slovenian language in dealing with consumers in bilingual areas, i.e. in the areas of national communities. Another time. It prevents the restriction of competition in those areas. Third time. The law promotes freedom of economic initiative and integration. Fourth time. It facilitates the flow of goods and services in the internal market. Fifth. It allows for equal development of specific areas of the Republic of Slovenia. So, the law pursues those goals that you pursue, but only during that period of the month before the elections. Allow me to tell you in these three minutes how this situation has occurred, which prevents economic kindness or economic development in this area. Thus, in April 2004 the National Assembly adopted an amendment, in the third reading of the consumer protection law, placing economic operators in unequal, unequal and, of course, uncompetitive situations with companies that are in a wide variety of cases only 100 metres away from the area. So, in neighbouring countries, whether it's in Hungary or whether it's in Italy. According to our assessment, the provision adopted by the National Assembly at that time in 2004 - and this assessment is confirmed by the economic operators to whom business is difficult - dictates the change we are offering you today. Companies operating in this area must operate not only in an administrative sense but also in a substantive sense, a variety of the same company, in three languages, as a result of the decision taken at that time by the National Assembly. This is a tripling of costs for that product. In particular, if we look at these companies that have only their own network of shops or production, in short, the elements that communicate with consumers, we see that we have many companies in Slovenia that have a significant price incentive to perform on a particular segment of our market just because of the mentioned material. The proposal we offer you within the National Party is very simple - I quote the first, most important and substantive article: "The company must deal with consumers in the Slovenian language. In an area where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live autonomously, the languages of the national community may also be used in addition to the Slovenian language." We estimate that the choice, such as they are given to economic operators, is made within the framework of the National Party, which makes it possible to have an equal position on the market, on the economic market or on the enterprise market. And if this law has ever been up to date, then this law is up to date today, when Slovenia is a full member of the European Union and when Slovenia is one of the official languages. Therefore, we do not see any need to prevent or make it difficult for individual economic operators to operate in that area because of the law, because of the capriciousness of certain Members and Members. In the National Party, we ask for your support, but above all, the economic operators in this area are asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much for further explanation. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the members of the groups and to the words of my colleague Srečko Friends, who will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. As a matter of fact, the proposed amendment of the law provides for the use of Slovenian language in the business of consumers as well as the use of the languages of the national communities. The policy is to provide conditions at all ends of Slovenia that will make life easier and better economic development easier. Many times, as a rule, at the end of mandates, everyone promises and provides conditions that will make life easier. If we think about what this law proposes, this law proposes actually greater competition either for trade or for companies living in the border zone. Indeed, the proposed amendments also seek to prevent any restriction of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms, namely the protection of competition and equality against the law, since this is not guaranteed today. We do not understand that the government and the labour force have found the only reason - here the opinion states that the government considers that the bill under consideration is not appropriate in terms of what the Constitutional Court has decided. See, the Constitutional Court stated that the Consumer Protection Act is inconsistent with the Constitution because it does not set deadlines for the acquisition of companies. Only administrative deficiencies that can be replaced at one of the following meetings. If the marriage - and I hope you will support it. It is true that in this national assembly we have already adopted laws that were inconsistent with the Constitution. In fact, you only remember the trade law and it's in force. It doesn't bother anyone, and other laws are, I wouldn't count them, they're huge. However, when we propose something that would make it easier to develop the economy, a better life in the border area, the government is saying that the law is not ready in its entirety, that it is preparing its solution, as always, so that they will submit their proposal in a short time, which is supposed to solve this issue in its entirety. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that in essence, although this law was supported only by minorities, it must be accepted, as this is dictated by the economic situation in the border areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Veršnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u20	Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for a law amending the consumer protection law was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of members of the Slovenian National Party with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. The proposal of the proposers is that the text of the first sentence of Article 2, paragraph 1, be amended. It now reads: "The company must operate with consumers in the Slovenian language, in an area where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live autonomously, as well as in the language of the national community." The amendment is proposed to amend the last part of the sentence so that the language of the national community can also be used in addition to the Slovenian language. By Decision 218/04-31 of 20.4.2006, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia finally ruled that the legislator acted in accordance with Article 15 of the Constitution and that it was not an infringement of the right to free economic initiative referred to in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ordered the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to set an appropriate transitional period for the adjustment of business operations. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that the proposed law is unnecessary and in terms of constitutionality irrelevant. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will propose its bill to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from all this that the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I now invite my colleague Horvath to present the position of the Social Democrats. I apologize, Mr Horvat, for letting my colleague Petk present the first position of the LDS Club. Again, accept your apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u22	Nice to meet you, fellows. Even if they let me go, it wouldn't be too bad, because we all think the same way. So, in the LDS House of Members, we will support the position of the parent labour body that there is no need to adopt a law amending and supplementing the consumer protection law. In doing so, we are also relying on the Constitutional Court's decision of 20.4.2006 relating to this legal substance, which is also the content of the proposed amendment to the Consumer Protection Act. By that decision, the Constitutional Court ruled that the first paragraph of Article 2 of the current law was not inconsistent with the Constitution. As explained by the Constitutional Court, the Constitution in Article 5, paragraph 1, provides, inter alia, that the State in its territory shall protect and ensure the rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities. However, Article 64 of the Constitution sets out the specific rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia. In regulating the specific situation and special rights of indigenous national communities, the legislator shall not be limited to the principle of equality, which prohibits any discrimination based on national or other circumstances laid down in Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitution when regulating human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Constitution allows the legislator to provide indigenous national communities and their members with special protection, as the consumer protection law has provided members of the national communities with a contested provision. Such conduct is also in line with international instruments, in particular with the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages, which contains in Article 13, the commitment of States Parties to the use of minority languages in the field of economic and social life, is relevant. The legislator, by providing that undertakings in the zones, because they live in indigenous national communities, should also operate with consumers in the language of the national community, act in accordance with the mandate provided for in Article 15(2) of the Constitution and therefore do not interfere with the right to free economic initiative referred to in Article 74, paragraph 1, which should be assessed by the Constitutional Court following a strict proportionality test, nor with non-compliance with that constitutional provision. For these reasons, we point out that the solution in the bill under consideration, whereby an enterprise in the business of consumers in areas where the Italian or Hungarian communities live autonomously, can also use the language of the national community in addition to the Slovenian language, means that the protection of the rights of indigenous national communities has already been achieved. Therefore, the LDS Club joins the opinion of the parent committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. And now, Commissioner Ferri Horvat, will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government, Dear Fellows and Fellows! Members and Members of the Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a decision by the home working body that the proposal for a law amending the Consumer Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Such a decision is in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Commission for National Communities and the opinions of the coastal self-government community of Italian nationality and of the Pomurje-Hungarian Self-Governmental National Community. Taking into account the opinions and arguments, the mother worked unanimously, with the exception of one vote from the representative of the proposers, adopted a proposal for a decision rejecting the proposal. It must be acknowledged that the issue is very topical, complex and sensitive. Instead of partial resolution, therefore, a comprehensive solution is needed for all open consumer business issues. According to our assessment, it is most appropriate for the government to prepare a new law on consumer protection as soon as possible and submit it to the National Assembly for consideration. The Constitutional Court has fixed a period of six months to eliminate the non-compliance of the Consumer Protection Act with the Constitution. This deadline has already run out to a considerable extent, so there is little time left for us to adopt a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you for the introduction. This is followed by a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Member Martin Mikolič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u26	Well-welcome, president, representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body that the proposed amendment of the consumer protection law is not suitable for further consideration. Let me say that we continued the consideration of the proposed novel on the basis of the initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Consumer Protection Act, after the Constitutional Court also ruled on the basis of the initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the first paragraph of the Consumer Protection Act. The initiative was launched by some companies operating with consumers in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live autonomously and the existing legislation requires them to operate in these areas also in the languages of these national communities. The Constitutional Court has informed us that this is not incompatible with the right to free economic initiative referred to in Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. Moreover, what we are reminded of by the legislative and legal service would be a reduction in the already achieved protection of the rights of indigenous national communities. It is true, however, that existing legislation imposes certain additional obligations on companies operating in areas where national communities live, which are certainly linked to additional operating costs. In the light of all these facts in the New Slovenia Group, we support the Government's proposal, which considers that the proposed amendment is inappropriate or unnecessary in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, nor does it make any progress towards resolving other open issues. It is therefore necessary to prepare a comprehensive solution to all these open questions concerning the provision of the existing law. The government has committed itself to preparing a new law on consumer protection within the time limit set by the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u27	Ambassador Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the law concerns the first paragraph of Article 2 of the current law, which also speaks of companies operating in the areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community. The draft law under consideration had already been tabled in 2004, but in the meantime an initiative had also been put before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality and legality of this paragraph. The Constitutional Court found in its decision that the said paragraph of the Consumer Protection Act was not inconsistent with the Constitution. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also considers that the proposal for a law is unnecessary and does not make any progress on open issues. The law is also opposed by the Commission of the National Assembly. The Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore sees no reason why we should amend the first paragraph of Article 2 of this Act in the proposed manner. Moreover, the proposed text thus does not solve anything, and what is very important is the reduction in the protection of the rights of indigenous national communities. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the Economic Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within the voting point, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, Short-term Procedure. I inform you that a total time of 40 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Dr. Mark Pavli. In this regard, the Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the applicants for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you again very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Nice greeting also to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! On the sidelines is Sisyphus Number 2, which is our proposal for amendments to the Defence Act. Why did we decide to make such a change? The first reason is that the changed circumstances necessarily lead to changes in the rules, and the fact is that circumstances have changed radically since the end of the cold war at the international scene. There has been an increase in the number of crisis hotspots, increasing terrorism, the plague of the 21st century, civil war and other forms of violence. Let me give you some numbers to prove it. In the history of the United Nations, 59 peacekeeping operations were established - this number includes 2005 - of which only 13 were at the height of the Cold War and the remaining 46 since 1988. Of course, it claims that Slovenia is responsible for world peace, especially after 2004, when it became a member of the European Union and NATO. However, Slovenia is so much more responsible for the safety of its citizens and citizens. And why would this responsibility for threats, even small threats, be left to the government. Why should the government not share this responsibility with the main branch of government, with the National Assembly, with Parliament? Already at the extraordinary meeting convened in the case of Iraq, we have called on the government to consider appropriate legislative changes, which, by the way, would also eliminate the possibility that in similar cases in the opposition we would call extraordinary meetings and waste all over again, spend valuable time discussing other legislative initiatives and proposals and other projects at that time. One of the arguments put forward by the Government is that such a change is not necessary and that it has also taken place in the case of Iraq for a similar decision, as in the case of Afghanistan, Congo, Darfur, for example, is to say that it has happened in the case of Afghanistan, Congo and Darfur for peace operations which have been given a mandate for the United Nations Security Council resolution. In the case of Iraq, however, it was a precedent for an attack on a sovereign state despite the opposition of the Security Council. Secretary Kofi Annan himself called such an attack illegal. Only later did the Security Council decide because it had no choice but to bless such an attack with great anguish and to give subsequent mandate to multinational forces. The government has also shown itself on many occasions, and I apologize for saying this out loud as a proposaler that there are no real strategies in this area. Minister Erjavec, who is unfortunately not among us here today, has changed his position on many occasions: from never sending an army to Iraq, to the fact that such a mission is entirely justified. Similarly, Foreign Minister Rupel. All of this points to the fact that it would really suggest that we consider supporting our proposal, that this is unrealistic, and again, if I may say in the terms'mythologically sizific', because we know that a two-thirds majority is needed, but I should point out that a two-thirds majority will also be needed when the Ministry of Defence or the Minister proposes changes to the defence law; without cooperation on such important national issues, it will not work. In its rejection opinion, the government argues that no member of NATO is so aware of the regime in which Parliament would decide on military missions. It just doesn't hold. Let me list only two countries: Germany would otherwise have decided in the case of the Congo to send soldiers and, of course, the soldiers opposed it and are still opposed. And Spain, as an example of the newest state which, precisely because of the co-responsibility of the main branch of power, has delegated decision-making powers to Parliament. Last but not least, the legislative and legal service has identified our proposal as being correct and systemically consistent. Thank you so much for your support. I still hope you'll object to the decision of the parental committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you, Dr. Pavlich. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the position or decision of the Defence Committee that the proposed law for further consideration is not appropriate. In view of the change in circumstances, the law's proponents believe that, in view of the exacerbation of violence in the world, the government should share its responsibility to send soldiers to other countries as well as to the National Assembly, namely, it is proposed that the National Assembly should give its consent to the government's decisions to send the Slovenian Armed Forces to foreign countries. Members of the DeSUS cannot support such proposed arrangements. The legislation now in force provides that the government, by its decisions, primarily fulfils the obligations assumed by the membership of the United Nations, the European Union and NATO. In the exercise of this mandate, however, the Government is exclusively concerned with the obligations that we are taking on within these international organisations. In the DeSUS Group, we also believe that the reason for the exacerbation of violence and the rapid change in the world's security conditions is in no way justified by the arrangements proposed, as all members of these organisations need to act as quickly as possible. The proposed solution does not in any way follow this objective. The fact is that, despite the professionalism of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, each mission carries a certain risk, and in the DeSUS Group we are convinced that the government is taking and will continue to make sound decisions, aware of their consequences and responsibilities. Members of the DeSUS believe that the current regulation of the Defence Act is an entirely appropriate basis for the fulfilment of the obligations that Slovenia, as a member of NATO, the United Nations and also as a member of the European Union, and that we will therefore support the decision of the home working body on the inappropriateness of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you for presenting your point of view. Ambassador Robert Hrovat will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have carefully examined the proposal for an initiative by opposition parties to amend the Defence Act, by which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is to give its consent to the decisions to send members of the Slovenian Armed Forces outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that such changes in laws would be of no benefit to anyone. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in whose jurisdiction such consents are given, is very successful in its decisions in fulfilling those obligations that have been assumed by becoming a member of the United Nations, the European Union and NATO. In decisions concerning the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad, the exercise of this mandate by the Government is solely for the obligations that we are taking under these international organisations and the current decision-making method is certainly the most operational and meaningful. This is due, in particular, to the rapid changes in the security situation in the world, when this also increases the responsibility of those organisations for action, which consequently requires the swiftest possible action by the members of these organisations, is also said by the Republic of Slovenia. Such action has been carried out in practice for more than ten years and has proved to be good and effective. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we find that the opposition has not mentioned any valid reasons for changing this practice. Last but not least, we can recall how the opposition was affected by their request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when four officers of our army were sent to NATO 'Training Mission Iraq' when the National Assembly decided by a majority of the votes that the Government's decision was entirely in place. More and more countries are also changing legislation in this area in the direction we have, which is proving to be the best solution at this point in time, since it is the most operational and professional. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, after a thorough examination of the draft law proposed by the opposition Members, is in no way in favour of it, in particular because the existing regime is appropriate and enables the effective implementation of the international obligations which our country assumes in international organisations, whose member is also provided with the appropriate role of the National Assembly. The current legislation adopted in 1994 stipulates that the decisions of the Government on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of obligations undertaken by international organisations are only the result of previous key decisions taken in the National Assembly. The current regime also ensures that the National Assembly is informed of the enforcement of its obligations, since the National Assembly is already deciding when obligations arise, i.e. the conclusion of international contracts and so on. The Government shall also inform it of any major decisions concerning the participation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the enforcement of international obligations. In all past years, the rule has been communicated to the Committee for Foreign Policy of the National Assembly, as well as to the Committee for the Defence of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the National Assembly already has an appropriate role to play in making such decisions in terms of taking previous key decisions and that only operationalisation should be carried out by the government. We will therefore vote against the amendment and support the decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you, you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Dr Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u36	A nice greeting to all present. Members of the LDS with first-signed Dr. Mark Pavliho, in cooperation with SD Members and at the initiative of the young Liberal Democracy, have tabled a amendment to the Defence Act concerning the sending of Slovenian soldiers to foreign countries. We have decided on the proposed changes after a decision has been taken by the Government without a wider consensus on the deployment of soldiers to Iraq. The current system, however, gives legitimacy and legitimacy to such decisions. The current regime, which has been in force for 10 years and at that time there has been no change initiative and since then the Slovenian Army has participated in 14 missions and the first complications have begun in sending troops to Iraq. This novel is in particular a response to the Government's irresponsible decision in the case of Iraq, and I suspect that in the future the government will be able to weigh all the circumstances and make the right decisions on this basis. Its decision in the case of Iraq is based solely on the villa declaration or on the interests of the United States. For the former government, both its involvement and its membership in NATO, never wanted to associate itself with unjustifiable, unjustified and flawed military intervention in Iraq. We have also proposed a novelty to avoid extraordinary sessions that could take place in any further deployment of soldiers, as in the case of Iraq, abroad, and therefore it would be appropriate for any such decision to obtain the consent of Members or representatives of all citizens and citizens, and thus the legislative authority to gain greater weight, so that it could use other and more appropriate instruments such as extraordinary meetings. The European Union is gradually increasingly involved in activities related to international security, so that more and more operations are planned outside its own area, and the number of UN peacekeeping operations has also increased at the end of the Cold War. This will certainly affect or already affect the increased role of the Republic of Slovenia in peacekeeping operations. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans to further increase the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in peacekeeping operations, including the deployment of soldiers of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, both within the framework of EU operations as well as, for example, Congo, as well as within NATO. In view of the security situation in today's global world, as the number of crisis hotspots is increasing, it is necessary to amend the law according to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should obtain the consent of the National Assembly for such decisions. The most important acquisition of the Institute of Consent of the National Assembly will certainly be a preliminary debate, which would certainly be welcome in individual cases of participation in peace operations. Although Slovenia is indeed responsible for world peace, first of all it is necessary to ensure the safety of our citizens. Because reckless decisions can directly or directly endanger the lives of soldiers participating in missions, as well as the lives of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia operating in crisis areas [[Journalists, humanitarian workers and others in this context]] Indirectly because of the concern for the health and life of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at home and abroad, we must not ignore the importance and danger of possible terrorist attacks. The proposal is also supported by a number of similar arrangements in other developed Western European countries, such as Germany, Norway, Denmark and so on. Finally, I would just like to say that, given that amendments to the Defence Act need a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members and Members present, it is the view of the motioners that such support is unrealistic at present, but we note that a two-thirds majority will also be needed by the government when proposing any of their laws. We therefore propose to conclude a compromise, which will not only be in the interests of the government but for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats Group, we do not support the proposal for a decision by the Home Committee that the novel is not suitable for further consideration. This is a surprising decision, which has no tangible and rational arguments or, forgive me, has one that is misleading, and this is what the Minister said on the Defence Committee that the citizens decided at the referendum that we should send soldiers abroad to the military hotspots if this is the decision of the NATO Summit. And it is the government that the people in the referendum have entrusted with carrying out this obligation. Typical fiction, even more typical manipulation. However we interpret things, the security issues at our home and on foreign issues of our cooperation in the fight against terrorism, the battle to stabilise the world situation, the fulfilment of the obligations we have as a member of NATO and the European Union in the field of security, and so on. However, it must be stressed that these issues are also extremely sensitive to the general public, not only to politics, not only to the government, not only to government parties, i.e. to coalitions, but also to the wider political consensus, including the opposition. Therefore, in the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group, it is right that this function should be performed by Parliament and not by the Government. The signatories to this proposal do not propose anything that would take over the powers and functions of the executive branch of power, but we are convinced that the decision to send soldiers to the military hotspots is an eminent political issue and therefore it is right to be raised by Parliament and the way in which the enforcement is still in the domain of the executive branch. Therefore, it is not any problematic solution that would weaken Slovenia's status as responsible and active members of NATO and the European Union, as many times as the opponents of this proposal can say. Finally, the coalition has a sufficient majority in this House, which will, with its votes for government decisions, ensure that Slovenia remains a credible and faithful partner in these associations. It is therefore necessary to reject the Government's argument that the government does not support this amendment of the law, because the government, by its decisions, primarily fulfils the obligations assumed by becoming a member of NATO or of the European Union. First of all, this obligation was accepted by the citizens at the referendum and verified by the national assembly and not by the government. And secondly, only NATO membership does not require acceptance of everything that is decided by Nate's summit. Each Member may, at its own discretion, assess its own decisions regarding the participation in missions and the deployment of soldiers to the hotspots. There is a sovereign right here, and solutions and definitions in different Member States are also different. They are the most eminent members of NATO, such as non-Iraq, and they are the new members of the European Union and NATO, who are in Iraq. So far away from the truth is the claim that NATO’s membership alone also means binding decisions. So this is a proposal that means that the government's decision is reviewed and confirmed by Parliament and the responsibility is extended. This would also avoid that, in such cases, Members meet at extraordinary meetings, whether recognised or not, and that is what some of you have expressed today in the debate, dialogue and conclusions at such meetings have a completely different connotation than if this is the content of a regular parliamentary procedure. Last but not least, because it is an aspect of greater security and not just specific soldiers and material consequences, it is right to inform the general public about this. Once again, the decision of Slovenia's participation in NATO has been taken by people and the result of this decision is fair treatment of these people. So that there is nothing to hide from them, there is no need for it, nor is there any war secret. And that is why the rejection of government and coalition is incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word. A warm welcome to the representative of the Government, Members and Members of the National Assembly. Today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on defence, which was tabled by a group of MPs with the first-signed Dr Mark Pavli. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not believe that a change of law is necessary. It is true that the situation in the world has changed in recent times, that new hotspots are emerging, that there is a new danger of an increase in the risk of terrorism. It is also true that Slovenia has been a member of the European Union for two years and also of NATO. We have stepped in or thus have collective security, and we are contributing our share to this security ourselves. We are aware that every mission is subject to a possible accident, including an accident perhaps, but God forbid, to a human sacrifice. I think Iraq was the one who encouraged the role of this law in the National Assembly. However, I must say that every mission is dangerous, and our soldiers in Kosovo or Bosnia and Herzegovina are also at great risk. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that and that the government will act prudently and responsibly on sending our soldiers to foreign countries. We are convinced that the current legislation is quite appropriate, so we will support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President, representative of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that an effective strategy for defence and participation in peacekeeping missions is an important element of statehood, which is also evidenced by provisions in the Constitution. We agree with the Government's view that the existing regime is appropriate and allows for the effective implementation of the international obligations assumed by the State in international organisations whose Member is, in its view, also the appropriate role of the National Assembly. The international treaties are ratified by the National Assembly. Slovenia, by including an international link as a member of the European Union and as a member of NATO, must also fulfil its obligations as a serious partner in the Alliance for Peace. The involvement of Slovenia in peace missions, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, contributes to ensuring the creation of an area of peace and stability in our area, thus fulfilling the provisions of the Constitution. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must be responsible for the proper action and conduct. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. And the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by the winner, Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u44	Nice hello to you all! Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which tabled this bill with the assistance of the United List or the Social Democrats, was very excited to join NATO. At the time she worked and did everything for Slovenia to enter this club, as shown by the fig in her pocket. The fact is, as long as we join NATO, we need to stick to their proposals and their terms and conditions and to what this Charter on the Establishment of NATO commits. The Slovenian national party has kept reminding us of a lot of things that are not right, and one of these is also the one that we have before us today. In short, now that our gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy have suddenly become afraid of what was already good and excellent for them all of a time. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian National Party, because it is the government that decides to send and send the Slovenian Army to foreign countries. The undeniable fact is that we have a professional army. In short, those who decided to be soldiers also made their decision to make something happen to them because it was a professional risk. Even the bus driver knows that in a car accident he may have a lot going on, he may even die, and yet he is a bus driver. So is a soldier-soldier. And if someone is a soldier, he must take risks and obey orders. In this case, the government gives the order. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already granted permission to the government to accept such orders when we voted on whether or not to join NATO. I think that this law is essentially about collecting one political point, when the Liberal Democracy would like to show again how I don't know any peacekeepers, peace institute organizers, peace demonstrations, wearing posters here, left, right, top and pink ribbons and flags around the arms and around the heads. I think it's high time for these gentlemen to put on a mirror and tell them that you spoke differently yesterday, you speak differently today. Yesterday you spoke that way because it was an occasion for you and it was politically beneficial for you, today you are speaking quite the opposite for the same reason, because you feel that it is politically appropriate for you. I think that laws like this are, in fact, completely unproductive and are essentially a waste of time in the National Assembly and, above all, a waste of sand in the eyes. On the one hand, however, it is understandable. Many gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy have never served the military, so not only do they not know what the army is, but I think that many people don't even know where the bullet is coming from. In short, I think it is pointless to discuss such laws at all, and the Slovenian National Party will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENTAL LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. I would like to inform you that there is also a 40-minute debate to be held at this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Janko Webro. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft law. Ambassador Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good bye to all of you! We have tabled a proposal for a law to supplement the Law on Forests mainly because we want to provide more funds to municipalities to maintain local roads and roads and provide more resources to maintain forest roads. The reason why we decided to do so is because the forest law so far stipulates that fees for the maintenance of forest roads are collected in municipal budgets and that the law on the financing of municipalities provides that this is the income of the municipalities. And the congregation cannot have these resources alone, for it is a purposeful receipt that must be earmarked for maintenance of forest roads. As a result, all those municipalities receiving financial compensation are disadvantaged, as they invest in forest roads from their own income, instead of investing in the maintenance of local roads and roads for which they are also legally responsible and competent. The solution ahead of us, of course, also has financial implications, namely that fees are collected annually at an amount of 398 million and 900 000 tolars, which are indicated monthly on the basis of advances to municipalities and at the end of the year by the Ministry of Finance as to whether or not they were realised at the estimated level. And then, at the end of the financial year, a government decision is also issued, which then takes due account of these data. In so far as additional financial obligations are concerned, the Government and the Ministry of Finance already have the legal possibility, in accordance with the Public Finance Act and in accordance with the Community Financing Act, to provide additional funds without any additional legal or other amendments. In short, at the end of the financial year, the government will be able to determine how much financial compensation belongs to individual municipalities and how much of its own revenue has been realised in this regard. We therefore expect that this law, regardless of the fact that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food did not support it at its meeting, will, however, experience support in the National Assembly, because, last but not least, it has been supported by the Committee on Agriculture and Food in the State Council and by the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and, finally, by the Council of State, supported this law. All those who have supported this law are aware of the very big problem in the area of local roads and also in the area of maintenance of forest roads, and they have, of course, supported this change. But this is another fact that turned out to be true this winter. In fact, the winter was extremely long, extremely severe, with very large financial consequences, both in the implementation of the winter service and now in this spring and summer times, when the effects of the winter on local roads need to be addressed. The municipalities find that they do not have enough resources. The Transport Committee of the National Assembly has also given an initiative to the Government to draw up a law to provide additional resources, both to municipalities and to state roads managers. The Government's position is that it will not provide additional resources, so today's law is an additional argument that the National Assembly supports this provision and allows at least municipalities to partially or to some extent repair the very severely damaged local roads. So, last but not least, the natural consequences are those who say that the National Assembly supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you for further explanation of the bill. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Maria Pozsonec will present you cancel. [[...]] Ambassador Bojan Rugelj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The first-signed Mr Janko Weber, with a group of Members and Members, drew attention to the problem of the financing of local communities by means of this proposal of the Law on the Complementation of the Law on Forests, and in no case could it be addressed in such a way by the proposed amendment of the Law on Forests. This non-systematicity has also been pointed out by the legislative service. The fact that the government of Janez Janša is aware of the problem of financing local communities has already been clearly demonstrated by the fact that the appropriate consumption of municipalities increased by 10% in 2005 compared to 2004 and then by 3.8% in 2006, which represents the first tangible shift in local community funding in the history of local self-government in Slovenia since 1.1.1995. Therefore, in the SDS Group of Members, the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not support such a partial solution to the problem of forest roads, especially because we believe that funding should also be regulated in the sense that more contributions should be made to these roads by those who actually use them most. Since the problem needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, the proposed amendment group does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues. We do not support the LDS's proposal for a working body, because we believe that the quality and sufficient maintenance of forest roads for Slovenia as one of the most forested forest European countries is extremely important. This is even more important in rural development, and especially in many small Slovenian municipalities, I am not talking about the positive effects of good roads on tourism, sport and recreation. We are pleased that the problem at the committee meeting has been recognized as a serious and needed solution, so it seems rather strange to put it back on to some other, better times, perhaps the reason for rejecting it, even an inappropriate or improper candidate, which has been happening recently in this national assembly. We also attach support to some Slovenian municipalities and to the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to the support of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber that the problem needs a solution. Novevo provides municipalities with additional necessary budgetary resources for the most urgent rehabilitation of forest roads, which is particularly typical and pronounced this year, when the consequences of the severe winter still plague us. On the other hand, we also point out that congregations should be autonomous in the distribution of their incomes, which, of course, would allow this law to continue from now on. So far, it's not that kind of practice. For example, in solving the problem of forest roads on the one hand, prisoners are often forced to cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Institute of Forests. For the congregation acquires additional means for the purpose of rebuilding roads only when it itself devotes all the funds it has been earmarked for this purpose from its own budget. In the LDS, we also disagree with the government, which rejects the law for reasons of the new financial consequences. We are of the opinion that if something needs to be fixed so that no more damage is done, it is necessary to do so immediately and forest roads such as these are no doubt necessary repairs, as in most cases we will drive taxpayers with our cars on these bad roads, not with expensive eight-wheel armors, which will significantly empty the budget more than forest roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you. Janko Weber will present the position of the European Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, I would like to draw attention to some very important facts that can only enlighten the content and influence the decision of Members and Members to decide whether or not this law will receive support in the National Assembly. One of the arguments that we must certainly take into account when we are talking primarily about financial consequences is that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has a profit in its operations of over 500 million tolars. This profit is largely created by state forest concessions and should also be channelled into the state budget, so the government has a resource that can fully cover the obligations arising from this law. On the other hand, we note that a number of laws have already been adopted in the current legislative practice, which have allowed certain revenues to be disregarded as municipal revenues and only some to be listed. It is a special fee for the use of slot machines outside casinos and for compensation for the change in agricultural land and forests - these two have been abolished - and for concession fees from the adaptation of special gambling and tourist fees. Both taxes are not taken into account as the income of the municipalities and have all those municipalities where the tourist tax is generated, so more resources are available for the development of their environment. All those municipalities that have many forests, of course, have a very large financial obligation in their own income and are deprived of it to carry out their own development. A solution that would not affect the provision of additional resources for development to such municipalities is also enshrined in the Environmental Protection Act. This environmental law is also an exception and has a similar content to the forest law that we are proposing today. In fact, Article 49 of the Environmental Protection Act states in paragraph 6 that the Government may provide that part of the concession fee belonging to the State is not taken into account in the calculation of the municipality's own revenue under the rules on the financing of municipalities, so the government still has, on the basis of its own proposal in the Environmental Protection Act, the exact same mechanism for providing additional funds to the municipalities as proposed by the group of Members who have tabled this Law on Forests. It is not a matter of any deviation from legislative practice, but rather of confirming the rule on how such problems of community funding need to be resolved and, of course, we can fully reject the argument that waiting for all solutions does not work and that some things need to be resolved faster and more effectively with such proposals as they are here today. So, unless I expect the Government to adopt, as soon as possible, sub-legislative rules allowing municipalities to draw on funds, namely, payments for concessions belonging to the municipality and, of course, these funds are not taken into account in this concession in their own resources. In these cases, we just want to reinforce the solution, which is also enshrined in the Forest Act, and we expect, of course, that the rest of the council or parliamentary groups will listen to these arguments and support this law, because it is an emancipated legislative practice, and above all, it is an opportunity to immediately help municipalities to rehabilitate and maintain local roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. The position of Nova Slovenije will be presented by colleague Sok. Excuse me. We've been informed that Martin Mikolič will do this, I'm asking you to get back together for a second time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your word. Mr. President-in-Office. So on this letter we received, I am written in such a way that I do not know whether, on behalf of New Slovenia, I should say more about the magnetogram than anything else, that we will not support this law, it is said, we support the decision of the parent committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Otherwise, we understand that the purpose of the applicant proposing that fees for forest roads should be excluded from the calculation of appropriate consumption and that municipalities should receive greater financial compensation and use this greater financial compensation to rehabilitate local roads, so that thinking is good, but this solution is not part of the forest law. The Law on Forests does not speak of roads, but of other matters. This is part of the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, and if we change the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, then it will be possible to repeat this idea by making it more complex. For if a congregation has many forests, it has no more roads than, say, another congregation, which does not have so many forests. Thus, the road problem for local self-government is one of the main issues and key problems for most rural communities, so that this issue will have to be cleared up from several perspectives. On this occasion, however, let me say that it is likely to be necessary for forest roads to be financed alone to see whether there is any other source to be obtained here, in New Slovenia we mean the source from the sale of wood. The Court of Auditors, in its report on the 2003 and 2004 Fund for Agricultural Lands, recorded and concluded that the concession contracts signed by the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture with concessionaires in 1998 and 1999 were recorded and signed in such a way that today forest economies, which are participating companies, can sell wood assortments past public auctions, are directly said to be. And the Court of Auditors finds that there is damage to state property through this. Why the former government coalition allowed such contracts to be concluded is another issue. It will be necessary to see whether there is no concession fee currently available for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia around 400 million Slovenian tolars, which is extremely small for almost one million cubic metres of sold wood, or whether it is not possible to increase such concessional resources and then also for the purpose for which the proposer proposed this law with only two articles and thus wished to draw attention to the problem of the rehabilitation of local roads. So, the time for this debate will still be in the future, but today, as I said in the introduction, we do not support this law in New Slovenia or in other words, we will support the conclusion of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group should be presented to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for this law, the Law supplementing the Law on Forests, seeks to ensure that the fee for maintenance of forest roads would not be taken into account in the calculation of the municipality's own revenue under the rules on the financing of municipalities and that the fees in the budget of the municipalities would prove to be an assigned revenue. The first and second paragraphs of Article 49 of the Law on Forests provide that forest owners shall pay a fee for maintenance of forest roads and that the fee shall be the revenue of the local community budget. The purpose of spending resources is further defined by a tripartite contract concluded annually by municipalities, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forestry Institute. Article 22 of the Law on the financing of municipalities provides that the revenue of the municipality is to finance spending, that revenue is also to be charged. Forest maintenance forest owners collect around SIT 490 million per year as fees, and the country contributes an additional amount of SIT 260 million annually, which means that it is cca for maintenance. 12 thousand 600 kilometres of forest roads, totaling only 750 million, representing the poor 60 thousand per kilometer of forest road. By means of these means, however, it is certainly not possible to adequately patch or maintain forest roads. For this reason, more or more resources should be provided from different sources to maintain forest roads, as they do not only serve forest management, but also serve in many cases other needs such as access to farms, the need to develop tourism and recreation, thus contributing further to rural development. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we believe that, despite the above, the purpose of this law cannot be achieved by the applicant's proposal. In our view, it is essential to amend Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities in order to achieve the proposed purpose. In this way, the municipality could obtain slightly more resources, but this would, of course, also mean a greater burden for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and to this end it must somehow be defined by the purpose of the government. From this title, the Slovenian People's Party's Group does not support or support the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u57	The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! This amendment of the Law on Forests would provide municipalities with additional budgetary resources for the most urgent rehabilitation of damaged forest roads. However, as we understand from the debate, the law will not have sufficient support in the national assembly. Of course, we would all agree, and we would also like to see customers who are in fact very close to these places where these people live in affected environments and no one would support a good proposal. This is really incomprehensible to me. Of course, we will not oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. The proposal seeks to achieve, by means of a novelty, that the municipality is autonomous in the distribution of its revenues, which is the right thing to do; that it can use them for a certain consumption and remedy the inadequacy and the actual damage caused by the winter on forest roads, which we also estimate is right. Today, however, no one has stressed what is also important that the forests are also owned by the Church, more and more of them. Yeah, how much does the Church give to maintain these roads? Is it possible to know how much money is missing is willing to contribute to the Church? 400 million collects from fees, something draws the state. 790 million, according to our calculations, is far too small to be able to maintain these forest paths properly. And when we talk about how some thing could still move from a dead point, we run into the fact that the government doesn't want to give money to rebuild forest roads, because it seems a shame to give it money, and it says that it doesn't matter either for the development of the forestry industry and for tourism activities - in short, by established custom, it is preparing its proposal, which will, of course, completely solve this problem. It is also interesting that on the working body, the President himself, before any serious debate, wanted to put an end to all discussions on this and force a negative decision to be put to the vote. Of course, municipalities need more money, more resources to maintain local and forest routes, so in the Slovenian National Party, we assess the proposal of the proposers as positive and do not intend to oppose them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Peacemaking and Disability Insurance Act, Summary Procedure. The scheduled time for discussion is 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u60	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance is necessary and requires short-term adoption, as the deadline for the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament has already expired on 23 September 2005. In Slovenian legislation, most of the requirements of the Directive have already been transposed by applicable laws governing pension and disability insurance, insurance and investment funds and management companies. Only those parts of the Directive which have not yet been regulated by the current legislation are subject to this amendment to the Slovenian legal order in the manner laid down in this Directive. The main purpose of the directive is to strengthen the internal market in financial services and also to ensure effective supervision of individual providers of occupational pensions. In accordance with these objectives, the main objectives of the amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act are: firstly, to ensure that members are better informed about their insurance information; secondly, by providing precise provisions on the content of the investment policy statement, to ensure adequate investment decisions by operators duly controlled by the supervisory authority; and thirdly, to enable cross-border operation of pension plan operators from individual Member States. With amendments to the law, with a view to pursuing these objectives, a more precise regime of investment policy is proposed to allow for uniform and more control over the management of pension funds and to increase the security and transparency of these assets. The biggest innovation brought by the proposal for a law is certainly the regulation of cross-border cooperation or the operation of pension plan operators from individual Member States, which means that each pensioner has the right to carry out a pension plan in any other Member State without the establishment of a branch. When setting up a pension plan in another Member State, contractors are committed to fully comply with the provisions of the labour and social legislation of the host country, that is, the Member State in which the pension plan is implemented. The news presented by the proposal for a new law is both for the benefit of the insurers and pension planners. Security personnel shall be provided with regular and substantive information regarding their insurance and the funds saved over which they are subject to continuous supervision. On the other hand, the proposal for a new law opens an important path for pension planners to foreign markets, which offers the opportunity to acquire new clients and experience, while at the same time it is possible to have foreign contractors in our home, which will certainly be a challenge and healthy competition. At the time of the creation of the bill, a number of interviews and coordination were held, and it was also coordinated with the Economic and Social Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you, you. The draft law was considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and disabled persons as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your word. A nice welcome to Mrs State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour as a department for the subject matter of this bill. This is the Committee of the National Labour, Family and Social Affairs Assembly, and the disabled were dealt with at the 6th ordinary meeting on 7.6.2006. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister of Magi participated in the work of the Committee. In principle, the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the Directors of the Directorate for Labour Relations. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the legislative and legal service which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, which also made specific comments to a few articles. The members of the committee were also informed of the written opinion of the State Council Committee on Social Activities, which concludes that the proposal supports the law. No amendments were tabled within the time limit for the draft law. Members and members of the committee have become familiar with the initial purpose of the law, as we have just heard on the plenary, so I will not repeat it. In view of the technicality of the nature of this law, there was no specific debate on the Committee, and in the context of the debate a question was raised which agency would be the one carrying out the insurance supervision of the supplementary pension insurance. Somehow it was not possible to answer this question in any particular way. In the light of the legislative and legal opinion, the Committee has also adopted several amendments as its amendments, namely Articles 1, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 16, and thus has been supplemented by the proposal for a law with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Bojan Rugelj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you, Chairman. It's a nice greeting to all of you who listen. It's not a lot of us in here, it's a magnetogram, just like my predecessor said it would be. The novelty of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance shall, in the Slovenian legal order, transpose the requirements of Directive 2003/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions in the work relating to information to insured persons, a statement on investment policy, the own capital of operators, the principles of investment policy and cross-border activities of operators within the framework of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we therefore welcome and support this more precise regime of investment policy, as the amendment of the law seeks to ensure greater control over the management of funds from individual pension plans, thereby enhancing transparency and security of business with these funds. With the proposed solution, operators will, in addition to the current notification, annually inform the insurer of the state of the individual pension fund, the target amount of the expected retirement pension and any substantial changes to the pension plan. It is right to increase informationism, as many changes in pension and disability insurance, especially among those who are slowly considering retirement, are fuelled by many uncertainties. The second major amendment concerns the extension of the scope of pension scheme operators which allows Slovenian operators to carry out additional pension insurance activities in another Member State of the European Union. Operators from other Member States of the European Union who carry out at least one supplementary pension scheme in the home Member State shall have the right to carry out business with collective supplementary pension insurance in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but with this insurer to take into account the provisions of the pension and disability insurance law when establishing the pension plan, and must also be approved by the Minister responsible for the work. The Slovenian Democratic Party also welcomes the solution that the management of the pension plan must take into account the provisions on guaranteed profitability, transfers of funds, voluntary supplementary insurance rights, the obligation to notify insured persons and the restrictions on investment, which also apply to operators from other Member States under this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also welcome the maximum allowable exposure by type of investment and to individual and specific individuals more precisely the determination of the separation of pension fund assets and the separation of investments in securities. Let me finish. The new law is in line with the directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support the amendment of this law on pension and disability insurance due to all the positive changes it brings. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you for giving me your opinion. The position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Milan M. Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We will support the law on amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance in the Liberal Democracy Chamber because it is in fact about the introduction of a directive which Slovenia coordinated at the time of its entry into the EU and which is known to have already been introduced into Slovenia's legal order until September. It is important that this Directive, in particular in the area of supplementary voluntary insurance, does, however, extend the market to operators of pension schemes doing so in Slovenia to other EU countries, as it does to the wider market or allows other operators from Member States, namely those who have at least one pension plan in their home Member State to have the right to carry out business now in Slovenia. This will undoubtedly increase competition in the area of supplementary pension insurance. This competition should lead to greater correct and more informed information on the part of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time having more opportunities, gathering between individual pension plans. It therefore surprises us that the government had to receive as many as two reminders from the EU in order to propose, after a reduced procedure, an amendment to this law. We think that this is a bad practice, a bad practice because on the one hand we do not take advantage of what the European Directive allows, and this is the timely implementation of certain legislation at European level into domestic law and bad practice because then in the national assembly after a reduced procedure, without being able to have a wider discussion with either the operators or other partners, we also accept it. It is interesting that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs interprets in April this year as a delay in coordination on the Economic and Social Council, that it is a delay in coordination with the government's legislative service. I have a feeling that the government has been coordinating within itself for a long time, rather than proceeding in the National Assembly itself. Therefore, at the conclusion of this presentation of the positions of the Member Club, we will support the law, and we ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take full account of the sovereignty of the National Assembly in the legislative process and to allow such important matters, matters concerning all citizens and citizens, but to deal with them on a regular basis, as the government could have done if it had planned its work more appropriately. It is not, however, that we are almost forced to adopt legislation in some way in the National Assembly after a reduced procedure because the government has long coordinated within itself or with some of the less important, of course also important partners, such as the State Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Miran Potrč will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance is a kind of technical law. It is intended to implement certain European directives in the Slovenian legal order, primarily affecting the area of supplementary pension insurance introduced by the 1999 pension reform. The purpose of this insurance is to encourage the additional saving of employees in order to ensure sufficient income at the age. Because of the poor demographic trends in our country, pensions from the so-called first pillar will probably not provide adequate social security for most of the younger employees in a few decades. Therefore, the additional pension insurance and all the possibilities that it is expanding are extremely important and right because, by stressing the result achieved in the previous mandate, including with the assistance of the Government and then Dr Bohinca’s Council, it has been achieved that an important part of the funds earmarked for salary increases has been made available to the public administration for additional pension insurance and that, in fact, we are now all officials and all those employed in the public sector, additionally insured and those with fewer working days will receive an essential share of the additional pension. The proposed law brings new news in the area of supplementary pension insurance. In the first place, it is a matter of liberalisation on the market of additional insurance providers, as after the new insurance in Slovenia they will also be able to offer operators from other countries, which is positive. On the other hand, the Slovenian providers of supplementary pension insurance will also be allowed to offer supplementary pension insurance services in the other Member States of the European Union in the same way. From the point of view of insurers in the event of an increase in the number and thus competition, the most important innovation is the obligation of the operator to inform them of the state of the individual pension fund, the target amount of the expected retirement pension and any substantial changes to the pension plan. As greater information also means greater security, we support this change of law in the Socialist Group of Members. We also point out that this law could already be adopted, that the amended directives have been present for a long time, and that, even with previous amendments and amendments to the law, they could be incorporated into the law and that the bad practice of this government is to require sudden changes, although even less important, following reduced and urgent procedures with solely its own fault, because it does not propose in due time that laws be adopted. With this remark, we will support the proposed amendment by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, as it is a law resulting not only from the obligations of our membership in the European Union, but rather from improvements in the competition of providers of supplementary pension insurance, greater information for insurers and thus a greater possibility of supplementary pension insurance for all our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Martin Mikolič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! The amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance means in particular the implementation of Directive 2003/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the activity and supervision of institutions for occupational and pension insurance in our legal order. The main purpose of the directive is to strengthen the internal market in financial services and in particular to ensure effective supervision of individual providers of occupational and pension insurance. As a result, a more precise regime of investment policy and greater control over the management of funds from individual pension plans and increased transparency and security of operations with these funds are proposed. At the same time, greater information is provided to insured persons, as the system also operates across borders and imposes a certain obligation on the home country. An operator from another Member State may start doing business when he receives a notification from the supervisory authority of the home Member State of the applicable legislation in the field of supplementary pension and disability insurance in force in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Exceptionally, the operator may engage in operations where the supervisory authority of the home Member State has not expressly prohibited it or has not sent it a notification from the previous sentence within five months after the authorisation request has been made. In our parliamentary group, we expected that, along with these additions, the problem of pensioners, Slovenian citizens who were employed in neighbouring countries will also be addressed. We regret that some of the parties to the coalition have not accepted the proposals put forward by the Government to address this problem. Indeed, today, as a Member from an area where the majority of these people live, I can rightly ask whether it would not be better to accept the compromise proposed by the Government in a more appropriate manner. For the first time since the decade of agony, this government or ministry has proposed a proposal to mitigate the differences between pensioners employed in the Republic of Croatia and Slovenian pensioners. Now, dear colleagues, we all ask ourselves together what will benefit these people if we coordinate it for several years, despite the fact that this solution will be the most favourable or ideal for these people, but if we know that in 1995 these people were 5,000. Now there are only a few more than 1,000, and unfortunately the others are no longer among us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance is a kind of technical harmonisation of the existing law in the supplementary pension insurance segment or in the part included in our pension scheme as an investment pillar with the Directive of the European Union. The primary change relates to the supervision of individual operators in the sense of informing insurers of the investment policy of the implementation of the pension plan. Moreover, this amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act also regulates, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy and the European Directive, the cross-border functioning of pension scheme providers, supplementary pension insurance in any of the members of the European Union, which we welcome and certainly is good. This will certainly mean greater competition or competition in the supply and indirectly also an increase in the investment part of pension savings in our system. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the bill. At the same time, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out some urgent interventions into the pension-disability law, which were originally also the subject of this bill, with a new proposal for amendments to the law as soon as possible. In doing so, I am thinking mainly of the issues related to Slovenian citizens who receive pensions in the republics, in the countries or countries of the former republics of the SFRJ. And in doing so, I want to say what is the forerunner of principles. It is true that the Slovenian People's Party, as a coalition partner, objected to a solution brought by the government or the Ministry, which discriminates against these citizens. And we take full responsibility also if this has not yet been resolved, but honestly, it is right that it has not been resolved, these are equal citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who pay taxes as all citizens, and are entitled to an equal treatment of public funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia that are not subject to the basic elements of the pension system. And we will also insist on this with the novelty that we are expecting as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group is followed. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you. Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, as well as the amendments of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because we are convinced that this proposal is properly implemented by the European Directive. All these positive issues dictate acceptability with regard to market expansion. Such an action will increase the competitiveness of the pension insurance market. Thus, Members of the DeSUS believe that this law is good, and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item or at the latest at 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution of Penal Sanctions, Summary Procedure. I would like to inform you that a total of 40 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! The amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions proposed by this amendment relate to five rounded areas of regulation. First time. With regard to the implementation of the Witness Protection Act, which will apply on 1 July this year, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions should also allow for the proper treatment of protected persons on the grounds of imprisonment, juvenile imprisonment or educational measures. In particular, it is a matter of determining the procedures for the cooperation of prison administrations with the Unit for the Protection of Hazardous Persons. Another time. It is more appropriate to pay for the medical care of convicts at the end of their sentence. So far, payments have been made to the actual extent, and now the medical care of convicts is included in the general health care system. Third time. Given the specificities of the work of the guards, the working hours of the guards are more appropriately defined on the basis of the possibility provided for in the Labour Relations Act. Fourth time. More effective enforcement of the driving ban penalty will be enabled by the use of modern information technology to register issued driving licences. Thus, it will no longer be possible to avoid the execution of this penalty, as the applicable regulation provides that the penalty shall be entered in the driver's licence for which the person must bring it to the competent authority. And a fifth. With regard to criminal provisions laying down offences, it is proposed to comply with the later adopted law on offences. Since there are minor changes to the law and the harmonisation of the law with other laws later adopted, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the bill be adopted in a simplified manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye! At its 21st session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The representative of the applicant explained in detail the objectives and objectives of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law in the introduction. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also took part in the meeting and said that all comments made by this service were taken into account in the proposals and amendments tabled by the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS. The draft law was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council on the political system from which the Commission supports the proposal. The members and members of the committee on the draft law were not specifically discussed. However, amendments to the proposed law were tabled, as stated, on the basis and in accordance with the comments of the legislative and legal service which were also adopted. At the end, the Committee also adopted all the articles of the law together and prepared a complementary proposal, which is also contained in the report received by reference to this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I ask the representatives of the Liberal Democracy whether they will present their position. [[No, no, ……]] Then we continue with you, Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to introduce or introduce us to the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u80	The Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions governs the enforcement of penalties, protective and educational measures imposed in proceedings, offences or other proceedings. Today, the law is being amended mainly to adapt to sectoral legislation. Amendments shall be adapted to the regulation, as introduced by the Witness Protection Act in practice, where, for example, a person, a so-called scapegoat, who is threatened or already protected by testimony in criminal proceedings, is in custody or on sentence. This will mean that the administrations of the detention facilities will also have to cooperate closely with the witness protection unit and take into account the decisions of the Commission to protect persons at risk. The institutions will have to provide maximum protection to the vulnerable, they will have to ensure separation from other convicts, the security of the relocation of convicts, and they will also have to participate in the production of individual treatments. These provisions will also apply mutatis mutandis to juvenile prisons and protected minors. Further changes include convictions in the general health network, allow for the distribution of working time by guards, as is most appropriate for ensuring smooth work according to the specificity of the individual institution and the criminal provisions are aligned with the law on offences. I should mention a change in the procedure for the execution of a motor vehicle penalty, which will no longer need to be entered in the driving licence, but will be entered in the register of issued driving licences. Electronic processing will thus allow for the up-to-dateness of the prohibition itself and also prevent possible abuses that have occurred in practice. The same will be done when such a penalty is imposed in the case of a foreign national. Due to these and other changes made by changes and additions to the law, we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions refers to minor amendments or compliances with other provisions. Nevertheless, some changes are necessary and also important. The amendment of the law thus regulates the protection of those persons who continue to be held in prison, juvenile prison, or against whom educational measures have been imposed and are, at the same time, protected under the Witness Protection Act. Cooperation with the Commission and the Unit for the Protection of Hazardous Persons shall be regulated. In addition, the proposal for a law regulates the inclusion of convicts in the general health network. In this regard, the Health Insurance Assembly has adopted the relevant decisions and a change of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is necessary to enforce them, and the law is therefore welcome in any case in this Title. The law also regulates the working time of the guards, amends the procedure for the execution of penalties, prohibits motor vehicles and coordinates terminology with the last amendment of the offence law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you. The position of the Group will be presented by Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! This time we have an interesting law proposed by the government. The law was confirmed without discussion on the working body of the mother. Since we are also constructive, we will also confirm it, because, as we have already heard, there are some positive views dealt with by the law, it also brings for the convicts who have come to the side of the protected convicts in the hearing process positive things, but we are most pleased that a major step towards rationalisation has been taken in health care. The medical care of convicts is new. So far, it has been provided with contracts signed by each administration, and from now on it is likely to be included in the general health network. It also allows for a better and more rational allocation of working time in institutions, which means that workers will no longer have to work full-time, so there will no longer be any need for overtime as has been the practice so far. As it is said, the law on the working body did not have a special debate or it was confirmed without discussion and is put into a rapid procedure. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented or presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. He's not here. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Member Dimitrij Kovačič. He's not here. We have also concluded with this presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote, after the end of the 21st item of the agenda or at the latest at 4:40 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 21. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety of Road Law. I would like to inform you that three hours and 35 minutes have been scheduled for discussion. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, with the first-signed Aleš Gulic, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Minister Mate, welcome and welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would also like to apologize to Minister Bozič, who would have otherwise presented this law, because, as you probably know, the power of this law has recently come into play in his field, but we have been the proposers of this law to the three substantive ministers, and that is why today I will also present the starting points and proposals that the government has drawn up. The proposed amendment to the Road Safety Act allows and amends the areas of registration and technical checks and driving licences and the issue of public transport safety. It is proposed to amend the time dynamics for carrying out technical inspections of vehicles by making the first technical inspection of vehicles, such as passenger cars, four years after the first registration, and then every two years for vehicles not exceeding 8 years of age. The proposed amendments also relate to the dynamics of carrying out technical inspections of light trailers, trailers, trailers for the transport of motor boats, water scooters and other preparations for sport and leisure. It is proposed that the first technical review be carried out four years after the purchase or first registration and then every four years thereafter. We believe that these changes and professional bases will in no way endanger any safety in road transport. It is important that the amendment of the law does not interfere with the dynamics of carrying out technical inspections of so-called risk groups of vehicles, vehicles which are widely and continuously used in traffic, such as public passenger transport vehicles, the transport of dangerous goods and vehicles with an advantage or escort vehicle and all buses. The removal of bureaucratic obstacles in the regulations is the removal of a two-year period within which the holders of foreign driving licences had to replace foreign driving licences for Slovenian driving licences. The two-year period is justified as the category of drivers applying for the replacement of driving licences must in any event also carry out a test of the practical part of the driving licence before the competent commission or examination centre in the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore there is no need to limit this matter. At the same time, in line with the proposed amendment to the practical part of the driving licence, it is not necessary to carry out such examinations to foreign nationals who have evidence of such examinations being carried out in one of the members of the European Union. The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council of the Republic of Slovenia will continue its work under the Ministry of Transport following this proposal, ensuring the full continuity of its work. The tasks relating to the beginner’s driver’s programmes and safe driving exercises will be the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister Mate. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act is surprisingly superficially prepared, which should certainly not be the case if we are talking about road safety. This superficiality would be justified by the fact that there was no expert debate on the basis of which an appropriate legal proposal could then be drawn up which would take into account all the data we have at our disposal in Slovenia in order to prepare a quality road safety law. It is incorrect to interfere with road safety by prolonging registration or the first technical review to four years and to justify reducing administrative barriers. If we are talking about administrative obstacles, of course it is necessary to see whether anything is not appropriate in this process and it is also necessary to correct it accordingly. However, if we reduce the number of inspections, we are directly interfering with security and do not reduce any administrative barriers. These obstacles can only be reduced by means of a proposal, which has been made in this law and that you are used to extend the validity of a marketing authorisation through an electronic service, i.e. by electronic mail, the law provides for the extension of the validity of a marketing authorisation, which, of course, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats, is not necessary to amend the law, as it is possible to introduce and implement it today. The solution to the failure to set up a public road safety agency is also very questionable in terms of rationalising the functioning of the state administration. Indeed, the current law provides for the establishment of a public road safety agency which would, of course, assume the tasks of the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council. The proposal provides for the allocation of tasks to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior. This division, of course, means that the road traffic prevention and training world will be divided both by staff and by content, and we can expect that tomorrow we will have very serious difficulties in how the world's extremely high competence for prevention and road transport provision in two separate institutions will be. It is already clear to us today that when we deal with the law or any other issue related to the resolution, for example, and where there is a need to harmonise more of each other, there are very serious problems, how and at what level some solution can be agreed between the individual resources. In addition, it is extremely important that, above all, road safety and education is dealt with by an institution which is largely independent and can then propose to individual departments that these proposals are, of course, included in their solutions and in their tasks. On the contrary, after this solution, we will not have an institution that can offer a single proposal to someone to try to take into account important proposals to increase road safety in their solutions. This is therefore an extremely inappropriate approach to the road safety law, and we can also justify such an approach in no way in Europe, and I think that Slovenia, as a new member of the European Union, should transfer its good practice in road safety to other Member States and, of course, complement its solutions with experience in those Member States that achieve extremely high safety in road transport. This law follows a completely different logic. It takes account of those countries that did not have regulatory technical checks until 1990, but did so in a way free without any obligation. And after these we try to serve in this law to a greater extent than those countries that have this area almost to the point of precision processed and distributed. However, this is an extremely important area, as the consequences of transport security are mainly evident, even unfortunately, in the number of deaths in transport and are also reflected in the social and financial consequences both for families and for the individual country and also for society as a whole. Therefore, in this law, the Social Democrats would really want a thorough preliminary debate and such arguments would then include a change of law. Indeed, the law on road safety cannot be adopted on the basis of an advisable reduction of bureaucratic barriers, and especially if this is linked to the frequency of technical proposals or inspections. Here I would also like to add that the Ministry of the Interior has not, in fact, collected statistics on the number of vehicles with a failed technical inspection for the last three years and the number and type of errors and shortcomings identified which have led to the failure of the technical review. So for the past three years, we have not systematically monitored the key data for the drafting of the road safety law. However, it is also a fact that the occurrence of accidents is largely affected by the exact state of the vehicle, which reduces technical infallibility by the year of use and by the number of kilometres transported, and thus increases the likelihood that such or other traffic accidents will occur. And if we add to this the fact that we are lagging behind in Slovenia in the adoption of the resolution of the national programme for the construction and integration of other state roads, that is to say, we are implementing the modernisation and construction of motorways, which has also significantly affected transport security, and we have not even started talking in the national programme for the construction and integration of other state roads. However, the fact is that the situation on state roads is extremely critical, the fact is that the situation on local roads is also extremely critical, and the fact is that, finally, one of the boards of the National Assembly has already identified that we will not provide additional funds for local roads and forest roads when amending the forest law. So it's a big and important breakthrough. On the one hand, we extend the period of technical inspections and thus increase the likelihood of less technical vehicle integrity; on the other hand, we do not solve the situation on state and local roads in such a way that these roads can take on ever more powerful and faster vehicles. And this breakthrough will certainly lead to reduced traffic safety in Slovenia. This is, last but not least, contrary to the guidelines of the European Union, which has set itself an important task of reducing the number of deaths, namely road accidents in the European Union, and thus saves enormously, extremely much. The presentation of savings in a way that, once the period for carrying out the technical review has been extended, is indeed a pleasant solution, which is also sought in this law to "sold" to citizens and citizens. On the other hand, they are forced into situations where they will certainly find themselves in extremely difficult situations, when they will either be involved in a traffic accident or feel the indirect consequences of these accidents. So an extremely sensitive issue that we obviously do not solve comprehensively enough. And I believe that, while we are also significantly affected by the establishment or non-establishment of a public road safety agency, we are also in the field of expertise in which, to date, a very systematic and analytical approach has been made to the tasks that have been carried out and then proposed to individual departments for further processing. If we list all the effects that will affect it on the basis of the text adopted today, as proposed, in the Social Democracy, we consider that this law is not suitable for further consideration and that it needs to be examined very thoroughly before further consideration, in particular in view of the consequences of reducing the technical integrity of vehicles, the consequences of the failure to resolve the timely rehabilitation of state and local roads, the consequences of the separation of the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council from that covered by the Ministry of Transport or the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Home Affairs. This also applies in particular to the training of young drivers who are actually faced with a very large issue, with very strong vehicles on bad roads and, in the future, even fewer technically flawed vehicles in extremely difficult circumstances. So, as I have said, we will not support this law and expect to continue, particularly the professional debate on road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you. Ambassador Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that road safety is an extremely responsible task for the legislator. It is human life, which is priceless, but of course it is also calculated, but enormous, material damage. The legislator is responsible, unfortunately, for the daily warning of the dead on our roads, so the amendment to the Road Safety Act is also an opportunity to think thoroughly about what to legislate in order to increase road safety. Without much analysis, we find that a person or so - called human factor is responsible for safety or, better, danger on the road. The behaviour of the average Slovenian driver is also characterized by many negative characteristics, such as intolerance, obsessiveness, egoism, when driving behind the wheel, is a side activity and the primary telephone regulation of business, reservation of vacation, chatting with friends, friend or friend, not to tell us how we are always in a hurry, because we do not know how to calculate and take time to travel from point a to point b on the ground; and it is true that then people take their own life and other life. Nervousness, which is often accompanied by Slovenian drivers, is also the result of the transition that the Slovenian society at the transition to another social system you do not want to stop. Here I am referring to the numerous bankruptcys of companies that were not able to restructure quickly enough and consequently the loss of jobs and the associated many family traumas or traumas of individuals. I would like to say that the behaviour of the average Slovenian driver reflects the state of the spirit in Slovenian society, and in the New Slovenia Group we are convinced that more content is needed in the Slovenian educational system, including respect for all participants in transport, tolerance and tolerance, respect for laws, even if they are restrictive and are marked "stop" not only on the road, but also elsewhere, but in particular responsibility in terms of the sanctity of the own and the lives of others. We support the Government's efforts to implement the Anti-Burocratic Programme in terms of simplifying the procedures for registration of motor vehicles and reducing the costs that the vehicle owner must pay for the technical inspection of vehicles carried out. In this context, we support the possibility of using an online application, e-renewal of the validity of a marketing authorisation when it is not necessary for a vehicle to carry out a technical examination, which is one of the conditions for the renewal of the marketing authorisation. This is a cost-and-time issue, since there are no official hours in the online application, savings that citizens will certainly accept with approval, similar to the abolition of truly unhappy stickers. The law introduces new dynamics in the conduct of technical inspections, so that the first technical inspection of the vehicle is carried out 4 years after the first registration, and then every two years for vehicles not older than 8 years of age, as opposed to the applicable regulation, which provides that the first technical inspection for those vehicles shall take place 3 years after the first registration and then every two years to 7 years after the date of registration of the vehicle. A vehicle over 7 years of age shall be subject to a technical inspection every year. The proposed amendments also relate to the dynamics of carrying out technical inspections for light trailers, for which it is proposed that the first technical inspection be carried out 4 years after purchase by the first final buyer and then every 4 years thereafter. Under the current regime, they are required to carry out the first technical review three years after the purchase by the first final buyer and then every three years thereafter. There may be evidence of negligible savings of citizens using an online application and different dynamics of the required technical reviews, but in Nova Slovenija we believe a proven Slovenian proverb that says: Tolar na tolar - palača. If I can update it a little bit: Cent per cent - euro. Even if every Slovenian citizen saves an average of one euro, as shown by the arithmetic calculations concerning this amendment of the law, we have only done something for the citizens. The system will gradually allow full online automation of procedures, including the renewal of insurance and the conclusion of new insurance, so that we offer citizens a comprehensive friendly solution that will facilitate their operations with the country and raise the level of satisfaction with public administration. And what are the technical inspections in Slovenia? We have excellent authorized services, as well as poor authorised services, but we have to admit that. This means that they cannot be completely trusted. This is shown by data from the "test fan" used last year by the Auto Moto Association of Slovenia. On 53 different brands services, 76 vehicles under 5 years of age and with a maximum of 90,000 kilometres were checked and tested. On 39.5% of vehicles, repairers did not detect and, of course, did not correct all technical errors. On 19 vehicles, that's a quarter of the sample, they missed the failures on the brake systems. No failures were detected on a fifth of vehicles on the chassis, at almost a third of the lamps and at each 8 vehicles on the exhaust systems. In the New Slovenia Group, we stress the responsibility of the vehicle owner for the technical integrity or safety of the road vehicle. The vehicle owner or the driver must respond to the messages provided by the control system in the vehicle while the driver himself is best tested during the driving of the vehicle and, on the basis of the errors detected, must react to any of the components of the vehicle, otherwise acting irresponsibly to his own safety as well as to the safety of others. The bill assesses that the proposed extended time interval during technical inspections of vehicles does not directly affect the safety of participants involved in road transport, as it is stipulated for all vehicles in road transport that they must have flawed facilities and equipment and comply with the prescribed environmental protection conditions. However, we are pleased in New Slovenia that the proposed amendment does not affect the dynamics of carrying out technical inspections, so-called risk groups of vehicles and other vehicles, which must carry out technical checks at least once a year. According to the accident statistics, technical errors or deficiencies of vehicles do not appear to be a major cause of accidents, and we also assess that the proposed amendment to Article 211 will not affect traffic safety. Of course, traffic safety is still affected by the density of traffic, especially freight, which is far above road capacity, is said in those cases where it exceeds road capacity. From this city I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay full attention to solving the acute problem of freight traffic on G1-3 Lendava-Maribor road, this is already a well-known chorus. I am pleased that the government has listened attentively to the Committee of the National Transport Assembly and has allocated 5.7 billion dollars for rehabilitation in the wake of the weather. At the same time, I call on the government and the company Dars to make sure that the plan for the construction of Slovenian motorways is actually being adopted in the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the proposal for a law sent to the National Assembly is suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you. Ambassador Franz Kangler is expected to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, please. But I'm asking you to give me a heads-up the next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been told they've arranged it, but thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the bill in question from one simple point of view as a red thread accompanying this law in the title of the civilisation of the public sector, of course, through the fundamental objective of reducing budget or public funds. This is certainly good, and let us welcome this when this is not the case, if nothing else, with the safety of individual citizens and citizens and in particular the safety of road users. Therefore, we certainly accept as welcome the entry into force of new technologies in terms of the electronic possibility of extending the validity of a marketing authorisation, the same as the replacement of driving licences, but in particular I will stop at the time of the entry of the applicants in Article 211. Let me not be offended by the proposalers, but the basic message of this Article is for those who have been working professionally for at least their time on the technical integrity of vehicles and connections, a service around this being a slightly populist approach to citizens and citizens or owners and users of road transport vehicles. It is true that for a period of time, users and owners may pay a little less, but it is a negligible money for every life that may be extinguished. I would not like someone to say that we want to defend a company or institutions that carry out technical inspections and other interventions to the technical integrity of vehicles. But there were unfinished approaches when we introduced a technical inspection of a vehicle older than 12 years of age for 6 months. That was one extreme. But one who knows the range of our vehicles on the roads will be able to say, "Of course that car that has a purchase value of 10 million or more needs nothing for six years." You know, more or less than 6 years nothing, 5 years nothing, the one that costs two million and a million eight hundred, and the one who buys this car is profitable or its wages more or less such that more and less expensive service services are not even used to maintain the vehicle, even oil exchange has become a real rarity, and these people are also driving relatively far away, on long relationships to work and in a lot of traffic congestion, which all affects the technical integrity of the vehicle. Therefore, the extension of the technical review, which costs 4,000 SITs, then to an older vehicle over four years after the present proposal is a completely destructive approach for anyone who knows what the technical integrity of a road safety vehicle means. We, in the House of Commons, do not approve of this, of course, that the reduction of the current resolution in Article 211 would be against, but this approach, I am firmly convinced, is bad and here, at this point say "the owner, the vehicle user is the most tested vehicle", my dears, when you press the brakes and get carried away, it is too late for you to realize the condition of your vehicle. So I'm literally surprised that the creators of this amendment to Article 211 do not deepen into the evident state of the structure of motor vehicles or road vehicles after a technical, valuable moment. Or say so, everyone will accept it nicely: "I should go to a technical checkup this year, but I don't have to, and I'm going to go next year." But it'll be too late for a lot of people next year. I myself have already personally influenced colleagues in the parliamentary group that this approach is bad. But worst of all, it would be ascribed to me that I somehow advocate authorised services, as my predecessor once said, performing technical checks that can do good or bad. That's not true. All these services have the same technology, one and the same measurement, one and the same indication of a condition of the most demanding components on the vehicle affecting driving safety. And in addition, we have inspection, which is specifically responsible for carrying out a careful and thorough inspection of the state of these apparatus, which are often those who can somehow direct a person to danger. We are sorry, and in the second reading, we will try to arrange this amendment, but I think that the proposaler should take a good look at his approach to this issue and leave things in my opinion, but in our opinion, we may have to further increase the control of operators, authorised services, so that it cannot be said, in this place, but we have the good ones on this speaker, and we have the less good ones. However, a few of us are still on the run in view of the obvious assessment that the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia has acted well for those involved and that its actions have been good, from the smallest, younger participants in transport to those who are now preparing for inclusion in this road spinner in mature years. It may be a well-thought approach, but if this approach is again only for rationalisation, for the concept of government rationalisation of public administration, we need to ask ourselves whether, as a result, any poorer service, less prevention, we should ignore those few million at the annual level. This escapes us a little, but the law and approach of the proposer is mainly by entering the road safety system through new technology; thus we enter and thereby increase and reduce the time spent by the owners and users of road vehicles with our cavalry, as well as by reducing public funds, but in this case not by public means to reduce when it comes to the life and safety of road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u94	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the law is not as bad as some of you want to show it, and it is not as good as the government wants to show it, especially in the context of that small electronic "e". The fact is that the primary and main culprit for car accidents will remain the same for motor vehicle accidents after the adoption of this law as it was before the adoption of this law, which is a human factor. We know that motor vehicle technology is changing from year to year, so it is for this purpose that we welcome the decision to extend the period of non-physical registration of motor vehicles, i.e. the transfer from three to four years. As far as the highly-sung or displayed opportunities to shorten procedures in connection with e-registration are concerned, we know that this will not be the case. A lot of times, or what's modern, is that we've always heard too many times lately that this e-technology makes things available to us, on our hands, to do it, and suddenly we have all the documents. I'm afraid that's not the case. The one who calculated the necessary ways to carry out the e-registration could see that there was quite something done here and that it would probably still be easier to do it the old way we used to do it. The fact is that the so-called e-services are not always as high-quality in practice as they are trying to be shown by those who serve with these e-services, whether it be the executive branch of the authorities, in the form of the promotion of their policy, or those who manage this software. I will only list a few basic steps and later, of course, everyone will decide for themselves whether to use them or choose the old path. The facts are as follows. The administrative unit shall issue a marketing authorisation to the post office with a fever. The mailman wishes to deliver a document at the customer's permanent residence, the customers are not at home in the morning, and the mailman leaves a message on the receipt of the document during the official hours at the prescribed post office. The possibility of a lift is after a new Saturday, which means that the customer goes to the post office to take over the new document in an additional 8 days, then, of course, waits for it if it is not good and does not respect the law, taking over this law. [[?!]] , the old man must be returned to the administrative unit within 15 days and if he does not return it, he has a fine of 50,000 Slovenian tolars. In a very simple way, and I chose only the most basic steps, it can be understood that this so-called e-registration is not as credible, as commendable as it has been shown to us. On the other hand, I also said that in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we cannot agree with those who in any way stress that this law will reduce road safety. That's not true either. According to our assessment, the law is at first reading, if we adopt the law in the first reading after the general discussion, it is entirely possible to amend everything. It can be complemented in both the area being built by representatives and in the area being built by other representatives. From this address in the National Party to this Act today, we will not prevent a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. It is up to Mr Yelen to present his position on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you. Respectable. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act, which has been drafted jointly by three ministries, namely transport, home affairs, public administration, and that is why we will support it. The proposal introduces four major amendments, namely the technical review, the extension of the marketing authorisation through the World Council, the replacement of foreign driving licences for Slovenia and the abolition of the public road safety agency. The first technical inspection of the motor vehicle under the proposed provision should take place four years after the first registration and not more than three years after the date of registration and then every two years for vehicles not over 8 years of age. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposed time delay in the technical checks will not affect the safety of road users. In view of the relatively new and complex modern vehicle standards, we believe that the first technical review carried out in the first four years is still sufficient to ensure the safety of road users. In addition, a provision still exists that requires vehicles to have faultless devices and equipment and must comply with environmental protection conditions, as well as a provision authorising police officers to determine an extraordinary technical inspection in the event of suspicion that the vehicle is not technically flawless. Members of the DeSUS welcome the proposed simplification of the procedures for motor vehicle owners, which removes the bureaucratic obstacle, as the proposal introduces the renewal of the marketing authorisation via online services. In any event, such regulation will achieve a great deal of savings in time and way for both citizens and legal persons. Such a system will, according to our assessment, also allow for the full online automation of procedures, i.e. the renewal of insurance and the conclusion of new insurance. The proposed amendment of the law also removes a two-year period for persons residing in Slovenia to replace foreign driving licences for Slovenia and also removes the requirement to carry out the theoretical work of the examination, of course provided that the driving licence has been issued in accordance with European Union standards. However, there is still a provision that the foreign driving licence is limited to one year from the acquisition of the licence. We agree with the suspension of the additional practical part of the driving test when replacing the foreign driving licence for professional bus drivers and freight motor vehicles. Given that such a driver is also represented by a profession and given the training and examination carried out to obtain national qualifications in one of the countries of the European Union, we therefore consider that such termination is meaningful. The news presented by the proposal is also the abolition of a public road safety agency that has not actually come to light. The current law provides for the abolition of the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council and the establishment of a public agency instead. On the basis of the analysis, the Government found that the cost of the Agency's operation would be too high and therefore proposes that the Agency's planned tasks be redeployed mainly within the Ministry of Transport and that part of the tasks should be taken over by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Members of the DeSUS believe that the novel offers friendly solutions that will make it easier for citizens to do business with the country, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We certainly put security first in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Human lives are priceless, irreparable, and everything has to be subordinated to doing the best we can to avoid endangering them. However, we believe that the proposed changes proposed by the Government are without prejudice to transport safety, but I am primarily referring to the amendment to Article 211, which is why we will not oppose these changes. We welcome, however, the changes aimed at implementing the anti-biocratic programme in terms of simplifying the procedures for the registration of motor vehicles and reducing the costs that the vehicle owner must pay for the technical inspection of vehicles carried out. These amendments are in particular an extension of validity, which may be effected by a party via an online extension without the use of a digital certificate, only by specifying the number of the marketing authorisation. According to the applicant's assessment, there could be around 240 000 users of these services at annual level, which is by no means a negligible number. It is true that some may have some concerns about this way, perhaps they are not learning how to use modern information tools, or perhaps they have other reservations. For those there is still the possibility of an old classical way. The second, however, is the amendment already mentioned in Article 211, which would change the dynamics of carrying out technical checks after the change, so that vehicles referred to in the second paragraph of Article 211 are subject to the first technical inspection of the vehicle 4 years after the first registration, and then every two years for vehicles not over 8 years of age, as opposed to the applicable regulation which provides that the first technical inspection of the vehicles concerned shall be carried out three years after the first registration and then every two years to 7 years of age. When the vehicle is older than 7 years of age, the technical inspection shall be carried out each year. In our opinion, as far as vehicle manufacturing is concerned, there has been considerable progress in the recent period. Vehicles are much better assembled, better materials are used, and all analyses show that the technical failure of vehicles has a virtually insignificant place among the causes of accidents. We are therefore convinced that this extension from three to four years should not affect transport safety. The proposed amendments also relate to the dynamics of carrying out technical inspections for light trailers, for which it is proposed that the first technical inspection be carried out 4 years after purchase by the first final buyer and then every four years thereafter. However, under the current regime, it is stipulated that the first technical review shall take place three years after the purchase by the first final buyer and then every three years thereafter. We also support the delegation of tasks carried out by the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council to the Ministry of Transport in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. These tasks relating to the coordination of the national road safety programme, prevention, education, road transport education and analytical research tasks to be carried out by the public agency, which should have just begun operation in 2007, shall be carried over to the Ministry of Transport by means of a proposed amendment to the law. The tasks relating to the implementation of safe driving training programmes and group workshops, which form part of an additional training programme for beginners and are foreseen for the tasks of the public agency, shall be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior by means of the proposed amendment. We believe that with the proposed transfer of tasks to the ministries and not to the public agency, as provided for by the law currently in force, the applicant fulfils the objective of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after rationalisation throughout the public sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that these changes, as I mentioned before, will not have a negative impact on road safety. Taking into account that changes simplify the procedures for registration of motor vehicles and at the same time reduce the costs and time spent by drivers, while also allowing for a more rational functioning of these institutions, we think that the effects of these changes are positive and we will support them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The latter will present the position of the LDS, Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u100	Dear Presidents, esteemed guests, colleagues and colleagues, as many of you as are still here. We will not support the proposed law or amendments in the Liberal Democracy Chamber for a number of reasons. In fact, I will focus only on the one talking about the abolition of the road safety and prevention world, because it seems to us to be the key and most important. Of course, we have concerns about another matter, let's say 211th, because we know that it is not only about the quality, the production of vehicles has improved significantly in recent years, and that, of course, the Slovenian driving park has been repaired in different ways in its own time, but we know, on the other hand, that daily migration has also increased significantly, that, above all, state roads are not so high-quality that they do not spoil vehicles. So what we got with the quality of vehicles, with new oils and with, I don't know as much as we've heard, but of course it has deteriorated significantly because of the higher frequency of traffic, the higher frequency, the higher quantity of daily migration and, of course, the poor roads. Those of us who drive to work every day know this very well. You know that the gravity of Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Kopra has become so strong that it now reaches not only 20 kilometers to the surrounding area, but up to 100 kilometers there. And this is significantly different and also a worse burden for vehicles and drivers. But I said I'd talk more about the world of prevention. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the abolition of the public agency, and thus the world for prevention and security in transport, is not considered and that it is some kind of official wisdom. We doubt that those at the Ministry of Transport will be sufficiently qualified and trained to carry out preventive transport actions in the light of the tasks performed so far by the Ministry. We believe that they lack knowledge of road prevention and of research on road safety. In Slovenia, the state of traffic safety has improved since 1994, if we look at the data, every year. Yet, there are still two to three times as many victims in our country as in the most developed countries that are exemplary. The consequences of these accidents are not only irreplaceable loss of life and permanent consequences of injury, but they also cause considerable social damage, which amounts to about 64 billion tolars per year, but also have other side social consequences that are not so measurable. The latest comparisons of Slovenian transport safety with the European Union countries by characteristics, according to the indicators of passenger and transport safety of participants in transport, show that the mortality of the population of Slovenia in traffic accidents is more than once greater than the mortality of residents in the European Union countries. However, the level of injury accidents in road transport is more than 40% higher than the level of injury accidents in the European Union countries. I am therefore surprised by the Government's decision to amend the law on the safety of this road task, which has been carried out so far by the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council, as well as other civil organisations, in the future, to transfer this to the Ministry of Transport and to the Ministry of Interior or to the police. The part concerning coordination, the implementation of the national road safety programme, prevention, education, road transport education and these analytical research tasks is on the road, and what is involved in the safe driving exercise programme and the group workshops, which are part of the additional driver programme, is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. If you are interested in how civil organisations do this, you can say this Sunday afternoon there in Šiška to look at the range, there are motorist activists of Slovenia working there, and you will see. There are also very often police involved and things are pleasant, informative, have great credibility, including the trust of all those involved, is very large, the system is introduced, a considerable part of it is voluntary, nor does it burden me not know who. Now all of this will be concentrated, supported, and the question of how the response will be, at least for a while, will certainly be significantly worse. You know, it's not always "variatio directa", but "variatio" brings mainly mistrust. Of course, I want to know how all these people who are about to get this in their new hands are going to take over the past work since 1954, or at least since 1972, when the world for prevention was actually set up. I really want to know how this can be summed up as quickly as possible, prepared to make it work as it should. How will the actions First ride, Baby in the car, Lumpier's safe trip to school, Baby biker, Bistro head guard helmet, Start of school year, Safety for everyone, Be careful, Safe bike, What do you know about traffic, Week of traffic safety, With head to party, Youth to be joy, Without faulty vehicle-safe vehicle, Speed kills, We drive smart, Day without car, How to travel better. These are actions, such as those that have been handled well, which have been waiting for some time. Now, of course, they're going to move on to the other hands, and everything will have to be reorganised and reinvented. On the other hand, this patchwork, this "flict" of this law does not bring about those things that I think would be good to introduce, let's say, what refresher courses for drivers. We know that the traffic situation and knowledge must be changed and complemented. In doing so, no one really hopes that drivers would have refresher courses every ten years to extend their driving licence or anything like that. I'm not talking about re-examinations. We're on the clear side. But, you know, it's not just the proverb that John learns that John knows. Also, the proverb that John learns does not even remember that. Just go take a look at these driving test textbooks yourself, try to make some kind of pole, and you'll see how you don't know anything anymore, how strange, new and unusual everything is. If the majority of accidents were sometimes believed to occur there for 30 kilometers around the home, this was due to the fact that people had not traveled any longer and rarely had anything happened to them. Today, these distances have increased. Traffic situations are now completely different and you can't always think of driving, not in your own places anymore, because things are changing faster, just as things are getting faster in life. And that's why I think it would be good to have, before it's fixed, a rag of some old marriage, sit down, think more, say more, find some other arguments, not just to look at some quasi rationalization, but also, of course, at some populist stuff. Although I do not consider electronic registration to be exactly a populist matter, it is okay if, although it could be made much less complicated. Whoever wants to have it, and it is also that we go this way and that these administrative tasks that we have citizens, however, get done at a time that we call a digital period. But, of course, this can't be the reason that we're going to do something fast and in half. I think that the Road Traffic Prevention and Safety Council must become an agency in order to be independent, to be clear, to also more easily absorb initiatives from civil society from other initiatives. It is not good, for the first time, to move into the country, it is said that it is in some way sustaining itself, but even worse it is that it is being vaccinated, it breaks into the jurisdiction of two ministries, because it will cause a lot of good that has been done so far to be lost. The numbers on traffic accidents are telling us that from 1994 to this year things have been improving, but now, I think last year and this year things are already standing, nothing is getting better, nothing is getting better. If this organizational scheme collapses before new ones begin to run, time will be lost and lives will be lost again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. All those present who deserve all the praise, please inform their colleagues and colleagues who do not wish to discuss this in due time, because it will only make it possible to work faster and more effectively. Otherwise, I invite you to the word of Mr Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to make a few words myself to state that the proposed changes will have a negative impact on security. Again, we are talking about Article 211: it was said that the changes were prepared superficially or that there were no professional arguments and discussions. I don't think so myself. Also, the extension of the deadline for the first technical review from three to four years has not just taken place from the air. First of all, I would like to say that such arrangements are in full compliance with Directive 96/96 of the European Community, which allows for such a period. Second. In some other European countries, they have the same or similar arrangement, so we are not alone. Ireland, for example, has its first review after four years, France, Italy, Belgium, Spain. And these are not some strange European countries, but countries that have a strong development of transport and also a long tradition in this area, and I believe that they have also decided to take such a step after a thorough reflection and on the basis of some strong arguments. Next thing you know, vehicles are changing. If we once, when we were still driving the south, and we did 50,000 kilometers without a general, it was a real feat. Today, when technology has advanced so much, when we have much better materials, 200,000 or 300,000 kilometers is nothing special. I am therefore convinced that such a change will not affect security, but will actually be more friendly to people, less burdened by the need for this technical review every two or three years. The time in modern life is diminishing and any abandonment of unnecessary actions, activities are certainly welcome. However, I am convinced that the implementation of this law has much more impact than such a change could have on security. There's a problem. If people, the drivers respected this law, if even the culture of driving in Slovenia was better, then I am sure there would be a lot less traffic accidents on our roads. Even the worst, with the fatalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. He would have touched two points on his own. I'm just gonna start with technical integrity. The current law provides for a first review after three years. This decision was certainly based on the warranty age that most car manufacturers give for most of the most important technical units or for the whole vehicle. True, maybe four years is fine, but not five for some vehicles. For some vehicles, it would certainly be wise to check more thoroughly after two years to see if they are okay, or if it suggests that there is already a preventive replacement. Certainly, the law cannot take this into account individually and must be written for one general average. And if, as I said before, most manufacturers estimate that during the first three years the vehicle users can drive safely, then this indicates in some way taking into account even more if we also take into account our specifications and the situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Here I mean the situation on the roads, their state in terms not only of safety, but also of how they are particularly scattered after this winter and generally what driving surfaces look like in Slovenia. If you drive a car most of the time along a nice smooth highway, it can certainly be much less damaging than driving on roads, such as, unfortunately, in Slovenia we often have: full holes, caves and consequently expose cars to many unexpected, shock pits and injuries that we would not otherwise have. It is not only about compliance with the directives, but we must certainly take into account the objective facts and the specifics we have in Slovenia in this area. I estimate that this is primarily about a populist move and not just about abandoning some unnecessary activities. However, it will certainly be well accepted by users to extend this deadline, and I hope that this will not lead to significant and, above all, such disasters as would be tragic for anyone. But the other thing is, of course, the world for prevention and training in road transport. After this proposal, we see that from a non-governmental organisation that has been preparing the programmes itself, according to the situation in your road transport, according to the specificity in the Republic of Slovenia and also the highest level of risk among young people, among other categories of road users, that now from one government organisation, which, by the way, also from the budget, has been making a very large share of its funds in other ways from private sources, we are now making them dry-cleaning officials. Why did I point out the drylands? On the one hand, we are certainly reducing the initiative of the employees there and their own creativity, their own initiatives, because we know that new officials will have their hands substantially, substantially more committed and will be limited to many bureaucratic obstacles that they have not now. On the other hand, it is of course an issue of their continued funding, as they will now be within the Ministry of Transport and we know that there are, of course, other priorities, especially in the construction of road infrastructure. In doing so, I fear, it will be forgotten that prevention is essential, significantly more useful and important than any curate. It is with these activities that they have now done the most successfully in the world. I would also like to know how the government will pursue the goal of reducing the number of employees in the state administration if we are now moving one of those who have not been in the state administration. It will be difficult to follow the projected reduction objective. This isn't just about the administrative difference. Yeah, because these people have been busy so far, we're not gonna hire them anymore. Maybe. There is no guarantee exactly because of this unnecessary bureaucracy that will happen. But it's also a way of financing them so far. As I said before, they will now be in the budget, and so far they have also obtained a large share of the funds from other sources and have not been burdening our budget. That's why I'm afraid it's a new form of sustaining, sustaining everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We do not just go wild on the roads, but apparently also on the list of debaters, because it is already Mr Veršnik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I really didn't expect it to be this fast. We're actually talking today, I'll say something about the right thing. We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Road Safety Act. The proposal before us is aimed in the right direction, reducing bureaucracy and also reducing costs for citizens and citizens. The Slovenians train park is completely comparable to the rolling stock in other European countries. With all due respect to my respected colleague Brenčič, who cited some arguments against, I must say, when I looked at the material, they have an even more liberalised system in Ireland, France, Italy, Spain. The system proposed here in this proposal is completely comparable to Denmark. Certainly, these countries did not just take a decision to heart, but they carefully monitored the situation in this area and decided what they were doing. We also have before us our proposal, which I think is perfectly in the right direction. The proposal shall extend the first registration from the third to the fourth year and thereafter to every two years. Very acceptable and fully oriented towards the future, I believe that today some respected colleagues do not master electronic mechanisms, as they should be able to register within the meaning of the proposal. But I am sure that our children will use these forms in a mass way and that this will save them time. But time knows how precious it is today, and it will be even more precious. I can say that I am convinced that such changes in laws are desirable and are not reckless, but are somehow in the trend of what is also happening in the area where we are counting and we are also members of this community. I wish this law all good and I am sure that many citizens, citizens and citizens will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it. That wasn't a debate. There's no Rules of Procedure, I know, but no, it's not possible. [[...]] It can only be a replica of a misinterpreted debate. I'm sorry. No, you didn't discuss it. You're not on the list. Yes, but it wasn't a debate, it was a presentation of the position. I'm sorry, it's the rules of procedure. And I give my word to Mr. Ljubeljski.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Representative of the Government, Honourable Fellows. I will probably not say anything new, which has not already been heard at this point, but I think it is right that I should also say my opinion on this proposal. In opening, I would like to point out that security comes first for me as well. There's no doubt about that. All we have to do is be real and live. We can't look at fears where they probably don't exist. I support this bill myself, and I will only say it in two ways. First of all, because I think the billmaker knows what he's proposing. And I am sure that on the basis of data, based on statistics in traffic accidents and on the causes of traffic accidents, he has certainly consulted with respected experts, technical experts, that he has reviewed good practice in developed countries, which, when we are responsible, we are very keen to refer to and that on some other basis he has decided to propose such a law. And a second time. Since I am also technically educated and also through long-term practice, including the introduction and implementation of quality systems in the car industry, I can talk about this with full responsibility. From this point of view, we must not compare existing cars, the current fleet, with cars decades ago. At times, the services were, if we remember, 2,500 miles [2,500 km] and 5,000 miles [5,000 km] later. It used to be a one-year warranty, now it's three years warranty, and it's been coming for five years. The guarantee is now at 100,000 kilometers. Sometimes we got a new car that had a mistake and you had to take it to the mechanics first. A lot of cars now have built-in information systems. I therefore do not understand what we should then discuss thoroughly and discuss in this national assembly. Are we Members aware that we can talk about sociological problems yesterday and today we would talk about technical problems? Are cars good, quality, or not? Is such a proposal going to cause more accidents? The drafter of the law knows on what basis such a law is proposed. I think the causes of accidents are completely different. From being poor roads, from being dense traffic, alcohol, high speed, non-compliance with traffic regulations and, for the most part, too good cars. Too good cars, not too weak. I do have a feeling that they are challenging this proposal, at least as I have seen in the public eye, those who are involved in technical checks. This is understandable because this will reduce their work, this is certainly true, and that this is also critically debated by institutions dealing with road safety as a road safety council, which is right to be vigilant to point out that the applicant is actually on the basis of this once again to see whether matters are okay or not. I believe that the law is good, that it is well thought out by the proponents, that it is rational, that it is kind to people who do not needlessly waste their time on annual technical checks, and that there will be some savings in the family budget. That is why I also understand the opposition colleagues who object to such a proposal because they are friendly to people, as they have also objected to removing the stickers. See how many discussions were also about the removal of stickers on the working body and also here, in the National Assembly. I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal to the drafter of this law and even to give the initiative to consider supplementing the law with regard to technical checks on trailers. What is now in law is inanimate - that trailers, which are permanently or for several years stationed in camps, must be taken for technical inspection every year. And here we have to separate trailers that drive and that are stationed. I think it would be very useful and kind to people; and these trailers are not small. To conclude again, I certainly support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are again considering one of the laws that will simplify public administration procedures and, above all, provide citizens with more accessible and cheaper services. I am pleased that I am part of the ruling coalition at a time when we adopt laws that are anti-biocratic in their content, while at the same time they are rational and lowering costs for both the state and the citizens who use the public services they speak about. At the time of the previous governments, we have listened only to words about reducing, accelerating and cutting red tape, but unfortunately nothing has been done, or at least nothing substantial. Now, in this mandate, the government and its coalition are actually realizing what the previous government has not been able to do, but only talked about it. The possibility of electronic renewal of the registration of a motor vehicle and thus considerable savings in time and money is another of some of the already introduced electronic modes of public administration and will certainly be a new strong motive for many who have not so far been subscribers to electronic commerce. If citizens choose between whether to register their vehicle they will have to go from home or their place of employment to the registration office, look for a parking spot, then wait in line and then return, and in view of the experience so far, spend about two hours, or settle the matter in five minutes from their computer and save some money in addition to saving time, then the decision will probably be very simple. Nevertheless, I believe that in the further process of dealing with the law, we should also seek a less difficult path regarding the service of a new transport licence and the return of the old one. I believe that, as stated in this proposal, too much has been put forward and that this process could also be simplified. I also agree with my colleague Brenčič, who pointed out this in his presentation. The extension of the first technical review from three to four years after the first registration is also a novelty that will be very welcome to people, which is also supposed to be the purpose of any legislation, although, as I said earlier, in the previous periods of the present period, the authorities, which were decisively created by the LDS and the United List, have not shown such aims and have more often taken care of themselves and for the strengthening of their power and privileges. This is probably also the reason why he does not want to go into the process of simplifying, reducing red tape and simplifying procedures that make it easier for people. He does not want to make it easy and help people, which would be normal, so I am very surprised that so-called liberals oppose and are against the greater liberalisation of the procedures enshrined in this law. This is very difficult to understand and I would also like to say that every year or often it is a matter of competence for people to carry out technical checks. It's not routine, but people don't have to. They shall do so where necessary, where it is necessary to increase or maintain road safety. Thank God this is changing now and in the National Assembly we are adopting regulations that directly facilitate and value the use of public services and communication with the state apparatus. As a result of the extension of the timeframes for mandatory technical inspections of motor vehicles, there will be no reduction in traffic safety. I can't agree with those of you who say this is going to happen. As has already been said several times, today's motor vehicle manufacturers produce significantly safer and substantially more technically flawless vehicles than in the past. Nor does the price of these vehicles affect the technical integrity alone. So I do not agree with the fact that cheaper vehicles are less safe, in some absolute sense yes, but are certainly not less technically flawless and even after a certain number of years are still technically fine and flawless. Of course, the price depends on because more expensive cars have greater engine power, greater volume, greater comfort, greater comfort, better and more capacity, better vehicle equipment. These are the elements that affect the price. The European Directive is very clear on this and this must be followed by all producers that the four-year implementation of technical checks is the framework in which transport safety is still ensured. It is also clear that everyone must take care of the safe vehicle and the technical equipment of his vehicle and be responsible for this on the basis of other applicable rules. The law that we are dealing with is therefore one of the laws that directly implements the promises and forecasts of a friendly state administration. The law will make it easier for motor vehicle owners to deal with the complex and costly process of technical inspections and registrations of motor vehicles. It will also save them some time, some nerves, and not least money. I would also like to say that the Agency or the Agency’s staff are still employees of the public or state administration. The termination of the Agency does not mean that once employees have moved within the state administration in a narrow sense of the word that this will increase the public administration, as this will still be the state administration as it has been so far as this part of the Agency has been exercised. For all these reasons, I support the proposed law or proposed amendment to the Road Safety Act, and I hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In my view, the simplification of the procedure envisaged by this bill is welcome. Simplification means greater kindness to people, that is to all motor vehicle owners, on the other hand, it is also high time for eGovernment to come to life in this area. People will be given the opportunity to use different variants. Here was mentioned the 1996 Directive, which speaks of technical checks being possible for 4 years and 4 years after the first registration, then every two years. Slovenia will not be the only one with this formula 4-2-2. Here were mentioned countries such as Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, Denmark. In most of these countries, however, this two-year period is much shorter. In Italy, for example, these annual periods of technical examinations do not begin until after the age of 12. Why am I defending this formula 4-2-2 myself? As has been said many times today, cars are now modern, good cars. Their technical correctness is usually not questionable for years at all. Another time. Any smart driver will make sure his car is technically finished. Most today are looking for services for their cars in authorized places, in the yard today the "shravfa" is very few, or the cars are also built so that you can barely replace a light bulb. Because of the higher standard that has been present in Slovenia in recent years, people are interfering with better and safer cars. Even in my places, in what remote corner you find it difficult to find a vehicle that would drive without license plates and almost no longer has a vehicle that would have been held together only by a rust, 10 years ago such cases in our country in Koroška were essential. I think that this country has, in recent years, done something to remove bureaucratic barriers and also to eliminate monopolies. In Koroška 10, 15 years ago there was only one authorized organization where we could register cars, this is in Slovenj Gradec, and some had to drive to this service or to this registration organization even after 60, 70 kilometers. 10 years ago we got one new organization, this is the AMZ in Dravograd, and two years ago at Ravna in Koroška. None of them have failed in these years. Most of these are involved in any other activity, either servicing or selling a car, with a car wash, so I think it's a fear that any d.o.o. would fail due to these legal changes. or companies, totally out of line. If this law is truly followed by what has been mentioned here today, this is the restoration of state - owned local roads, then this law will have its purpose and people will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer in particular to Mr Ljubeljšk, who mentioned that the applicant had made a good assessment of the reasons why he had gone to the drafting of this law. If you read the section State assessment and the reasons for adopting the amendment of the law, you will not find anywhere any serious analysis of why they decided to do so. I would have expected that it would be right in the introductory paragraph or sentence whether we are satisfied with traffic safety in Slovenia and why we are satisfied and that because we are satisfied that this traffic safety is very high, we are reducing measures that are directly linked to traffic safety in a way that does not diminish. This is not foreseen anywhere in the law, even less is the answer given whether we are satisfied with traffic safety in Slovenia. If we look at the table talking about how it is with the comparable countries mentioned - you mentioned Ireland. Gentlemen, Ireland has 400 deaths per million vehicles and we are now going to the level of technical checks Ireland has. Other countries in the European Union that have fewer deaths per million vehicles, such as Austria, Sweden, Finland, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Germany, are carrying out technical checks for three years and have better traffic safety than Slovenia or fewer fatalities per million vehicles. So, on what basis do we decide in Slovenia to go for four years? A flat and contemplative measure, which speaks only of this and is explained, is intended to reduce administrative procedures. Please, we are talking about road safety and we should come from a safety analysis and then say, but the solutions are the same and different ones that we expect from this law. I would like to draw attention to some other things that this law does not really contain and there is no analysis. There are no financial implications for either the State budget or the companies currently carrying out these technical checks in their programme. In recent years, as Mr Petek has explained, many companies have invested very much in these programmes so that Koroška, Kočevska, Bela Krajina can carry out technical checks, if I may say so. Today, we are reducing the scope of the works for these companies. I ask the applicant whether he has done an analysis in these companies, what will be the consequences for these companies in order to reduce the number of technical checks. There's no explanation for that in the law. So it's also economic damage. If we look at the explanation of the financial implications, public funds, for example, the state budget, it says that there will be no consequences in fact, but I ask the applicant whether the VAT on the services provided in these companies is the revenue of the state budget or not, and if, by reducing this service, what will be the impact on the state budget. For a moment, I will just go back to the forest law that we have discussed today, because it has been estimated that these are insurmountable financial consequences, because we are talking about 300 million tolars, as much as we should provide more resources for better local roads, and on the other hand, the assessment that I have for the first year alone for the introduction of the four-year technical review is the deduction of VAT in the state budget of 650 million tolars. Consequently, less resources from the State budget for the implementation of road policy. That is why I am talking about non-compliance and an inappropriate approach to this law. On the one hand, we are reducing funds in the state budget, in the municipal budgets, doing economic damage to companies and talking, and the owners of vehicles will save. The question is, how much will they save? However, 25% of accidents also depend on the technical integrity of vehicles. Not to mention that one life lost is impossible to value in tolars, euros and amounts, because this life is impossible to recover and cannot be evaluated through some rationalisation of the administrative procedure, it is impossible to do so. At the same time, we are also talking about a significant difficulty in the business of companies, especially in remote areas. Those areas that are the farthest from the major centres today will certainly also meet with at least one, two, three, four or five of the 52 ceases this activity. And what helps me, for example, what did a citizen from Kočevska save if he has to take his vehicle to Ljubljana for a technical inspection? Nothing at all. Or what will be saved by someone from Koroška because he will have to take his vehicle to Velenje or Celje, where there is such a larger center where this activity will be preserved. But all the more remote places will be affected. The assessment of the companies operating this activity shows that 200 jobs will be lost as a result of this measure. Creating one job is an extraordinary effort, and we will end 200 jobs with one reckless measure. What consequences this has for the state budget, because someone in the employment office will be the consequences of this on a coherent regional development, no one has made this assessment, not even from this point of view. That is how I continue to argue and I am sure, even because of these arguments, that this law is not sufficiently weighed. If we had all these assessments ahead of us when we discussed this law today in the general debate, this debate would be much better and the decision of all of us would be much easier. However, without this information, it is not possible to have a serious discussion and to carry out procedures for amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act through the National Assembly. This is not serious for me because these key data are not presented to Members and Members of Parliament. Thus, it is not possible to change such an important law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljublješek probably has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u116	I'll be brief. We really didn't get any analyses, but I talked in my debate about how serious the applicant is and that, I am sure, based on statistics, he also carried out analyses, as well as in discussions with experts and so on. That's one. And secondly, what I said, and I am sure that the causes of accidents are not bad cars, that the driving park is good, that cars are much better than decades ago, but that the causes of accidents are elsewhere, and this data is also provided by the applicant. And I think that even after the discussion, the speakers will say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. And the last one on the list is Mr. Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u118	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I have some things to explain, however, because it was obviously unclear whether my colleagues had not heard correctly or whether they wanted to inspire the Liberal Democracy to do things that I did not say. As far as electronic commerce is concerned, not a single word was against it. Not one. As far as the fleet is concerned, as far as article 211 is concerned, I don't know if it's nice that you allow people negligence, that you don't take all the parameters into account, that you don't take into account that we have bad roads. As far as 15 years are concerned, it was just words and no action. I'll say: in 1991 there were 119 kilometers of highways, now there are 451. 1991 - 517 dead, last year 259. Six hundred thousand cars in 1991, now a million. Of course, why people can have better cars, newer cars, why the driving park can be better. Also because in 1991 the salary was an average of €310 and today it is 730, the money buys cars, the people of God. Inflation was then 203%, last year 2.5. That's what wasn't just said, but now it's written that it's done. But I'd rather go to the things I've been talking about. I think the law, of course, also has good solutions. Comparisons with other countries, you know, are always repugnant because we can never take all parameters into account. One of them was pointed out by Mr. Weber. Ireland is for comparison, but of course it's much worse than us, it has as many dead as we had there, let's say, in the early 1990s. And surely this cannot be our pattern, and regression certainly is not the way forward. I've been talking about other things. Of course, it is not good to disrupt well-run systems. Those things that work well, however, need to be corrected, which do not work well. There's been a lot of talk about the causes of accidents, about the driver culture, these are the tasks of preventive work. It's to be elevated, not to cultivate impatience. I'm a pedestrian, a driver of a car and a motorist, and I know exactly what the attitude is to what role I'm in once on the road. To cultivate, of course, also with police reports on traffic accidents aversion to motorists, and this is very clear. Read some newspapers. These are matters to be dealt with by the Agency or the Preventive Council. But it is not that it is now grinding and that it will fade into nothing and that there will remain some civil society organizations that will actually deal with it and deal with it with their heart. An official is not to deal with his heart, but he's to work by law. While where we have civil society organisations or organisations that are not connected to the country, matters are significantly different. These are the experiences we've had since the '80s, '90s, and since before. There has always been progress, not in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I now invite Minister Matei, if I may have a word with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I listened to this interesting debate, even though I was away, I listened to what was said here in the government meeting room. In this regard, I would like to add some things. I would stop at two points where spears have been somehow broken today: one is the extension of technical checks or the obligation to carry out technical checks, and the other is the world for road traffic prevention and training. First, with regard to the extension of the period of the first technical review. This is because this first period is extended from three to four years and, as a result, the delays resulting from this. One of the leaders of this decision is the EU Directive, which is not binding, but it is advisory and advises and invites EU members to introduce the following method of technical checks. First after four years and then every two years and so for the rest of the life of a vehicle. We also reviewed the statistics in our country, which was, of course, at our disposal, and found that it is not acceptable, however, that after eight years of examinations we have two years. That is why we have decided to have checks for new vehicles after four years and so proposed. Then, in the next period of two years and two years to eight years, and after eight years, which is more stringent than some EU members already have, thus achieving that vehicles older and closer to the end of their lives are more frequently subject to a technical review. This seemed extremely important to us. With regard to statistics on how this has been conducted in the past three years, as mentioned, it has not been managed, how many vehicles have not carried out a technical examination and so on, I can agree with that. Of course, it has not been reviewed because these statistics could not be managed as we now do. This year we have compiled a new register that allows us to receive all data directly from technical checks and we can also check them on a central basis and determine how many vehicles do not perform a technical inspection after a certain period or at some age. If we look at, say, the data we have this year for vehicles after three years of technical inspection, we can find that out of almost 9,000 vehicles that have been inspected, there have been certain deficiencies in the technical inspection of 143 vehicles. The percentage of this is extremely low, but it should also be stressed that the technical inspection does not guarantee that the vehicle is technically "improvement" on the road in a month's time. The technical responsibility of the "improvement" vehicle shall be on the driver. Even if an accident occurs five minutes after leaving a technical inspection, and the vehicle is technically not "executive", the organisation that carried out the technical inspection shall not assume any legal responsibility. The driver responsible is the driver who controls this vehicle, who has to take care of all these matters. We believe that vehicles in Slovenia that are being sold are in such a state that the period of the first technical review proposed to move from the third to the fourth year is appropriate and will not endanger traffic safety in Slovenia. At the same time, I was very pleased with those words that I could hear here that only the technical "improvement" of vehicles is not the factor that has a decisive impact on road safety. In all accidents with fatalities and serious bodily injuries, as well as minor bodily injuries, the main cause, I stress, is excessive speed and alcohol. The technical "non-recovery" of vehicles is a minimal percentage of accidents, not just new vehicles and older vehicles. It's a complete picture if we look at it like that. Therefore, it is also necessary to rent this. It is clear, however, that companies carrying out technical checks thereby lose some certain profits, profits and therefore try to lobby in all ways. I do not want to accuse anyone of defending these companies here, but it is also necessary to say this clearly and loudly. If I touch the world for prevention and education. I find it very difficult and reluctant to touch the work of the previous government, but the previous government has abolished the world of prevention and education. The Council for Prevention and Education has been abolished by the current law. It's supposed to be an agency with specific tasks. Why is that important? The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council is not a professional organisation. This is not an institution that lives at the state level and only works at the state level. That's not true. The Council for Prevention and Education operates at the level of the State, volunteering, with experts from different fields and also working at local levels, in the same volunteering way. How did he finance himself? He financed himself by a group that supported the work of the world for prevention and education - five people there are employed, that we are very exact - receiving funds from the state budget. By amending the labour law and the status of civil servants, these people were placed outside the system. For 2003 and 2004, the financing of this institution by the State was at the border of the law. And these were serious problems, not only within the system, but also otherwise. This is why these matters need to be institutionalised. And it is by no means true that the claim that has been repeated here today has been that this government is abolishing the world of prevention and education. Absolutely not. The persons currently working in this group of people who technically support the prevention and training world are all, except for the President, unprofessional in this world. There will be a way of financing, a way of preserving the way in which funds will be put into the Ministry so that they can be legally and legally financed. And with regard to the perceptions that there are also going to be various contributions, donations from certain companies, we have to say very clearly, the donations that have been received so far have not been under the control of the State, we do not know what has happened to them. There's no surveillance. Now that they're in the system, if I say so, these donations will of course be possible. It will be possible, however, to conclude contracts in accordance with the normative legislation we have in this area and to make the consumption of these funds transparent; once again, I emphasise, transparent! The Council for Prevention and Education will remain, act as it has done so far, and this will be the world that the Minister of Transport will have as his advisory body, which will advise and suggest in the same way, will preserve their independence. As we already have on several ministries of professional councils or councils, which are different names, which are external institutions, non-professional, which suggest a solution to the minister or more ministries. And so it will be in the future with this world. So it is completely wrong to link the world to the institution of the President of the Council, and it is even more difficult to link it to the name and surname of this person. However, I must also make it very clear here that the President of the Council has become a professional function only two years ago. Before that, the world was completely and absolutely unprofessional - of course, the people who worked there received some compensation, some journals, some meetings - and the president acted that way. Why they decided to make this function professional, we should ask someone else. We're in this situation now. My personal opinion is that the world should act as it has done in the past, unprofessionally, with experts from all areas that can cover road safety. All together, we have a very difficult job to do to reduce the number of dead and traffic accidents on our roads. And here is not only the role of the road safety law, there are other issues, also - as mentioned today - the quality of roads, and especially the culture of drivers who drive on Slovenian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters got the word, the ones who wanted to be here. But since there is still some time left, I ask on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Just in case, I'll read the applications: Brenčič, Gulič, Kovacič, Friend and Kumer. Did I let anyone go? I didn't. So each debater has five minutes to discuss it further. And I invite you to the word of Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying that I have this happiness or that the quality that I don't have to pursue populism, not before, not now, and that I don't mind how good the former government was. She did good work. I was in it myself. She did good. And with this, it would be right, even the current coalition with Mr Kovacic at the helm would no longer be burdened, but would look at its results, after the realisation of its journeys from Lithuania to Catež. But let's just let it stop. However, I will say something, I am not burdened and "painful" because of companies or authorised services carrying out technical checks, but one thing I say is that the technical inspection of a motor vehicle is mandatory because it is mandatory. I know from my experience that she's already saved a lot of people's lives, but also someone who's involved in road traffic has a faulty vehicle, or he's on foot. That's why I say one, they're not that problematic, you know, first years. It is true that today the quality of built-in materials in vehicles is better and so on, but the key element that is not so present in the European Union is the condition of the vehicles. Anyone who knows this technology of automotive presence in the world of technology knows what it means for the steering system, for the braking system, for the impact pit. And after this winter, when you drove out of Logatz, Girra, that you have eight years of age south, if you're driving for a week, you have to have a checkup for the brake system. And really maybe Koroška has good roads that maybe that's why the cars can do better there, but I bought an uno for a time ago for one person I know who's not seven years old in Koroška. The first thing I did was advise and really advise this girl when I took him there: leave a technical inspection, if it was done in December last year, you have to give this car to someone on the service right away to restore your brake system. Since he was deadly - uno, a car that was not yet seven years old, I bought him in Koroška. I just want to say, not so problematic first years, but then prolonging with these influences on car technology and the immaculateness of the parts on the car caused by the conditions on the roads. And the long winters, the poorly sluggish winters in rural environments, and all of this has a terrible impact. And don't fall for it, you know that the quality of vehicles today is such that you don't have to do so many common services. That's not true! The market is forced into this that the services are not because it is over-serviced on a unit of car too expensive, and is no longer marketed, so while better materials are installed, they are better lubricants and so on, but in a global way, a car worth two million today is dangerous after eight years if we do not carry out a lot of mandatory preventive checks on it. Is it really 4 grand that deep in raising the family budget or is it perhaps worth so much less than the damage or life! No, it's worth so much more. So I don't have to start any populism, no bad speech for these companies, and I say one thing, from my knowledge of this area, that this extension for the situation on our road network, local, state and in view of our situation in the segment of all road vehicles is pointless, it is not good, it is not necessary. If we've done this for one year at the beginning, I'd still understand, but if we were to drag this forward, I don't think that's a good thing and let the proposer think this through again. Of course, I will not get political points for this, but I will get points on what has ever been this technical review preventive, compulsory, saved - I will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u124	Respectable, esteemed! If I hadn't won this debate, I would have responded to the reply to the Minister. In fact, his performance on the road traffic prevention and education world was heard as if everything was wrong there now, as if it were criminal acts, as if funds were disappearing and I don't know what it was. Now I want to hear, I know that the donor funds have been spent on the actions that I mentioned earlier: the first ride, the kid in the car, Lumpi's safe trip to school, etc. Of course, all the funds used so publicly are under control if they are not under such control, but they are under different circumstances. And I don't know why it would be the country that has such exclusive honesty built in itself and government. If that were the case, there would be no need for Parliament and no inspections, nothing. So this isn't the case. However, the prevention world has, of course, made so positive in all these years that all this work is much better to stay within the agency. It is said that there would be an agency that would continue to do so and with the transfer of people and, of course, with all this organisational structure, which then incorporated civil organisations and also the police and someone else who participated in all these preventive actions. We're on the same page here. I say that the work of the Preventive Council is in some way being broken down and impossible because it is being dealt with in such a partial way within the two ministries and because there are no infrastructure mechanisms in place. The second thing I would like to say again is this Article 211 and the extension of the registration periods. Although some of the speakers mentioned the roads, I think this is under-emphasis. It's not about the engines, it's about the lights. It's about the undercarriage. It's ruined because people make miles at the same time. If 5,000 miles [5,000 km] a year, today because of migratory flows, because the gravitational powers of the centers are increasing, people work 50,000 miles [50,000 km] in four years, 200,000 miles [200,000 km]. These are completely different numbers. And here the machine doesn't suffer because the lubricants are better because the machines are still the same as they were, just a little more plastic is inside and less metal. There's a lot of questions about quality. It's about the undercarriage, it's about the tires, it's about everything that keeps the car on the road. The roads are worse every day, not better, or at least not so much better, that this would not have a significant impact on driving conditions. Come with me once from Polzela to Velenje, so that I will not rush Zasavje now, where the roads are even worse. And I'll tell you, Minister, if you don't hold me tight, I'll come to Velenje alone and you'll be on your way. That's the way it is. That's a lot better on one-way vehicles. Third thing I'd like to say. Driver knowledge, we keep talking about the knowledge society, about permanent education and all that. There is no speech here in this novel of the law about this. There's no change. I still, and again, I repeat, it would be good to introduce refresher courses every 10 years so that, for the first time, people will learn again what they forgot to familiarize themselves with the changes because what is written in the daily newspaper people read or not to learn about changes that they can be sovereign in traffic. That's it. And of course to learn the tolerance and consideration of other participants. Sometimes you met on the way from Ljubljana to, say, Zasavje 50 vehicles on the road, but today you probably don't meet them from all the registered 50s, and the rest of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Let me also take preventive action and say that at this stage, for the first time, it is not possible to set up a replica. Secondly, that the Minister can no longer answer the question because he has not applied and that the other two speakers should take this into account, please. We have Mr. Kovacic on the list, then Mr. Kumar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Certain angry reactions to something I said in my debate seem to me that they are not in place, because when we talk about a problem where some regulation is changing, it is very difficult to avoid comparison with some of the times before. And if this was the time of the previous term, I wouldn't even talk about it. I spoke exclusively in the red tape segment or in the attempt at debirocratisation. And at this level, it actually comes from words to action. There were too many words before, we even had the Ministry of Information Society, where there were a lot of words and concrete results, you don't want, it wasn't much. And now, if words go from words to actions, I think it's just to say hello, and now I wouldn't blame anyone in fact, but I've only talked about these facts, maybe the circumstances were different before, but the facts are the same as I told them. The causes of traffic accidents, as we have heard, are different, the least of the reasons are precisely in the field of technical equipment, and there is also the majority of these older vehicles, which were technically "impaired" and were such a reason for causing a traffic accident. This extension of the technical inspections of four, two, two, one, one, one, one and so forth will achieve something recommended by the European Union Directive, while at the same time more stringently regulating this, since after eight years they will be technical inspections every year and not every two years, as recommended by the European Union. And if we are talking about eight years old - which car has already been mentioned, a punto or any, Mr Brenčič, or uno. Therefore, after this arrangement, a mandatory technical review will then be carried out every year and this will ensure that such a car, which is more dangerous after eight years than any other one, is in fact going ahead preventively and will thus be guaranteed that security will be ensured. However, I would appeal once again to try to find a more viable solution in the course of registration or in the renewal of traffic permits, to try to find a more flexible, less flexible solution in the service of a new marketing authorisation and in the return of an old one, more viable than the one recorded here. This, once again, is my call for further preparation of this material and for further adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Kumer, and then we will conclude the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I admit, I'm not a big car expert, although I have this happy circumstance that I'm an oldtimer fan, I have a daily opportunity to compare a 30-year-old car, and this newer one every day on the road and both are technically perfected, so they're probably both safe. But I would still point out one thing that made me think, and I must say that my colleague Brenčič has prepared me for it. Actually, here's where it was said, we have smart or stupid drivers. That's not true. When we talk about these things, we have you know or bride drivers, and because of these consciences, this mandatory preventive examination, which is called a technical examination, for the bride drivers, that appeal or that red light, that something is necessary on the car. Now, to come specifically to what I want to point out despite the news in cars, etc. In my opinion, one of the most important elements of the car is the braking system and even more tyre. The tires would stop. Note that a four-year period in the technical inspection means that we will have one quantity or one number of drivers, because it is also a cost, and this is one of the higher costs for a car that will wait until the last moment when there will be no profile on the tire; although preventively, the police can also perform on the road. But from a safety point of view, for every ten millimeter that decreases on tyres, the danger increases by so much and so much and also by safety. This is one element for which it will be necessary, even if this law is adopted in this direction, to give a guardian to be more restrictive, perhaps by the police or how these things can be corrected. Today you make a preventive roadside inspection, and you will find out - not that 3 millimetres, 2.5, 4 millimeters, but from a safety point of view it is also with 2.3 millimetres of profile 30-40 times the increased danger under different weather conditions. And, of course, the drivers will wait until the last moment for the tyres to be replaced. I think this prevention in this direction is the one that's going to have to play another role. I think it's just the cops who just stop on the road and that every tire profile measure, I don't think, will be in a four-year period. And expenses, savings. Those who have a lot of money have new cars and they'll be on four years and then two, two cars, but those who don't have a lot of money buy used cars and they'll have to go to a technical checkup every year, "a propos" alone, but that's not an argument that it wouldn't be, but those who talk about big savings. The one with little money will have to take the car to the technical inspection every year, the one with a lot of money will switch cars after four years, just like most of us in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's timing, today in the framework of the vote, in less than half an hour, at 14.15 a.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed from 14.15 p.m. Thank you, of course, also to the Minister and representatives of the government for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u130	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. Before voting, I ask you to check the functioning of the voting devices, namely the orange light on the right hand side of the card. We continue to end the 8th item of the agenda - secondly on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 14. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the consumer protection law, the reduced procedure. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the consumer protection law is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it we've reached a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the defence law, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the forest law, the reduced procedure. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Forests is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 24. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, once again following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third consideration of the proposal under the shorter procedure. As you know, in the third reading, it is not possible to table amendments, so we will decide on the law. At the same time, the standard notification that the legislature or the government did not inform me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, again after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, and since it is not possible to table amendments at this stage, we are moving on to a decision on the law. Again, the legislature or the government did not inform me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. We will decide on the proposal for the following decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble has the floor. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u131	On behalf of the delegation, thank you very much. We support the law in principle because it's good. However, we expected the Ministry of the Interior to take into account two considerations that have been taking place in the Slovenian public for quite some time. The first issue is belts that are actually a personal decision or who uses a seat belt in a car or not. I think it would make sense to arrange the matter to the extent that, in the case of insurance, those who did not use the belt, for example, are sanctioning this matter, because otherwise it is a matter of restricting a person's decision whether to use the safety belt or not. It's just as if we're restricting a man to not peeling cherries 2 meters above the ground, because he can fall to the ground and break his leg. That's something like that. A man makes his own decisions and then bears the consequences himself. That's one thing. And the other one is in exams, taking the exam as one. It's about taking away your education. Someone's done this education, they're done with their education. Let him be punished with money, let him be punished in any way, but no one can take away what he has done to him. This is the same as, say, if someone made a mistake in a veterinary college or was already a veterinarian, for example, they would replace the ox and bull in a slightly alcoholic state to take away his degree in veterinary school. That's not working. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] It just doesn't work and we can't. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u132	Please, take it easy!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u133	We can't support these things, because one more thing is that, in particular, if we get someone on a moped in an alcoholic state to sanction them by taking away all the categories for the car, for the engine, for the tractor, for the bus, for the truck and all. It's lifeless, it's pointless, and it's not right. Why not also withdraw the licence for pilotage and the licence to operate boats, boats, submarines and the like, as these are also means of transport. I think it would make sense if this Ministry of the Interior took this into account in the next amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to calm down. Sure it's the last day of school, but that doesn't mean we can act like schoolchildren. What we heard was, of course, more of a debate than an explanation of vote, but we're just in Parliament where it's spoken. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 17. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving into the international sphere at 23. Agenda item - On the defence of the draft law on the ratification of the international convention on the regulation of cetaceans and protocols to the international convention on the regulation of cetaceans, signed in Washington with date 2. December, 1946. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the ratification law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. They were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision - the officially refined text of the law on offences is confirmed. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 61 votes in favour. No one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision - the officially consolidated text of the Central Population Register Act is confirmed. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 58 votes in favour. No one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] This officially consolidated text is also adopted or approved. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision - the officially consolidated text of the Bank of Slovenia Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 60. No one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] This officially purified text is also confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision - the official text of the Health and Health Insurance Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 61 votes in favour. No one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] This officially purified text is also confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the Real Estate Intermediation Act is confirmed. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 60. No one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] This officially purified text is also confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the last proposal for a decision: The official text of the medical service law is confirmed. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 58 votes in favour. No one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] We have also confirmed this official text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day. Under this item, we will consider a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission, then a decision on amendments to the decision on the establishment of an electronic communications board and finally a decision on the decision on the appointment of the President of the State Audit Commission, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 58/2006 No 450-2/99-10/35 of 31 May 2006 shall expire. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Firstly, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder committee, Mrs Vesna Cukrov, to discharge her duties as a member of the State Audit Commission of 30 June 2006. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word mag. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The State Audit Commission is, of course, our serious problem, a common problem that has been filled by all Slovenian media and newspapers lately. The story obviously got too far, it's billions and billions of hard-earned taxpayers' money. And it is a feeling that in this story in the National Assembly we no longer know how to behave rationally. What's the problem? People who have undoubtedly been confirmed and proven to be exceptional financial experts and revisions in their fields are now withdrawing from this story and leaving because they see that a system is being built that does not give quality and professional work sufficient basis and success and guarantees for quality work. And that's what we can worry about the most. The biggest mistake is that obviously after experience with operating tables, from which we obviously have not learned enough, we are building a system further in this direction so that there will finally be an appeal in the government and the state, which is not good and is not a European practice. European practice and directives of the European Union allow this system, like some other European countries, to be built differently and more successfully, so that the system will be independent of the government and, of course, guarantees that taxpayers' money will be spent better and more usefully. We cannot and do not intend to oppose a candidate's resignation at the LDS Parliamentary Club for personal reasons. However, for personal reasons, many concessions are of great concern to us. This is what we place on everyone in this round hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Potsch on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is right that we make it very clear why in cases of appointments and dismissals of members and members and also of the Presidents of the Audit Commission we are all not members of the Election Commission and we are not addressing this issue. In the last half of the year, the mandate-election commission has been faced with the same question several times, and this is the first time with a question that leaves no doubt for reasons. This time a candidate for discharge as members and this time a candidate for president has clearly stated why she is withdrawing her candidacy. She informed that she could not accept responsibility for such work in the audit committee, in which she would decide whether the complaint against the decision of the contracting authority was justified or not, whenever the Government wished, as was the proposed law to be discussed and decided on Tuesday. It is not prepared to accept this responsibility in the light of the fact that wrong decisions can also be taken and, above all, to become eligible for public procurement, especially for those who have close ties with the government. The appeal procedure will continue, the appeal procedure will be open to the international court, and this country will be held accountable by the government. I think it is right to know that we would have no doubts as to what the government is doing in this particular case. It is a matter of wanting to bring an important supervisory institution, which is the audit committee, in the example of other supervisory institutions, into line with policy so that the tax policy can do whatever it wants. I think it's right to say this and to be aware of the decisions we make. This does not mean that it is possible to do anything other than respect the stand-up attitude of a candidate who reports that she no longer wants to be a member of such an audit committee and therefore to confirm her discharge and, at the same time under point C, to take note of the fact that she has also resigned as President of the Audit Commission for the reasons I spoke about. We don't think that's an important question, because many people don't see it through their faces and smiles, when you knock on closed doors, you talk to people who won't hear your moaning. But it's huge sums, it's also dozens and dozens of billions of dollars, it's customerism that will be re-created, and it's customerism that you, ladies and gentlemen, have fought against in the coalition so much with words, not with action in the previous term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. There are no other panellists. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mrs Vesna Sugar of the duties of the Member of the State Audit Commission of 30 June 2006. Mr Jožef Školč and Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti applied for the explanation of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm in a dilemma myself, on which of the three keys to press. It is not possible to oppose free will. However, to resolve someone who alerts to the problem, while being silent, to participate in the "robota" that the coalition is doing when it comes to the issue of the impact on the audit committee, I find it inappropriate. I will therefore abstain in this vote. I regret, however, that the coalition members, including the SLS, have not taken the initiative to discuss the situation in the National Assembly. To see what's actually going on with the audit committee in the last six months and why we're witnessing a series of resignations for personal reasons. Fortunately, this formal withdrawal statement was followed by an explanation in the newspapers. Fortunately, it is clear that the other members of the audit committee are no longer prepared to participate in this body because of the planned change in the role of that body. This is a problem that goes beyond the issue of the coalition, and it is worth noting here. Dear Friends of Coalition Parties [[End warning sign]] , control over the use of public funds is what is not only in the interest of the opposition but must be in the interest of the entire Parliament and must be in the interest of all [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u140	Time's up. I would like to point out that this is an explanation for the vote, not a debate. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I absolutely respect Mrs Sugar's decision to resign from this position. This is her right, and I think that this right must be respected. On the other hand, I wonder why some people are now talking so vehemently about the deprivation of human rights, and I don't know what they are forgetting when they actually forget that the audit committee is the State Audit Commission. If we look at how the Italian Audit Commission works, German, Swiss, Portuguese, we find that the national interest is the first one. That's why I like it very much if they come from this committee, people who think that it is necessary to put one or the European Union or some globalisation trends over their own country, and then forget that we are from some Slovenia, where we have to fight for our people and our companies to make a profit. I and the Slovenian National Party have been in pain for a long time, as some of the former Audit Commission have tried to push the work of a foreigner into their hands and take it to Slovenian companies. This happened very often during the time of Mr Drnovška and also later on, Mr Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u142	Mr. Jelinčič, you've gone too far. This is also a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u143	Mr Vice President, I haven't gone too far, actually, I've only taken one step. If I had gone too far, I would have said all the names involved in the various machinations concerning this audit committee. Once again, I will absolutely accept this derogation from Mrs Sugar and, on the other hand, I hope that the next State Audit Commission will be the State Audit Commission of the Republic of Slovenia, not a supranational body to bow to the left or the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you. The vote will be explained by Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The truth must be told that without reservation we will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision, because we take into account the will of the members and also of the candidates, and continue to be candidates for the President of the Audit Commission. However, it must also be said that the audit committee in this fateful and I do not know how much longer, as it has been heard today, is operating perfectly normally without any delays, without unresolved matters, and also thanks to us who have made all the efforts to replace the candidates who have decided to resign. It should also be said that in the case of the lady whose resignation we are deciding today, the arguments for withdrawal are clear. It does not appear in their resignation statements that they are resigning because of any other than unforeseen personal matters. And in accordance with Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act, quoted above, we are essentially left with absolutely nothing left but to take into account the personal will expressed in this way and to confirm the decision before you today. However, I think it is necessary, and I have the opportunity to say this, that an invitation to tender will proceed immediately after today's rulings. On 12 July, an urgent meeting of the Election Commission is foreseen. I believe that we will have candidates and that we will be able to appoint the President and alternate member of the Audit Commission at the July session, thus ensuring the normal and smooth work of the Audit Commission in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you. The voice will explain the mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u147	True, it is a personal derogation and there is really nothing to be done. That's only if we're formalists and if we don't see the content. For personal reasons, I assume that the Director of the Budget Authority was replaced for personal reasons, I assume that you wanted to abolish the Anti-Corruption Commission and, for personal reasons, an unconstitutionally replaced Director of the Anti-Money Laundering Office was. You have now announced that by amending the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, you will abolish the State Audit Commission because the President of the State Audit Commission will become Prime Minister. That's all the content [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u148	Mag. I have a duty to warn you, too!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I think there's a lot to be done. At least today, it could be considered procedurally that we do not confirm these decisions and may consider on Tuesday at an extraordinary meeting the content of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, which abolishes the State Audit Commission. But we can be formalists, and today we will confirm this and start a new procedure. However, upright people do not want to work in jobs where public procurement becomes political orders. It's 500 billion jobs a year. Once these are political orders, corruption will become, in particular, political corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We should also hear from Members and Members how they will vote. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I will take into account the personal will of the President of the Commission and I will vote in favour. In doing so, it is necessary to tell all those who think and assess that these things are normal, happening in democracy, and to convince us that we are working on unnecessary political stories where they are not, that you are moving around and that you are throwing sand in the eyes. The situation is not normal, the derogations are not only the result of personal decisions and pressures, but also, in my personal opinion, the result of informal pressure on the one hand and on the other hand of the immanence of the members of this Commission and continue to be a planned process of lifting an independent and independent State audit commission. The eradication of the integrity of this Commission is only one continuation in the story of the fight against corruption by this government and this government majority. First, to abolish Kosovo's commission, now, to abolish this audit commission and create a fertile ground for corruption to flourish. But we all know, and this research confirms that one of the heads of the corruption dragon is at the top of the policy, it is at the top of the executive branch. And that's why I'm not surprised and not surprised by this situation, that most of them are making fertile soil for corruption to flourish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Again, please explain your voice and do not spread a topic that is very narrow, at least on paper and in front of us. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start anyway, despite your suggestion, a little differently. I don't know who got mixed up in this national council. I don't know who's in the middle of a crime scene today. However, I am convinced that this is not the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Secondly, I will support the proposal for this decision, given that Mrs Sugar himself has made a statement before taking over the function of managing the audit committee. However, I would expect people who accept the challenge of accepting such a responsible role to be aware then, regardless of who is in power, of what they are going into. Madam worked on the audit committee earlier, and I think she is still working until the end of this month. And I'm saying it again. The same was true of membership, as we also discussed on the Commission's mandate, when one applied for a member, on the day that its application was to be considered, perhaps it was also appointed as a member of the Audit Commission, 10 minutes before we were informed that it was departing from this candidacy. She was also a member of the audit committee. So let my call be to confirm this decision to people who decide something to stand behind, and sometimes, I'll say, they're thorns, but sometimes they're roses.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you. The voice will explain Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would warn all my colleagues who have discussed and reasoned their voices before me that it would be good if they had read the first decision on why the lady is withdrawing. This lady resigned because she was elected President of the State Audit Commission. And in this decision, we only discharge her from her seat because she has decided to do some work that I think she is more qualified to do. And for personal reasons, she resigned, not because I don't know what. She probably decided she was able to do more difficult work, she knew him very well, she wrote a lot in that role. But she apparently realized overnight that she was no longer qualified for these matters and was unable to do them. It is also a fact that we adopt from 20 to 40 laws each month in this national assembly. Many of these laws interfere with a wide range of public systems, such as institutions, in the local community, and nothing appears to give up. It's not normal, but we change our jurisdiction, we change our working conditions, we change a lot of things. That's the level we're at. And especially because the lady has resigned because she has been elected President of the State Audit Commission, I will support this decision, solely for this reason and without all the other decorations that are going to happen, or will not happen. All of these are your assumptions that you've become accustomed to in the mandates that you've acted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u156	The voice will explain Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u157	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we will respect Mrs Vesna Sugar's decision. She resigned for personal reasons, as we respected when, as a member of the audit committee, she applied for the presidency. Ms Vesna Sugar was appointed to this audit committee in another mandate. So, it was named by the previous government coalition. And this government coalition has, I would say, rewarded her for her work and her wishes by appointing her president. We are in New Slovenia for this reason, because she was already a member, and we said she knows the job, let's vote to become president of the audit commission. The Public Procurement Act, on the basis of which the Audit Commission is working, was also created during the previous government coalition and is the same as it is. I remember the debate when we adopted this law. Mrs Helena Kamnar then said here in this room that about 10% of the value of public contracts is poured into private pockets. You can go watch a magnetogram and you'll find this written down. I believe today, when the tentacles for these private pockets close, the pressure on all sides is very great. But this pressure has to be sustained, and all these things that go up in private pockets through public procurement, my colleague Cwickl said it's 500 billion dollars. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u158	Mr. Sok, you're moving away from the explanation, you're politicizing a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u159	No, I'm not. That's the information he said that he was holding. So we can figure out how big the funds are and how great the pressures here are. I guess, I don't know, some of you are psychics, you know, for whatever reason, we just don't know. On the other hand, everyone in this National Assembly can in their own way think about why the lady decided to resign before she even started this function. There is no other option than to respect this irrevocable declaration of resignation, to resolve it and to reopen the call for a new President. I would also like to say that, as a member of Parliament, I was very surprised to have received one letter from her as a member of Kviaz, while then I read something completely different in the media. It would be correct to say that, as a state auditor, I would also inform the Election and Appointment Commission of these reasons, not to report it to us through the media. We will vote in New Slovenia for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you. The vote will be explained by Mrs. Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! I think it is necessary to say today that Mrs Vesna Sugar is extremely correct, extremely upright, honest person who I think has done her work on the audit committee, and above all is a person with a spine. And I hope that there will be something else, with everything that is going on in Slovenia, such persons in the future. There's probably more of them with broken spines and more. As its later derogation from the application was disputed, it must be said that, at the time that Mrs Sugar signed up, the amendments to the revision law had not yet been made. And under such conditions, she was prepared to work on the audit committee and also to become president of the audit commission. In the meantime, because of the operating tables - I guess I don't believe it, but we'll talk about it on Tuesday - you brought a change to the law that the audit committee, as a colleague said, is abolishing. This audit committee is no longer available, and in particular it will no longer be an independent audit committee, whether national or not, and it will no longer be an independent audit committee. And I will not support this decision. By abstaining from voting, I want to show this attitude towards her. There's something else I'd like to say. You obviously don't read the papers. In many media over the last few days, the lady has said a lot of critical things about the planned changes, about why she has resigned from these functions and is leaving for law. And today, it is not true that there is speculation, our clairvoyance! We read newspapers! You only read them when it suits you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd like to proceed with the session. Mr. Potts wants to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Once again, I will say that I will support Mrs Vesna Sugar's proposal to resolve, as well as the later conclusion under C, that she has terminated her decision to appoint her president, out of respect for her personal decision. But I'd like to say the following. I don't want to be like the Chinese monkey with her eyes closed, her ears closed and her mouth closed, and she likes to see, hear and speak only what suits her right now. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Vesna Cukrov has decided to cease to be a member of the audit commission because she has applied for president. At the time of her application for president, she expected that the audit committee could still act independently and independently because there was not yet a bill to be decided on Tuesday. After submitting this proposal, she gave her opinion on it on the parent’s working body. She later stated that she was withdrawing for personal reasons. However, it has clearly clarified and linked these personal reasons to the position of the audit committee under a new law which is unacceptable to it. So it really doesn't make any sense to look at these questions. Each one acts as he does, but believe that the reasons are so crystal clear, except for the one who does consciously act in such a way that he does not see, hears, and does not speak like that Chinese monkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-23-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decree amending the decision establishing an electronic communications council. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a mandate-holder commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we will decide on a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing an electronic communications council. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We will now decide on the finding that the decision on the appointment of the President of the State Audit Commission (Ur. I. RS, No 58/2006), 450-02/99-10/35 of 31 May 2006 shall expire. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Law on the revision of procurement procedures and Articles 112 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following shall be established. On 31 May 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision appointing Ms Vesno Cukrov as President of the State Audit Commission to take office from 1 July 2006 to 23 December 2009. On 19 June 2006, the National Assembly informed Ms Vesna Cukrov that it could not start and assume the office of President of the State Audit Commission to which it was appointed. The National Assembly therefore notes that the decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission, No. 450-02/99-10/35 of 31 May 2006, [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 58/2006]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the A new procedure shall be carried out for the appointment of the President of the State Audit Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And today's final point. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - this is the third reading of the bill on international development cooperation in the Republic of Slovenia. On Wednesday, 21 May 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the parental working body of the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm just asking for one more minute of attention. First of all, I ask you to take all your things with you for tomorrow's festive session. Secondly, allow me to congratulate you from the heart on your public holiday and on your 15th anniversary of independence, to congratulate your schoolchildren and students on their successful completion of the school year and to wish them a pleasant holiday. But, of course, I wish you a nice weekend and a good-bye at the meeting tomorrow. Thank you and a nice hello. I hereby conclude the 18th meeting of the National Assembly.
