ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-09-SDZ4-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Please take your seats and calm down. Thank you. I am opening the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 156, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Aurelio Juri, Dimitriy Kovacic, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Willie Rezman, mag. Borut Saiovic and Janko Weber. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuk, and the other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 156 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 4 October 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. There are 51 Members and Members present, 49 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - This is for the presentation of the 2007 and 2008 budget memo and the 2008 budget proposal for the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the first act of addressing and adopting the 2008 state budget in the National Assembly, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will present a budgetary memorandum and a draft state budget. There is no debate on this presentation. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to present the 2007 and 2008 budgetary memorandum and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-09-SDZ4-Izredna-22.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Members!The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly, within the time limit, a draft amending budget for 2007 and a draft budget for 2008, together with accompanying documents. We are aware that we are facing very important steps in economic and social reforms. Our goal is to build on the solid foundations on which we want to build a modern social state. The 2007 budget memorandum, 2008 and the Public Finance Act provide a fundamental framework for the proposed 2007 budget changes and the proposed 2008 budget. The budgetary memorandum, based on forecasts of macroeconomic developments for 2007 and 2008, fully summarises the definitions of the strategy for the development of Slovenia adopted in June 2005. This strategy sets out the government's main orientations in managing public finances, managing economic policy and developing Slovenia. This is how we want to achieve the economic, social and intergenerational goals of the development of Slovenia and to place Slovenia in the world as a recognizable and reputable country. The main objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and all the underlying measures are to improve the quality of life or to increase the well-being of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Our country has also made membership in the European Union the goal of leading economic policies by creating a stable environment for the economy and being able to take over the euro as its own currency in due course. Dear Members and Members, all of us, citizens and citizens, can be proud that Slovenia, as the only new member of the European Union, will take over the euro as a hair currency on 1 January 2007. This is a great, internationally measurable success for our country. The path was not easy, as the challenging Maastricht criteria had to be met. So far, only Slovenia has succeeded. Slovenia has also met once and for all the almost unattainable convergence criteria on inflation since November 2005. According to the latest data, the average annual inflation is 2.6%, which is 0.2% below the criterion. The estimated fiscal deficit for 2006 is 1.1%, the public financial debt for 2006 is estimated at 29.4% and is important below 60%, which is prescribed by the European Central Bank. Long-term interest rates are 3.8% in Slovenia and are 2.3% lower than the MAASTRIC criterion, which is 6.1%. The Slovenian tolar did not fluctuate by more than 0.17% of the central parity during the stay or involvement in the RM2 mechanism. These are excellent results for Slovenia, its citizens and citizens who are very positive in the world, especially in the financial circles. Following the final publication of the European Council that Slovenia will take over the euro as a hair currency as from 1 January 2007, one of the most important international evaluation agencies has improved the assessment of Slovenia's known debt from A- to A. This is a very high assessment, which means for the Slovenian economy the possibility of cheaper borrowing of loans in international financial markets. In the long term, we can expect lower inflation as well as lower interest rates, which will have a positive impact on investment and economic growth. The elimination of exchange rate fluctuations between the euro-initiated countries will create an even more stable environment for the entire Slovenian economy. As a result, many uncertainties of risk will be addressed, as will the costs of exchange. Foreign investment will increase and the business sector will be strengthened. Slovenia's success is even greater because it has met the conditions for taking over the euro and at the same time improved its overall economic situation, which has never been so good in its history. The assessment of Slovenia's gross social product by purchasing power, according to Eurostat's latest figures for 2005, amounts to 80% of the European Union's gross social product and €18 000 per capita, which is Slovenia's top priority for the new Member States of the European Union. We achieved the criteria for taking over the euro at 5% economic growth in the first half of this year, compared to the same period last year. The most important factors of economic growth in the first half of this year were exports of goods and services and gross investment in fixed assets. Real value added growth in Slovenia was 4.7% in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year. In the first half of 2006, productivity growth was 4.1% year-on-year and was more than 1.6% higher than wage growth, which increased by 2.5% in the first half of 2006 compared to the same period last year. High economic growth has contributed to higher employment. In Slovenia, so in July this year there were 1.4% more people than in the same period last year, the work in Slovenia in July had 825 thousand 169 people. The number of registered unemployed was the lowest since 1991 in July. According to the methodology of the international organisation of labour, unemployment was 6.4% in the first half of this year according to the same period last year. The real growth in exports of goods and services during the first half of this year was 11.6% compared to the same period last year and thus by a percentage point higher than the real growth of imports of goods and services for the same period last year. Real estimates show that trends in positive economic trends will continue with the implementation of the planned reforms. Economic growth is estimated at 4.7% for this year, 4.3% for 2007 and 4.2% for 2008. The result of a slightly lower forecast for the coming years is a forecast of slowing down economic growth in the international environment and, as a result, a slowdown in exports of goods and services, which is estimated to continue to be higher than expected import growth. The current balance of payments account deficit for 2006 is estimated at 2.4 gross domestic product, a percentage of gross domestic product, for 2007 at 1.6% of GDP and 1.2% for 2008. Employment growth is estimated at 0.9% for 2006, 0.8% for 2007 and 0.9 for 2008. According to autumn forecast, real gross wage growth in 2006 will be 2.2% in 2007 2.5% and 3% in 2008 respectively. Following slightly higher inflation expected in 2006 and 2007, average inflation is estimated to fall from 2.7 per cent to 2.5 per cent in 2008. The main risk for rising inflation remains the rise in energy prices on global markets. The proposals for amending the 2007 budget and the 2008 budget, which are before you, are realistically developmental and include measures to achieve the objectives of a more flexible and competitive economy, higher economic growth, higher employment, knowledge-based economic development, efficient and cheaper social state and consistent sustainable development of all regions of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite politically motivated resistance to the necessary reforms in the commitment to a more developed and realistic society, is not going to cancel. We are following this objective in all government decisions, including in the preparation of the amending 2007 budget and the 2008 draft budget, which we are presenting at today's meeting of the National Assembly. The proposal for amending the 2007 budget thus foresees 1,860 billion tolars of revenue, 24.5% of GDP and 1.937 billion tolars of expenditure, or 25 and a half percent of GDP. The budget deficit in 2007 is estimated at 76.3 billion tolars or 1.01% of GDP. Compared to the 2006 state budget revenue and expenditure assessment, this means that budget revenues are falling by 0.5 percentage points of GDP, while expenditure is falling by 0.6 percentage points. In 2008, the state budget proposal envisions 1.950 billion tolls of revenue, 24.1% of GDP and 2.023 billion tolars of expenditure and 25% of GDP. The budget deficit in 2008 is thus estimated at 73.4 billion tolars and 0.91% of GDP. This means that the projected revenue of the State budget is reduced by about 0.4 percentage points of GDP compared to the 2007 amendment proposal, while the expenditure is reduced by 0.5 percentage points. Consolidated government revenue for 2007, which includes health and pension receipts as well as municipalities, is estimated at 3,277 billion tolars or 43.2% of GDP, while consolidated expenditure is projected at 3,504 billion tolars or 44.1% of GDP. The projected government deficit in 2007 will thus amount to 67.5 billion tolls, or 0.89% of gross domestic product. In 2008, the draft budget provides for consolidated revenue of 3443 billion tolars, 42.5% of GDP and consolidated expenditure of 43.3% of gross domestic product. The government deficit in 2008 is projected to amount to 61.7 billion tolls, or 0.76% of GDP. The cash institution for pension and disability insurance remains balanced while surpluses are foreseen at the health insurance office and municipalities in 2007 and 2008. We estimate that, in the context of the EU's financial perspective, the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget from the European Union budget will average 1.56% of GDP between 2007 and 2011, while the outflows will be at 1.13% of GDP. The net sales of the Slovenian budget vis-à-vis the EU budget are thus projected at 0.43% of GDP. This percentage does not include inflows from the EU budget, those going directly to the final beneficiaries from the Republic of Slovenia. Dearly respected, the tax reform that started in Slovenia with the introduction of new laws in the tax area on 1 January this year is an urgent step towards achieving the Lisbon goals or targets set out in its Slovenian version, which is a strategy for the development of Slovenia. The tax reform was based on the indisputable fact that the Slovenian economy was overloaded mainly due to over-taxed work. Businesses in Slovenia have been overly progressive in the taxation of labour, devouring the necessary resources for investment in growth and development. The "innovation peak" - in narrations - in tax collection, the then government, made up of the main parties of the current opposition, achieved by imposing a tax on paid salaries. The first emergency measure that we have written down in the strategy for the development of Slovenia and we are already implementing it has therefore been the gradual abolition of the tax on salaries paid. The government reduces this tax by 40% after a 20% reduction in 2006 as well as in the 2007 budget. In 2008, the tax is reduced by 70% and in 2009 it is completely abolished. The government is continuing the tax reform with a package of 7 laws that were submitted last week to the National Assembly. The purpose of amending the Income Act is not to relieve the richest, but to reduce excessive progress in labour taxation. In Slovenia, the richest are not the ones with the highest wages, but those who have acquired stakes in many Slovenian companies in the 15-year transition period in the conditions of impreciseness, but also many with the clientelistic political support at very low prices. More cynicism is that today the same people and parties who have advocated and allowed wild privatisation have also prevented any criminal responsibility for billions of places and for many years have left the transitional capital gains untaxed, today it is clear that with the proposed amendment of legislation we are burdening the richest. The draft Income Act, which provides for three tax rates, is the result of analyses which have shown that such taxation is best for the growth of the Slovenian economy. Once this law has been implemented, it will be cheaper to hire new high-skilled workers, which are now too expensive for businesses. This is precisely why we have a large number of highly educated unemployed people in Slovenia, in which society has invested a lot and which could also, with its knowledge, contribute very much to the development of Slovenia, of course, if we get a job. The government does not provide for new taxation of citizens by means of amendments to tax legislation. We have made an exception only in the taxation of vessels and have better regulated this area. The Value Added Tax Act, an article allowing for an increase, has existed since the introduction of VAT in 1999. It was not proposed by the current government, we know who was in power in 1999. Today's opposition forgets that, as the former government in 2002, under this Article, it has already increased the VAT rate by 0.5% for the lower level and 1% for the higher rate. At that time, no political party, no union and no newspaper declared a disaster as it is today, and it is absurd that in 2002 the rise actually took place, and in 2006, when we listen to it, such an increase is not even proposed. The lift or introduction of certain new excise duties is a result of the takeover of the European regime of excise duty, which Slovenia took over as of 1 May 2004 and legal order. The so-called Energy Directive, adopted by the European Council at the end of 2003, also includes electricity, natural gas, coal and coke, in addition to alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and mineral oils. Slovenia also requested a transitional period after 1.7.2007, but this proposal was not accepted by the European Commission. Therefore, it is unacceptable to mislead the public about excise duties, since this is not the case with the Slovenian legislator or the government, but rather with Slovenia only implementing the commitments which, like the other full members of the European Union, with regard to this excise duty directive. With amendments to the Law on Taxation from Legal Persons to 2010, we are reducing the general tax rate from the current 25 to 20%, with tax evasion falling from 25 to 15%. According to the proposal for amendments to the law, double taxation is abolished, long-term reservations of 50% are recognised, losses can be covered unlimitedly in the following tax periods. Dear Members and Members! These changes represent a significant burden on the Slovenian economy and therefore reduce public spending, which can also reduce the budget deficit. Viewed in its entirety, these burdens are certainly far from the greatest ever seen in the history of Slovenia. Special incentives for investing in R & D, for hiring disabled persons and for facilitating voluntary supplementary pension insurance shall also be maintained. The tax procedure will significantly simplify with the new law. As a result, we will save not only millions of hours of work but also a lot of costs. Although the figures speak for themselves, I would like to point out in this introduction that the government has paid compensation for lower revenues to the state budget due to the decommissioning of the Slovenian economy by reducing the expenditure from the state budget, mainly as a result of austerity measures, eliminating bureaucratic barriers and rationalising budgetary spending. These measures will continue in the coming years. It is important to note that the new Law on municipalities will reduce the state budget by 43 billion dollars and that the transfer of municipalities from the state budget will also be reduced by the same amount. The Slovenian economy is due to a favourable international environment and, in particular, to the already under way of a good situation, so we will also have more room for manoeuvre in addressing the structural public financial deficit. The basic medium-term objective of the public financial policy is thus its gradual removal by the end of 2011. Following the adoption of the euro on 1 January 2007, when monetary policy will be in the hands of the European Central Bank and Slovenia will participate as an equal partner in joint decisions, fiscal policy will be the only option to ensure economic stability. The government has focused so much on restructuring public finances that they will be more flexible and that they will be able to respond more to the possible disadvantages. At the same time, special attention will continue to be given to the development restructuring of the budget. The government will thus continue to increase its expenditure on research and development from public funds, in line with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. We will increase expenditure on tertiary education and expenditure on active employment policy, training or lifelong learning and scholarship. Also expenditure on certain cultural activities, which the government considers not to be an unnecessary cost, but as part of our efforts to increase general prosperity in Slovenia. The government is also preparing strategies to ensure the long-term stability of public finances in response to economic stress and the reduction of the public financial deficit. In particular, due to the common European problem posed by population ageing, as well as the development of medicine and new treatment options, thus increasing the need for pensions, health care and age care is a real challenge for Slovenia and for the EU as a whole. Although pensions and health services in Slovenia will be adequate and stable by 2020, the government is already leading coordinated policies in various areas to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances as a result of the measures already implemented in accordance with the socio-economic principle. Here I am thinking of all the needs not of measures for a long-term sustainable increase in economic growth, employment, the share of insured persons throughout the population, the maintenance of an appropriate relationship between the active and the pension population, the greater responsibility of the individual for his social situation and the promotion of inclusion in voluntary pension insurance. The very long-term stability of the financial system will be crucial to the long-term sustainability of all public finances. With confidence in the Slovenian capital market and with tax incentives for voluntary pension insurance, we want to achieve that people will save more in their active years, which will mean an additional inflow to the capital market. With the option of choosing between products with a statutory minimum guaranteed profitability and other more profitable products, pension funds of additional voluntary insurance in accordance with their investment plans as investors will also participate in the privatisation of Slovenian companies, as part of the funds will be able to invest in equity securities. The models of the second phase of privatisation provide for significant participation of portfolio investors in the company's ownership structure. In order to ensure greater stability of the financial system, a new text of the Banking Act has also been prepared which, in line with the new EU directives on the performance of the business and capital adequacy of credit institutions, introduces new, more detailed and complex standards for bank safe and prudential operations. I am confident that the new law on the market in financial instruments will increase the safety of minority shareholders and thus strengthen confidence in the Slovenian capital market. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to briefly summarise some of the most important facts that form the real basis for this year's budget debate. As I said before, the Government's fundamental objective in managing economic policy is to raise the sustainable rate of growth of the economy and promote employment while at the same time increasing social security. In view of the realization in the first half of this year and the projections of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, I can see that the government has been successful in achieving this goal, as economic growth is high, such is the forecast for this year, which is corrected by more than half a percentage point and such is the forecast for 2007, 2008. Inflation remains low under the euro takeover criteria, employment is rising, the rate of unemployment registration is decreasing. And if we compare this data to the 2005 reality, we see that in this time the government has succeeded in improving the image on each of these segments. In 2005, economic growth was 4%, employment growth was 0.3% and registered unemployment rate was 10.2%), all of which are better for the first half of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2007 budget changes are being considered and the 2008 budget is in a position when we first face a new environment to compare ourselves with. We used to compare these indicators within the Austro-Hungarian Empire, then within the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and then within the SFRY. We have been comparing ourselves within the European Union for two years and since January next year we have been competing in a new environment, the most developed and the most difficult ever. In the European Monetary Union, in the euro area, in the informal internal circle of the Union, in which Slovenia will become the 13th new member or 13th member. And it is right that, for the first time in our history, we face this new environment and this comparison before the budgetary debate. This comparison of the 13th, which belongs to Slovenia from 1 January of the following year, shows that Slovenia is only Portugal after the gross domestic product per capita in this family in the 12th place. That, after inflation at 9th place, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain and Greece remain better after real growth; that, after the debt of the state of Slovenia in 3rd place, Ireland and Luxembourg are again ahead of us, that, by the international organisation of the works of Slovenia in 5th place, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria are still worse off, and that, at the real rate of productivity growth of Slovenia in 3rd place, Luxembourg and Greece are ahead of us. The comparison is based on statistics for 2005. These data, which I have mentioned, show us the complexity of the new environment, which is part of Slovenia as well. They also show that we have not been given a European monetary union, and all the criteria have to be met. While we are on the tail of the development of the euro area after the gross domestic product, most of our developmental indicators look forward to moving forward soon. I am fully convinced that we are on the right track and that Slovenia will be able to move faster than ever before towards the well-being of all those living in it, and the budgetary debate we are starting today is an important direction on this path. I want you to do it in a constructive atmosphere, because it is our common interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-09-SDZ4-Izredna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, for an additional presentation of the budget memorandum and draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-09-SDZ4-Izredna-22.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The 2007 and 2008 budgetary memorandum is prepared in accordance with the Slovenian Development Strategy and on the basis of the government's commitment to pursue economic and social reforms. As part of the tax reform, important steps have already been taken last year to reduce tax burdens both for the economy and for citizens, and even more important are planned in the proposed amendments to the tax legislation on which the National Assembly has already carried out its first general treatment. You have before you the draft amending budget for 2007 and the draft budget for 2008. Both proposals were formulated by the government during a relatively favourable macroeconomic environment. This is important due to the gradual reduction of the public financial deficit, which is the basis for ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances and a reliable and easy transition to the new euro currency. The favourable macroeconomic environment also allows faster implementation of structural measures in line with the Lisbon objectives, which will have a positive impact on future economic growth. In the proposals for amendments to the 2007 state budget and in the budgets of the municipalities, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and the Health Insurance Office for the same period, which constitute the so-called global public funding balance, a further reduction of the public financial deficit is foreseen by 25% compared to the budgets currently in place. This is said to be 0.9% of GDP, which is 0.3% less than in the 2007 adopted budget. In 2008, however, the government deficit is still falling to 0.8% of GDP, which is in line with the objective of the Stability and Growth Pact. If we add the final figures for 2005 and the latest estimates for 2006, we can provide an estimate of the expected average annual government deficit in this mandate, which is 0.97% of GDP, which is 44% lower than the average recorded by Slovenia in the previous government mandate, which was 1.73. Such an approach is very important for the further fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. Like any other full-fledged EU member, Slovenia must report twice a year on the deficit and debt situation in accordance with a single methodology, not on the basis of cash flows, as stated by our Public Finance Act, i.e. according to the principle of business events, the so-called ESA 95 methodology. These data are currently being verified by the European Commission and, among others, constitute the basis on which the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria for taking over the euro is assessed. In these 6-month reports it is necessary to report not only on the so-called 4 public treasury funds, which are the state budget, the budgets of the municipalities, the pension and disability insurance institutions and the Slovenian health insurance institution, but also on all the institutional units that make up the so-called state sector, that is, all public agencies, public institutions and public funds, including the Slovenian compensation company and the capital company. We currently have only annual data from 2000 onwards and an estimate for the current year 2006. Starting in 2000, this deficit represented 3.9% of GDP, in 2001 4.3%, then 2.5%, 2.8% in 2003 and in 2004 2.3%. Repeat, 3.9%, 4.3%, 2.5%, 2.8%, then 2.3%. In the first year of this government mandate 2005, this deficit was 1.4% of GDP. As we have already reported to this National Assembly and recently to the European Commission, we expect that this global deficit of the whole country, as demonstrated by the ESA-95 methodology, will in no way exceed 1.7% of GDP in the current year 2006. Therefore, the annual average of the country's sector deficit in this broadest range is 1.55% of GDP in this mandate, representing only 49% of the 2000-2004 annual average of 3.16% of GDP. These are verified data with which Slovenia performs and is also assessed in the external world. These are positive developments in this mandate, obvious and indisputable, and are certainly also present in the estimates of respondents included by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in its economic climate indicator in Slovenia, which has not reached such a level since the beginning of March 1996 as in September 2006. Yes [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The value of the economic climate indicator in Slovenia was 12 points higher than last September and 15 points above the long-term average. [[...]] However, in the next two years it does not only reduce deficits. In line with the announced reforms, the government proposes to reduce taxes for citizens and citizens and for businesses. The share of tax revenues as a percentage of GDP will be reduced by 1.1% of GDP in the following year and by 0.5% of GDP in 2008. This represents an important step in decommissioning the economy. As a result of tax reductions, total government revenue in GDP is also falling by 0.5% of GDP in 2007 and 0.7% of GDP in 2008. The share of consolidated public financial expenditure in GDP is also decreasing. The consolidated public financial expenditure, which includes expenditure financed by European funds, will on average decrease by 0.8% of GDP over the next two years to the estimated level in 2006. This means that consolidated public spending will decrease by as much as 1.6% of GDP over the next two years. During the last four-year government mandate, consolidated government expenditure without payment of funds to the EU budget reached an average of 43.8% of GDP. First and third years 44% and second and fourth years 43.6. In these draft budgets, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plans to reduce this share to 41.9 or 1.9% of GDP, lower public spending compared to the average of the previous period. The budget proposal for the next two years preserves macroeconomic stability, which is important for the period when we introduce the euro. The government's priorities are clear and include: firstly, the implementation of a tax reform that relieves both the economy and individuals, creates conditions for increasing the competitiveness of the economy, promotes restructuring of businesses with the aim of increasing business efficiency, improves the business environment by simplifying the tax system and ensures sociality, marketability. Secondly, a shift in the work of public expenditure to the development programme will encourage faster economic growth and increase the competitiveness of the economy. Thirdly, increasing employment opportunities while maintaining the necessary levels of social security. Fourthly, improving environmental protection and quality of life and fifthly, enhancing the efficiency of the public sector and the development of entrepreneurship of a more favoured country. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to make a few words of tax reform. Significant changes in tax legislation were already adopted last year, namely the gradual abolition of the tax on paid wages and the introduction of cedularity in the taxation of dividends, capital gains and interest. The introduction of cedual taxation or taxation of dividends, interest and capital gains with a definitive tax, as also known by some Scandinavian countries, was aimed at reducing taxation and, consequently, preventing capital movements to other countries. The proposal for current tax changes is to continue to relieve the economy and increase its competitiveness. Continue phasing out the tax on paid salaries. In addition to the undisputed decommissioning of the economy already in the current year 2006, it represents an additional burden of 39 billion dollars in 2007, 73.8 billion dollars in 2008 and 113 billion dollars in 2009 when the law is completely repealed. I would like to point out that the budget revenue from this tax amounted to 1.8% of gross domestic product in 2005 and that it will be 0.6% in 2008 and no more in 2009. Changes in income include reducing over-progress and increased overall relief and thus lower taxation of citizens and citizens; the possibility of reducing labour costs through agreements between social partners, clearer definitions of the tax base, simplification also by eliminating some of the nonsense that is difficult to administer, and having relatively small fiscal effects. I would like to stress the following with regard to the reduction in progress. The proposal for a Income Act reduces the tax burden on all and thus represents the greatest incentive for a more productive and creative part of the working population. The extremely high existing level of income progression is unsustainable and completely inconsistent with the strategy for the development of Slovenia in the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the vast majority of experts. Changes in corporate income tax mean decommissioning, elimination of double taxation and simplification of tax collection. The tax rate is proposed at 20% and we will gradually reach it by 2010 at the latest. Economic double taxation is eliminated when certain incomes, for example, are taxed both on income and on corporate income tax. The tax base is adapted to the accounting rules, which allows for a greater degree of efficiency in implementation. The financial impact of these changes will arise in the implementation of the budget in 2008, as it is estimated for the 2007 tax account, which will actually be known in the first half of 2008, at an estimated level of 20 billion tolars, which of course means an additional burden on the economy. With the new tax procedure law, we will significantly simplify the procedure and thereby reduce the administrative work of both natural persons and businesses and tax administrations. This also lays the foundations for the introduction of a different business culture in the tax administration itself, towards all those who are committed and towards the development of entrepreneurship. The proposed law on the implementation of the budget does not include any change in the rates of value added tax. When we proposed to the National Assembly last year that the tax on paid salaries should be phased out, we announced any changes in VAT rates, but only if the calculations, when preparing the amending budget for 2007, showed the inevitable need to increase these rates. The fact is that both the implementation of the 2006 budget and the implementation of the applicable tax legislation adopted in the first half of 2004 and partly amended in December 2004 and also in December 2005 have clearly demonstrated that there is no need for any change in VAT rates for 2007. With regard to the possible increase in the value added tax rate in 2008, the general rates from 20% to 21% and the reduced rates from 8 and a half to 9, I would like to stress the following. Before any proposal to amend and supplement the law on the implementation of the 2008 budget, the Government will, within a year, carefully examine the assessments of possible changes under the expected macroeconomic scenario, re-examine the expected effects of reducing public spending on the basis of the legislation just adopted and the expected effects of additional legislative changes currently in preparation, and any other options to provide sufficient funding in 2008. This is the path envisaged from the outset in the VAT law to change rates within a certain limit of 15 percentage points. And that's exactly what the government did in 2002, when it proposed raising VAT rates from 19 to 20% and from 8 to 8 1/2. We believe that there are very good opportunities for such a proposal to raise VAT rates for 2008, as in the case of 2007, not to occur. On the basis of the calculations made by experts from the Institute for Economic Research of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, we can today ensure that the final effects of the proposed tax changes are positive for the economic race and the increase in investments, positive for the increase in employment and positive for the higher welfare of all income groups. Dear Members and Members. I would like to point out that the funds for the economy in the draft amending budget in 2007 are increasing by 2.1% in relation to the 2007 budget adopted. In 2008, however, it increased by 22.7%. Funding for the economy increases the most to increase competitiveness, stimulate foreign investment and promote a small economy. Thus, in the 2008 draft budget, the funds for the competitiveness programmes of the Ministry of the Economy increase by 35.3% in the light of the 2007 draft amending budget, amounting to 9.6 billion tolars. In this context, the funds will focus on economic development logistics centres as well as on infrastructures for technology transfer and the development of new enterprises. Entrepreneurship promotion funds increase by 18.7% in 2007 compared to the 2007 budget, and 57.3% in 2008 according to the 2007 budget changes. The aim of the increase is to make the economy more competitive. Funding for the 2007 Active Employment Policy Programme is projected at 21.1 billion in 2008, 25.5 billion, representing 19.7 increases in 2007 and 44.7% in 2008, with respect to the 2004 realisation. In addition to increasing employment, the Active Employment Policy Programme also has very important long-term objectives. A rise in education or the qualification level of the active population, a reduction in structural imbalances, which are expected to be reflected in the reduction in the proportion of long-term unemployed, about 40%, and in the proportion of unemployed unemployed, to about 25%, a reduction in regional labour market mismatches, ensuring the inclusion of all unemployed young people in employment programmes and the further development of the social partnership in the field of unemployment. In the field of science and technological development, funds have increased by more than 8% each year since 2004. Thus, the funds devoted to science and technological development will increase from 39 billion in 2004 to 59.1 billion in 2007 and then in 2008 by more than 62% of the points relative to 2004. Such funding for science and technological development is very important for achieving or increasing investment in research and development every year from public funds in line with the Lisbon objective, which is to provide it from public sources at least 1% of GDP for research and development by 2010. Currently, in Slovenia, R & D is investing 0.71% of GDP from public funds and the 2007 and 2008 draft budgets are geared towards achieving the target in 2010. In financing tertiary education, the 2007 and 2008 budgets maintain a favourable trend over the years. At the end of 2010, while maintaining the direction of development, we can achieve a target level of funding, which is 2% of GDP, of which 1.3% of GDP from public funds. Thus, 51 billion were allocated for tertiary education in 2005, 56 billion in 2006 and 59.5 billion for tertiary education in 2008 and 64.4 billion for tertiary education in 2008. The government has identified the resolution of judicial backlogs as a priority and has included them in the reform programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia and in the framework of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. The programme for the abolition of judicial arrears, the so-called Lukenda programme, includes all judicial bodies and certain other organisations, such as the Bar and Notary Chamber and the Board of Executives. It is based on three main actions, namely providing spatial conditions for the judiciary, additional provision and organisation of human resources, which means additional employment of judges and professional staff, and stimulating the award of judicial staff to remedy judicial backlogs. In addition to these measures, other measures in the field of education, information, organisation and governance and security in the field of justice are important. New employment is foreseen in the courts for the implementation of the programmes to remedy judicial backlogs. By the end of 2007, 120 new judges and 500 professional workers were to be recruited and the number of new employees was expected to increase by 50 judges and 250 professional workers in the following year. For the salaries of new employees, incentive awards and additional labour-related costs, additional funds are allocated to the courts in 2007 amounting to 3.3 billion dollars and in 2008 almost 4 billion. The Ministry of Justice also has additional means to provide working conditions for judicial authorities. Government priorities include economic policy for environmental protection or the implementation of individual economic instruments, such as emissions trading, financial guarantees for environmental protection purposes, joint investment in environmental protection projects, the introduction of an environmental sign and systemic environmental management of organisations. The main focus of funding is the implementation of the fundamental principle of environmental protection, which is the principle of payment for environmental burdens through individual economic instruments and environmental benefits, which represent an important source of funds. In the framework of the State budget, the funds planned under the area of environmental and natural heritage budgetary spending represent approximately 2.6% of all resources, or around 50.7 billion tolars are planned under the 2007 draft budget for these purposes. And according to the 2008 draft budget, $53.2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of key programmes and actions identified in the national environmental protection programme. Investment maintenance and construction of state roads is an area that the government pays special attention to and funds. In 2007, funds for this purpose will increase significantly by more than 120% compared to the 2004 implementation. On the basis of the realisation and planned resources for 2007 and 2008, we can ensure that the annual average of funds for this purpose will be more than 100% higher than the annual average for the period 2000-2005. The new Law on Community Financing has already been submitted to this National Assembly and radically changes the way the local government is financed. And while the basic elements of the current system are maintained, the appropriate consumption of municipalities, the revenue of municipalities to finance adequate spending and financial compensation, these elements are amended to comply with the principles of local self-government based on the constitutional arrangements in Slovenia and the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government to achieve two objectives: the appropriate relationship between the scope of financial resources and the extent to which certain tasks of municipalities are governed and the greater financial autonomy of municipalities. The municipalities will no longer depend on the share of income that has been accurately established only after the financial year has passed, but will know exactly how much State taxes they owe before the start of the year when they prepare their budgets. However, the annual law on the implementation of the budget will determine the proportion of these taxes in absolute amounts. In order to facilitate monitoring and consolidation in 2007 and 2008, we remained on the income side as a tax to which part of the country owes the municipalities. So the municipalities will know exactly what their tax and financial compensation resources will be, so the next year’s calculation will no longer be needed, which will certainly have a positive impact on community spending planning. The municipalities will continue to be entitled to additional resources from the State budget to co-finance the implementation of individual tasks or investment programmes and to jointly carry out the tasks of the municipal administration. Additional funds for investments in local public infrastructure will gradually increase from 3% of the eligible consumption of municipalities in 2007 and 2008 to 6% of the appropriate consumption in 2012. The new financial period of the European Union budget is starting in 2007. Slovenia has been allocated €3.7 billion from the Structural and Cohesion Fund for the period 2007-2013, three times more than average annually in the previous programming period 2004-2006. Making good project proposals will be crucial to the success of European funding, and the government can help to improve the speedy use of European funds, in particular by rescinding the drawing-up of these funds. According to the European Commission on EU funds drawback in 2005, Slovenia is among the most successful among the new Member States after the success of using these funds. In the last year, the most effective drawback of structural funds has been, and Slovenia is slightly less successful in using the cohesion fund and, in particular, from the Schengen resource. In spring 2005, the government adopted 32 decisions to improve the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. Estimates of revenue from the EU budget and payment of the European budget, accounting for the preparation of the 2007 revised budget and the 2008 budget and projections by 2011 were prepared on the basis of assessments of the December 2005 financial arrangements in Brussels with regard to the following financial perspective. In addition, the EU budget programming documents will be taken into account, i.e. the rural development programme and the national reference strategic framework. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget from the EU budget at the beginning of the next financial perspective 2007-2011 will on average be 1.56% of GDP per year and a total outflow of 1.13% of GDP. The net position of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis the EU budget for the period 2007-2011 will be 0.43% of GDP after this assessment. Dear Members and Members. The draft budget for 2007 and 2008 is an expression of the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to support monetary integration and improve the quality of public finances. At the same time, it is also an expression of the commitment that fiscal policy must contribute to speeding up the level of the more developed EU Member States. The process of gradual public financial consolidation, consistent with the changes to the Stability and Growth Pact, is continuing. The 2007 and 2008 budget proposals are in line with the medium-term target for the country's cyclically adjusted deficit, set at 1% of GDP at the end of 2008. Let me also mention that the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact has provided for the specificities of individual Member States to be taken into account in setting their medium-term objective. In setting the medium-term target for Slovenia for the period 2005 to 2008, a number of factors were taken into account, including the most important relatively low debt level of the country's wider sector in GDP, currently around 29.4%. With potential economic growth, which corresponds to our level of development in the grave, which is 3.7%. Slovenia, as a medium-sized country, intends to continue to face important priorities in order to ensure greater development potential, leaving the share of investments still above the 2.6% EU average, so that the medium-term target of 1% of GDP will be achieved gradually, which is fully in line with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. The already mentioned deficit of consolidated public finances in cash flows in accordance with Slovenian legislation of 0.8% of GDP is, in this context, the appropriate basis for the medium-term objective to date. Respectable. The long-term resolution of the structural deficit and the long-term sustainability of public finances in the context of the demographic realities of our country remain the biggest fiscal policy challenge. Surely the work is not finished yet, but we are on the right track to achieve all this as a society in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-09-SDZ4-Izredna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, for the additional presentation. This concludes the presentation of the 2007 and 2008 budget memorandum and the 2008 state budget proposal. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft state budget. Members, Members' groups and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including Thursday 19 October 2006. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
