ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! The time is running out, so we will begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the fact that the participation is still stuck. Between us, I welcome the representative and representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Before continuing, allow me to say that exactly 15 years ago the Republic Assembly adopted today a resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an extremely important act, but unfortunately only too often a list of unfulfilled promises and wishes. Five years later, on March 7th, we devoted ourselves to Maritime Day, so we should be even more aware that we are not only on the sunny side of the Alps, but mainly at the sea side of Triglav, which is not least evident from our coat of arms and our flag. Allow me, on this occasion, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to celebrate all the best and peaceful sailing for our sailors, as well as for all other maritime workers. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Polonca Dobrajc, Geza Juban, Victory Jelinčič Noble, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Darja Lovtišar Bebler from 2 p.m. on and Alojz Sok. We're moving on to 24. On behalf of the reports of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society for the current period of 24. May 2001 to 24. May 2005. The total time of the debate is 5 hours and 55 minutes. The report was submitted for consideration by the Slovenian compensation company. And I give the word "magic." Rini Klinar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, to file a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members and other Members present! The written report, which was unanimously adopted by the Supervisory Committee, was received and, therefore, only a few points were received in the introduction. And a few words after me will also be spoken by my successor, Mr Victor Robnik. The fundamental consideration of the establishment of the company was the settlement of the obligations of the vindicators under the law on denationalisation and other regulations. In addition to this task, the company carried out the other tasks laid down in the laws and the Supervisory Committee found that the company operated in denationalisation and in other areas within the framework of the rights and obligations conferred on it by the laws. Other national authorities are also involved in the implementation of the denationalisation tasks. In doing so, the Supervisory Committee noted, as already the Supervisory Board, that, despite the efforts of the Supervisory Board, the final amount of the obligations that the company will have to settle and the assessment is that the company will hand over EUR 818 million of bonds to the beneficiaries, which is the highest estimate. Taking into account the company’s legal obligations, the company’s resources will be sufficient to cover the obligations assessed by 2010. The estimated lack of resources should therefore be filled with careful and active management and not with the burden of taxpayers. And there is something else about the powers of the supervisory board of the Slovenian Compensation Society laid down in the 1993 Act. The authorities of the company and their powers shall lay down the law and the statutes of the company. The implementing bodies are the assembly, this is now the government, and the management board, which is the only one appointed and the managing authority is the director. The Supervisory Authority shall be the Supervisory Board, which does not have powers as a Supervisory Board, under the Companies Act. The Supervisory Board of the Company was composed of five members, each member of the Supervisory Board had one vote. On this occasion, I must stress the right and professional cooperation with members or members. Last December, the late Aloise Metelka, Tomáž Toplak, Marjetko Gabršček Golež and Master Janez Pušnik. During the time I chaired the Supervisory Board, two Administrative Committees and five Directors acted. At its 14th meeting, the Supervisory Committee adopted 60 decisions, of which 59 unanimously. Among other things, the Supervisory Board carried out a random review of matters relating to denationalisation, victims of war and post-war violence, and management of capital investments. At the initiative of the Supervisory Board, the Governing Board adopted a regulation on procedures for the sale of capital investments and a regulation on investments in cash. The Supervisory Committee also considered the expert opinion on the content and method of monitoring the company's legality and financial performance by the Supervisory Board. It is important to note that the Management Board is the body of the company representing the Supervisory Board, while the Supervisory Board is a more external body of the company. In view of the above, the Supervisory Committee considered that, within its competence, it had made a substantial contribution to the legality of the company's work. However, internal audits, the external audit house and the Court of Auditors also carried out supervision of the company’s work. Their opinions were positive. On the basis of what I have written down and said, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt this report and further guidance for the continuation of the fundamental work of the company, and thank you for your attention. I propose that Mr Viktor Robnik, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board, make some additional points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Robnik for the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I took the floor for this pay phone in particular with the aim of getting to know me, see, I will inherit Mrs Klinar's in character and of your will as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society. In fact, I have nothing to add to the report itself, and I have interpreted it in my own way on the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the Commission. I must say that it is quite quality-made, including the conclusions of this commission, I think they are going in this direction, such as to detect the intensity of the report itself. However, I would like to say that some things will also need to be taken into account in the future, particularly in the role of the Supervisory Committee and, of course, the continuation of these problems, which have been ongoing since 2001 alone. Thank you very much. I'm still available for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The report also addressed the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances as a parent working body and prepared proposals for conclusions. I'm asking the President of the High School Master to file a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Mr President, Members, Members, representatives of the SOD, both the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, a good day to all. At its 14th regular meeting in November 2005, the Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance considered this report as its parent work body, a report by the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. This is the first report for which the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances in this National Assembly has at any time decided to consider it at its meeting and then, of course, to propose this debate today. I think that's good. This is because the Slovenian compensation company is, according to its content, a public fund and that the government deficit or the lack of funds over the company's obligations is ultimately the responsibility of the state. That is why, of course, I have also proposed the consideration of this report by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, because the inadequate activities of the company could increase the public financial deficit or the public debt of the State resulting from the determinations, in the early years or in the first years of our autonomy on how to recover denationalised property. At the meeting itself, representatives of the company, the new Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, the Director and the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board said that it was a report of the previous mandate, that they could not comment on it in more detail, so we focused in the debate on what the management strategy of the assets the company had at its disposal would be. At the end of the year, the company had a conservative estimate of 146 billion tolars. By the end of 2005, this asset had grown to 127 billion. At the same time, the company has around 100 billion more obligations towards denationalisation and other beneficiaries. It is crucial that the report clearly states that, as long as trends of the past period continue, the company will then run out of funds around 2010 and the company has obligations under the law by 2016. The key points on the Commission were that the members felt that it was not possible to sell the assets with which the company had the resources and then to come to the country and demand money from the budget, but it was necessary to maximize the value of the assets. In doing so, it is good that the company’s investments are assessed on the basis of the applicable rules by conservative method, while the obligations which are not yet fully known are listed in the works according to the maximum assessment, where the key question is, of course, how much of the return on assets should be made in nature and how much in bonds. Indeed, some members of the Commission felt that, although it was best for the company's obligations to return property in nature, if we return a movable intended for public use, then it was necessary to build a replacement facility through the state budget, which could cost us more than the bonds that the denationalising beneficiaries would receive. In this regard, we have paid particular attention to the issue of the need to act in accordance with all laws and in particular the company's statutes when returning property to work in accordance with the laws and regulations. At the end of our consideration of the report, we have adopted a decision, proposing three conclusions for today's meeting of the National Assembly. If I summarize them briefly, the main purpose of the conclusions is to: firstly, the National Assembly should propose to the Slovenian Compensation Society that, given that the report shows that the estimated value of the company’s assets is sufficient to cover long-term obligations only until 2010, instead of 2016, the company authorities should therefore act as a good owner in the management and possible sales of assets and take into account all applicable rules. Another time. The assembly was to propose to the company that it should cover its obligations primarily from the assets arising from the management of the assets acquired in the property process rather than from taxpayers, so that the Assembly and the Management Board of the Society, the Assembly, should prepare a revised strategy for the operation of the company and measures by which they would ensure the long-term fulfilment of the company's obligations. Such a strategy is to be notified by the Assembly and the Management Committee of the Society to the National Assembly. I propose that the conclusions presented below be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. As is usually followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr William Rezman first to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Let me begin by expressing my conviction that we are in some way privileged, because we can be modernists to radical changes in our society, to the changes that speak about, in other words, the exploitation of something that has been in force for years before or otherwise, we are, in some ways, contemporarys of the new Slovenian revolution which concerns the economic system, the political system, as regards social systems and also as regards the property structures of our society. The Slovenian Compensation Society is one of the key players in this area. Therefore, it may not always be uniform, or at least in the same direction, an assessment of how, when and or precisely to act, and this may also be demonstrated through the debate announced today and shows, at least after the forecast time, that it will be relatively long, perhaps not. What will be the attitude towards the work of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the report that we have had the opportunity to learn from it will probably depend on the various things, on what political orientations and ambitions we have, on how we assess the various functions that the Slovenian Compensation Society has performed, on how we assess its effectiveness, and also on what kind of relationship we have established with the foundation of the Slovenian Compensation Society to the problem of asset recovery. This is where everything that is built up comes from. The report that we have received and adopted by the Supervisory Committee actually has more or less one financial accounting dimension, and we know that our day-to-day situation may even be more challenging in relation to other functions that are not recorded in these reports. In particular, those functions which are being more thoroughly processed in relation to the Slovenian Compensation Society, the Coalition Treaty, as well as the framework for reforms, and which discuss the need for the Slovenian Compensation Society and its staff to step out of the Slovenian economy, to turn into a portfolio investor and to remain less and less in the service of the government staff, will probably be discussed at some other time and on other occasions more. We are assessing ourselves in the DeSUS Group, because it is a report prepared by the Supervisory Committee that it is systematically and correctly prepared that it is such that it speaks only of the good, rational and economic performance of the Slovenian Compensation Society, so the assessment is such that it can actually say that it is almost without reservations. I guess everything wasn't that good, but the general assessment is positive. The evaluation prepared by the Supervisory Committee also followed the proposals of the conclusions of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and we support this in the DeSUS Group. By the way, I would like to mention only our response to the ambition and, in fact, the obligation of the state to fill the gap with assets, that we have concerns about one proposed way, namely the way in which the Slovenian Housing Fund is supposed to be a commercially unnecessary asset of a country, one part of which is 10%, should later be allocated to the Slovenian compensation company. This is not the best way, according to our assessment, and we will probably oppose it. Otherwise, it is our view that the State must indeed ensure that the gap is filled and that the taxpayers or the budget do not directly cover the missing funds that we need to provide by 2016. So, we will vote in favour of the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. Today I am considering a report on the work of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which expired on 25 May 2005. Until the date of election of the new members to the Supervisory Committee of the Court of Auditors in the current reference to the National Assembly in May 2005, the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society, under the leadership of its Chairman, mags. Rine Klinar did not submit any report on his work to the National Assembly. The report under consideration covers a four-year period and was issued 5 months after the expiry of the mandate. It has been proposed by the new management of the Slovenian Indemnity Society and signed by former President Rina Klinar. According to Article 20 of the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, the Supervisory Board should report at least once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the functioning of the Slovenian Indemnity Society.For 2001 and 2002 the annual business reports for both years were submitted jointly to the National Assembly by its Director, Master Igor Kušar. They would have been published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly. No report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Slovenian Indemnity Society for 2003. Therefore, it is clear that the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society in its previous composition did not fulfil its obligations to the National Assembly and that the previous leadership of the National Assembly did not pay any attention to this. Before I speak about the very content of the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society of the previous term of office relating to the entire four-year period, I would like to draw attention to the position or function assigned to that body of the Slovenian Indemnity Society by law and statute, or to the understanding of this function. In addition to the Director and the Administrative Committee and the Assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society, which have the function of administrative authorities under corporate law, the Slovenian Compensation Society has an additional body, the Supervisory Board as the body designated by the National Assembly and to exercise control over the legality of work and financial operations. It follows from the conclusions of Mrs Klinareva that during the previous term, the Supervisory Committee actually questioned its role and that this role was sought by the legal service of the compensation company itself, which told him that the Supervisory Committee should not belong not to the management bodies of the Slovenian Compensation Society, but to the external body of the company. In our view, the role of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society is no more appropriate after this explanation. The report, which is considered to be the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, covers a large part of the content of the annual report of the Slovenian Indemnity Company for 2004, which was prepared by the administration of SOD and is available on the website of the Slovenian Indemnification Company. As a contribution by the Supervisory Committee to this report, its conclusions should be considered in particular. In it, the SOD Supervisory Committee noted that in four years it had held 13 extraordinary meetings and one correspondence meeting, where it was currently familiar with the issues and issues addressed by the Board of Directors, as well as the evaluation of the company’s financial statements in the shorter periods. As part of its supervisory function, it carried out a random review of matters relating to denationalisation, victims of war and post-war violence, and management of capital investments. Nevertheless, the Supervisory Committee, led by Mrs Klinareva, found in the conclusions of this report that it had made a substantial contribution to the legality of the work of the SOD. However, he did not explain how he played a creative role in order to be judged in the national assembly. I therefore hope that the Supervisory Board, in its new composition, will at least take into account the legislative provisions and report to the National Assembly in its work. It is known that the Slovenian compensation company, as well as the capital company, received 10% of the capital in the ownership, conversion process. 1200 former social enterprises. In 2000, the SOD had its shares only in 460 companies. This share decreased to 177 companies from 2001 to 2004. The decrease in the number of shares was due to sales and exchange of shares. Of the 177 investments at the end of 2004, 13% were listed on the stock exchange, representing as much as 85% of the total investment of the Slovenian Indemnity Company. The information that the Slovenian Compensation Society has the majority of its investments in listed companies is positive, since in general it is considered more transparent for listed companies than others, even though these shares are managed through the Ljubljana Stock Exchange today, unfortunately only a good quarter of the trade. Everything else by trading packages or their registration on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange or even through a passive market. The question is, under what conditions was this concentration of shares of the Slovenian Compensation Society taking place. How did the SOD sell and change its shares, at what prices or not? In how many cases the management of the Slovenian Indemnity Company has sold to them the exchange of shares through public offerings. These are issues which, in our view, should be primarily reported to the National Assembly by the Supervisory Committee. Unfortunately, there is no information on this report. It is only information as to how many sales contracts were signed between 2001 and 2004. Under what conditions the Slovenian Compensation Company sells and changes its shares, it also depends on the amount of the potential deficit it draws attention to. The shortfall in the payment of bonds from the Slovenian Compensation Society depends not only on the level of the obligation, but also on the quality of investment management. The specific issue raises information in the 2004 annual report of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, which is not transferred to the report of the SOD Supervisory Committee, namely that the value of the capital investment sales in 2004 was agreed on a deferred payment period. As a result, capital revenues were 660 % lower than in 2003, as the Slovenian Indemnity Company’s capital gains from the sale of fixed-term investments can be shown or books only when they are purchased, paid and the investment is recorded in the balance sheet of the Slovenian Indemnity Company. The question is whether the decisions of the Slovenian Compensation Company on the sale of interest payments were economical and how much of these sales were made and for what value and what kind of companies were they made, what was their objective. The report of the Supervisory Board shall give no information on this. In a report by the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, however, it noted that there are also increasing numbers of those for whom it is difficult to find a buyer, since these are companies that do not contribute to the growth of the value of the SOD property, but even lower it. In particular, the report draws attention to investments in textile companies. The 2004 annual report of the Slovenian Indemnity Company states that in 2004 it was carried out in accordance with the valuation standards for 27 investments in a total amount of 840 million, four companies in bankruptcy for 202 million tolars and nine capital investments for 249 million tolars because the market values were lower than the accounting values. Thus, together in 2004, the value of investments or assets of the Slovenian Indemnity Company was reduced by almost 1.3 billion tolars, which is certainly not a negligible amount. Therefore, it is legitimate to ask whether the previous administration of the Slovenian Indemnity Company has actually successfully carried out investments in the ownership of the Slovenian Indemnity Company. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we hope that the relevant and further management of the investment of the Slovenian Indemnity Society will be adequately addressed by the expert group appointed by the government within the KAD and SOD project groups and directed by Minister for Development, Dr Jože P. Damian. However, a special warning to this National Assembly shall apply to the tasks performed by the DGS in the role of insurance guardian or in relation to the property transformation of insurance undertakings. It is known that the administration of the SOD is under the guidance of the Magi. Igor Kušar in cooperation with the current leadership of the Insurance Office Triglav d.d. the purchase of its valuation under special conditions, which resulted in the fact that in early 2001 the value of the insurance company was estimated at 2 times lower, 60 billion instead of 120 billion tolars. If the current Ministry of Finance did not pay sufficient attention to this issue, private legal persons who have the right under the law to own the Triglav Insurance Company would come to a large amount of property at the expense of the state budget that belongs to the purchase. However, the lower value was also the share of the Slovenian Compensation Company in the Insurance Company Triglav. Mr Pogačnik, Director of SOD, spoke about these 20s at yesterday's press conference. In its report, the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society points out that after 12 years of nationalisation, the obligations of the Slovenian Indemnity Society under this Title have not yet been completed. We also share this concern with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The fact is that the 12-year period in which LDS-led governments have failed or wanted to complete denationalisation is far too long. The financial implications of slow decision-making in denationalisation procedures shall not be reported by the SOD Supervisory Committee. However, the fact is that the deficit to cover only denationalisation claims can also be increased due to their slow implementation. The representative of the administration of the Slovenian Compensation Society shall be at the time of the assessment of the deficit or the gap of approx. At a meeting of the Commission on Accounting Control and other public finances, 50 billion pointed out that the investments of the Court of Justice were assessed by conservative method and obligations following a maximum assessment, and it is not yet possible to judge the amount of the deficit or to demand the immediate resolution of the issues referred to in this Title. However, it is necessary to speed up the procedures for the implementation of denationalisation and this objective is also aimed at the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted at the proposal of the Ministry of Justice in the past week. The Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society in the previous mandate 2001-2005, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democrats Group in relation to the National Assembly, which it appointed, is certainly not entirely satisfactory in carrying out its tasks. He did not report annually to the National Assembly on his work, the report he submitted in the previous term does not provide information on the work of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, but mainly summarises the content of the annual report on the operation of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for 2004 prepared by the Administration of the SOD and can be read on the web pages of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Again, I invite you to the word "magic." Exercise, this time as a representative of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Mr President, Members and Members, representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society and, of course, I hope at least in the spirit of the present representatives of the government. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the report and the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society are important because the company is a very important factor in Slovenian public finances and the government's performance is one of the key factors in the Slovenian economy. As a result of its inadequate activity, or in the management of assets, the government deficit or public debt of the State may be increased. We regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in any emerging form, or its President, who is the President of the Slovenian Association of Indemnity, or in the form of a Minister of Finance who, at the final stage of the Government, will have to propose how this hole will be closed, or whether the newly appointed Minister for the Monitoring and Guidance of the Slovenian Development Strategy, Mr Damian, has decided not to attend today's report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, even though it is clear from the report that this government has a great task ahead of it. On page 67, the rapporteur shows how big a hole will be by the time of the end of payment of the bonds issued - up to EUR 600 million, up to EUR 150 billion. That is why, of course, we regret in the Liberal Democracy Club, that not Mr Janša, not Mr Bajuk, nor Mr Damian have decided not to come to the National Assembly either as a participation in the debate, the government could apply for a debate or at least listen to what the highest legislative body has to say about the issues of covering the deficit of the Slovenian Compensation Society. It is known that the balance sheet of the Slovenian Indemnity Society is the result of the decisions of this National Assembly in connection with the denationalisation law without the ceiling or the volume of the bonds issued, as all other transition countries have done, all other transition countries have limited the volume of bonds issued somewhere to EUR million, only Slovenia has decided not to do so, but at the time of privatisation the then government has, of course, provided and reserved for this 10% of the value of the assets, and this is today with all the obligations already paid still after the latest figures of over 172 billion. We believe that it is important to deal with this issue because it is clear from the Supervisory Committee that the company to cover the liabilities will sell the assets by 2010 and then will run out of funds. Of course, we must say that, as far as you can see the previous reports, and this National Assembly has a report for 2001, it has a report for 2002, but, as today, Mr Andrej Bayuk, in another function, in the role of the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, did not consider it necessary for the Commission responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances to deal with the issue of deficit or potential deficit. I am therefore, of course, pleased that a joint report on the previous mandate has come after the conclusion of the mandate of the Supervisory Committee and that we are considering this today. These reports show that, in fact, the more you go into the past, the shorter the time, or the earlier it is expected to run out of these funds. A few years ago, it was estimated that the funds would run out by 2005, 2006, but due mainly to good capital market developments and some successful sales of major capital investments, which, of course, launched the Slovenian capital market, the value of assets increased significantly only in 2005 compared to 2004 by over 30 billion, is estimated to be almost 30 billion, and therefore, today, it is estimated that the volume of money running out or assets will run out sometime in 2010. We know that the bonds are currently issued in such a way that they are expected to reach somewhere by 2016, and the key question is, of course, what is the direction of the executive branch, what is the direction of the legislative authority and how it participates in the return of assets to denationalising beneficiaries. And then in the final instance, when it's impossible to return in nature, it becomes a bond and has to issue bonds. If the scope of the so-called necessary means for the recovery of denationalisation beneficiaries, or in nature, is to be increased, or at the end of the denationalisation process, and in particular if it is in bonds, then of course the money will run out. It is clear to us that the representatives of the SOD cannot, or cannot, respond to, how they will ensure that all the obligations to be met by the State are to be met, that we ultimately have a constitutional court decision on this, and that, of course, we are even more sorry that there is no executive authority here today to tell us how it intends to establish conditions during its term so that an additional debt of EUR 600 million would not arise for 150 billion. Perhaps because these numbers will somehow be realized in the next term, our governments are simply not interested in this mandate. I think that today, in particular, we should have a discussion on this with the representatives of the SOD, with the representatives of the SOD Assembly, the SOD Assembly is the government, on how to better manage the assets in order to ensure that good asset management is covered. We note that obviously the representatives of the SOD are not the right addressees at all, nor the issue of the SOD's asset, are claimed assets, nor is the question of passiveness. On the question of passiveness, we have a competent minister, Mr Šturm, who is still not here today, although half of the report is actually on the procedures for returning denationalising beneficiaries, nor is Mr Damian here, who is clearly becoming, given the framework of economic, social reforms, so some of the coalition have also said, who will prepare the concept, the timetable for a transparent and gradual withdrawal of the SOD from the country. The gradual, transparent withdrawal of the SOD from the country means, of course, a very important impact on the balance sheet of the SOD and it is unfortunate that the Ministers have decided not to be interested in what we think in the National Assembly. The only thing we can see from the economic reform framework is that they say that the question of transforming the SOD is a key issue of transforming the portfolio and the question of a new organisational structure. We've known this for about 15 years. We therefore estimate that the government itself, the true SOD Assembly today does not know what its strategy is, so the Commission has proposed and I hope that this decision will be supported by the government to explain this strategy to us as a SOD Assembly. We are not dealing with the issue of all public financial strategies, because this is what the government says in its budgetary memorandums, but on the issue of the SOD Assembly, the SOD is established on the basis of the law adopted in this National Assembly, the Supervisory Committee reports to the National Assembly, and it would be correct that the Assembly, the government, should tell what it intends to do. While it is clear that the representatives of the SOD do not have, or at least it is not clear what the government is strategically directing them to, it is clear from just a few examples. I'll bring up three cases. One well-known example of Mercator, where the SOD, together with KAD, decided not to maximize the value of the assets and instead to reduce this hole by about 140.150 billion by 10% only with better sales of Mercator's business, could reduce this hole by about 14.15 billion, decided to sell the case to friendly investors after what was practically some low estimated value. A similar story decided by the SOD is the story of Mercury, a very similar story. The SOD has an investment in Mercury. He says that Mercury does not need to be recapitalised and you can imagine how Mercury will compete with others in the Slovenian and South-East markets if it does not recapitalise. This will only reduce the value of the shares and the value of the assets of the SOD. However, it is obviously more important to control mountain troikas, peters, than to maximize the value of property for Slovenian taxpayers. And you have the latest case in today's Finances. Spark, the potential takeover of Spark, because in the case of Sparkle with all the problems you've seen that the premium is over 30%, not the premium as it could have been achieved at Mercator, even in this premium, it's not clear what the SOD will do, what the CAD will do. Therefore, even though the assets of the Slovenian Indemnity Company are estimated at 172 billion on the last day of last year following conservative estimates, we believe that it would be possible to manage assets well, by refinance obligations, without the government as a assembly coming to the National Assembly and saying, in the 2009 budget, 2010 and 2012, we need to provide 10, 15, 20 billion transfers to the SOD, we believe that this gap could be closed. Of course, however, the congregation must tell us more about this. The current forecast is only that the SOD will sell 60 capital investments already this year. And it is clear that without its own strategy, because the company did not accept it, a company that does not have a very clear role in the Slovenian economy will either sell these capital investments at a price or simply trade them with the Capital Society. With the Capital Society, the content story is very similar. It must also maximize assets in order to reduce the potential hole in the pension register. We believe that it is necessary to discuss very closely the strategy for the functioning of society, so we will support the proposed conclusions. We believe that it is necessary to insist on the requirement that the company cover its obligations primarily from the assets resulting from the management of the assets acquired in the property ownership process rather than from taxpayers. Therefore, the Assembly and the Management Board of the Company must prepare, take into account the framework of economic reforms, the revised strategy and measures to ensure that the company fulfils its obligations in the long term. Such a strategy must be notified by the Assembly and the Management Board of the Society to the National Assembly, both on the basis of the Act on the Slovenian Compensation Fund, later transformed into the Slovenian Compensation Society, and on the basis of the Law on Public Finances. Finally, I regret once again that the representatives of the executive, the Minister for Finance, Mr Damian and the President of the Slovenian Compensation Society Assembly, Mr Janez Janša, have not taken the opportunity today to tell the Slovenian public how they intend to close a hole of more than 600 million euros. If they intend to sell property, as they did in the Mercator case, they do a poor service to Slovenian taxpayers, break a number of laws and create great negative pressure on Slovenian public debt. We will support the proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to the word of Mr Kumer, on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the SOD, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the prepared report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, although we believe that the part of the report that speaks of the management and management of the assets of the company is not fully transparent in this report; while the report is qualitative and appropriate in the findings of the denationalisation procedures. However, despite the announcement in the introduction to this report that the report also contains a proposal for further activities or possible measures to resolve the expected state of society, this is not to be seen. However, the report is sufficiently convincing and in a credible way reflects the situation and problems within the Slovenian Compensation Society. The main and most important observation and the fact in this report is that the estimated value of the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Company will not be sufficient to cover all the long-term obligations owed to the Slovenian Compensation Company to the beneficiaries. And as stated, these funds are sufficient to cover commitments only until 2010. So we already know today that the Slovenian Compensation Society can or will also be one of the largest holes in Slovenian public finances. In fact, in the introduction and then in the special chapter, it is stated that, on the basis of the assets acquired and managed by the company at the end of 2005, at the end of 2005, the resources of 146 billion were available - but, of course, the correction made by colleagues Swickl was an additional 30 billion, and this is clearly the case in the press error report - and based on assessments and simulations it is possible to predict that the company's obligations would amount to EUR 818 million. In short, we already know today that there will be a considerable lack of resources to repay all the obligations imposed on society. And here the government and its President, as President of the SOD Assembly, has yet another challenging and responsible task, including with regard to what has already been said today, the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. And that is why it is still very controversial how the Slovenian compensation company will manage the company's assets or financial transactions in the future. I mentioned earlier that the company itself notes in this report that the available resources will not be sufficient to cover all the obligations until 2016. In this report, the company itself wrote on the 23rd page, and I quote, "as the company's assets are mainly made up of investments whose value is largely subject to the legality of the capital market, it is likely that, in the event of the accelerated sale of these assets due to the need for liquidity assets, the company could suffer significant losses depending on their book value or market value. This would mean that the problem of insufficient assets to cover obligations would have arisen earlier." And, of course, in the Group of Social Democrats, with this assessment in this report, we agree in some way. It is, of course, even more opportunistic to discuss the future of the Slovenian Compensation Society today in this report and, above all, to discuss the future of the Slovenian Compensation Society, because it is not possible to agree today that the burden will be passed on to taxpayers or to the Slovenian budget, regardless of what the Ombudsman of the Slovenian Compensation Society will do today. First, it is necessary to manage assets wisely, economically and in the national interest. The model of management and management of this property, which we have witnessed in the last year and not only in the last year, even in previous years, does not speak in this sense. Much has been said about this booth today. Overstatement of powers, post-festum validation of transactions concluded by the Management Board and so on. are things that prove that the most responsible in society are not and do not comply with their own rules of the game: the company's statute, the company's rules of procedure on the sale of capital investments and other laws such as the Public Finance Act, the takeover law, etc. Today the last three cases were listed for this booth, but I don't think they're the only ones. In short, the basic message of today's session in this report should be that this way of carrying out the company does not promise anything good. The excuses for past years do not apply here, because we are witnessing today in this National Assembly, that the story continues in 2005 and even in 2006. The cash flow plan itself, as shown on page 27 of this report, requires some strategic reflection and a plan on how to manage and cover commitments not only by 2010, but also by 2016. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats, we would be more pleased if we had today - or at least expected in the near future - a strategy for the functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society and a business project and the fulfilment of legal obligations by 2016. And this is a priority for both management and the board of directors, as well as the Slovenian Compensation Society Assembly, this is the government. We therefore support the draft conclusions drawn up by the Commission for Budgetary Control in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Mikolić to present the position of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Well-welcome, presidents, representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the report of the former Supervisory Committee on the functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society within their mandate. The report concerns the mandate period from 24 May 2001 to 24 May 2005, and we have also focused on this in our Group. We know that the Slovenian Indemnity Society or Fund, as originally called, was established by law that provided for the Fund to settle obligations to beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act and the Cooperatives and Other Rules Act to regulate denationalisation assets. That it is a share company to manage and dispose of securities and other funds obtained in accordance with the laws by fulfilling the obligations laid down in the law. That funds to cover liabilities under issued bonds shall be formed on the basis of the management and disposal of securities and other funds obtained under the law on corporate property conversion, from the part of the purchases obtained from the sale of social dwellings, from the total purchase of maintained dwellings, when there were no beneficiaries, from the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and from other sources specified by law. The law required the company or the fund to provide adequate return and liquidity in the management of investments in order to discharge its obligations. The company acquired the majority of the assets for the settlement of obligations on the basis of the rules on the property conversion of companies and other investments on the basis of the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, on the basis of the property conversion of insurance undertakings, on the basis of a judicial settlement with the Republic of Slovenia and on the basis of the company’s investment activities. The report shows that it imposes the greatest obligation on the company to act on denationalisation, where it is a primary undertaking to make compensation in cases where the return of held property in nature due to legal and actual obstacles would not be possible or where the law provides for such compensation on the basis of the choice of the beneficiary or where the law specifically provides for such compensation. It is clear from the textual part of the report that the company cooperated intensively as a debtor, a party to the denationalisation process. For a four-year mandate period, activities are described and the main objective of which work in this area has been subordinated in a given year. The statement that the company has been making every individual case a special effort to substantiate the claims and to determine precisely and consistently the amount of compensation in the bonds belonging to the beneficiary is positive. We also believe that this was a difficult, difficult and delayed work, the latter, in particular, as stated in the report, due to the lack of documentation received from the authority that led the procedure. However, it will be in the eyes or in the ears of a sentence, which states that, despite the 13th year of implementation of the Denationalisation Act, at the end of the mandate to which the report relates, the company still receives from the authorities insufficient claims or even requests to be rejected. Since the denationalisation process at the time of the report was already in the phase at which the return of property in nature was becoming less and more claims for compensation in bonds, the compatibility between the authorities of the procedure and the Slovenian Compensation Society in the New Slovenia Group was particularly disturbing. It is certainly unacceptable for some to write in a four-year report the company's findings, which states that the authorities in charge of the proceedings could only accelerate them in such a way as not to send them to the company in order to define the valuations or calculations that are not at all prepared in accordance with the methodology prescribed. This is certainly not acceptable to denationalising beneficiaries, nor has it justified them that only 24% of the company’s representatives participated in oral hearings throughout Slovenia due to human resources problems. The parties to the pre-decision procedure may comment on the report prepared by the authority conducting the procedure, but as we know, the body is not bound by those comments. Reports shall not be drawn up in proceedings conducted at the first stage by ministries or courts. In 2004, the company had written comments in 67.14% of all reports. It would be interesting to know where the administrative unit has accepted the comments and which is not indicated in the reports or tables. A major project is certainly the introduction in 2004 of a computer programme of regulations, which represents an important mechanism for the establishment of databases related to denationalisation. The report shows that during the period 2001 to the end of 2004, the company carried out obligations under the new housing law as well as the findings under Article 125 of the old Housing Act 1991. Also compensation for confiscated property for the abolition of penalties, confiscation of property as well as compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. After 2003, the company also initiated activities related to the implementation of the insurance business ownership procedure for the benefit of private legal persons. The report shows that during the four-year period the company was currently fulfilling its obligations under the law. The balance sheet value of the company’s assets at the end of 2004 amounted to 146 billion tolars. The largest part of this asset, the value is 97.3 billion tolars, represent capital investments in shares, in the shares of enterprises, banks and other financial institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Capital investments decreased year after year as a result of sales and changes in capital investments, and partly due to the completion of bankruptcy and liquidity procedures of certain companies. Therefore, in the report, the Supervisory Committee recalls the danger that the company will be able to settle its obligations within the envisaged scope and deadlines, in particular on the basis of the legal denationalisation decisions taken between 2005 and 2016. After 12 years of operation of the company, i.e. at the end of 2004, the definitive amount of the obligation that the company will have to settle is not yet known. The company thus merely estimates that the liabilities will amount to around €818 million. We also believe in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party that society has to settle its obligations with assets arising from ownership and should be primarily dedicated to denationalisation in order to avoid the burden of taxpayers. The expected gap between commitments and assets after 2010 will have to be reduced or eliminated by good governance. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we welcome some of the measures already taken by the new board of directors and the management of the Slovenian compensation company with the start of its mandate and, among other things, the implementation of the requirements set out in the conclusions of the report of the Commission on Budgetary Control. Let me mention only one of the measures, namely, the operation of the management of the insurance company Triglav, when the management and management of the insurance company Triglav were cancelled. The result of 12 billion tolars more money for the Slovenian Compensation Society is ahead of us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the following word on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Director of the Slovenian Compensation Society with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which we are considering today, relates to the period 2001-2005. The report has already been discussed at its meeting by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Since there has been quite a heated debate on the Commission, where the members have addressed the report very widely, it is reasonable to emphasise what the content of this report is. The report was sent to the Commission on Elections and to the President of the National Assembly and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Slovenian Indemnification Fund and the status of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. The report shall cover, in addition to the presentation of the company and its authorities, in particular the registration of the company's obligations and the report on the management of its assets. The key finding, which was the most discussed by the Commission, is set out in point 2 of the conclusions. In this point, I quote: "The Supervisory Board notes that even after 12 years of operation of the company, the definitive amount of obligations which the company should settle is not yet known. The company thus estimates that it will hand over €818 million of bonds to the beneficiaries. Given that the company’s assets are estimated at $146 billion and are not sufficient to pay all the obligations envisaged, the Supervisory Board notes, quote, "that special attention will have to be paid to activities to ensure an increase in the value of social assets." The report therefore identifies certain facts in an corrective manner, and from this point of view, of course, we can agree with the report and take the appropriate decision to take note of the report of the Supervisory Committee for the period in question. Of course, we all probably also agree with the fact that the Slovenian Compensation Society must act in the future in a way that will make it possible to pay everyone or as many of these obligations as possible. The strategy must be geared in the same direction that will elevate social property, resulting in at least a reduction in the possibility that any large part of the funds to pay social obligations will have to be provided from the taxpayer's money. This, of course, is already a matter of a new company administration strategy. We are convinced that this administration has this strategy and we believe that this is a good one and will allow the company to manage its assets as rationally as possible and that there will be no unjustified damage at the expense of the taxpayer's money. However, we wonder whether it is also the duty of the administration to report to us here on this strategy. At the same time, the National Assembly has the full legitimacy to invite the Slovenian Compensation Society to rational property management. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, of course, expect the company's director to treat his team as a good host and to make optimal use of the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The latter will present the position of the Group of Members, Vice-President Peca on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! I hope that, unfortunately, the confirmed report of the Slovenian Compensation Society will not be presented in the public and professional eyes as if the legislative branch of the authorities agreed with the way in which the work is done, with the content of the work and with the result of the work, i.e. the work done so far by the Slovenian Compensation Society. I also hope that this will not send a clear message to citizens and citizens that we accept or accept that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not even been present to deal with the current work of the Slovenian Compensation Society. All that I can do at a given moment, given that I have heard all the parliamentary groups so far and that more or less of all of you have agreed with the proposed conclusions, that this will not be considered to be the end of the 12-year work of the Slovenian Compensation Society or the Fund, however you wish, and that we will receive from now on the answers, yes, as the State Assembly has become aware of the report, has also adopted it in some way, adopted additional decisions and should no longer be involved in the matter. I hope that the Slovenian public will not understand this way. If the Slovenian public, the laity and the professional public, understand this way, then we can say with certainty that we have landed in one of the most untransparent modes of business, covered it by our vote of decisions or better by voting those who will support and give the green light, not only for this kind of non-transparent operation of the pre-existing institution, all those other institutions which have been established by law, that is, on the basis of the wish of the executive branch of power, and of course by supporting the legislative branch of authority, in that sense and in that interest, that it is an institution that is positive, and in particular in the interest of the welfare of citizens and citizens, working and carrying out tasks on the basis of the law that has been carried out. One speaker said in his presentation that the report was important. According to my assessment or according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the report should be important, but then this National Assembly should meet with a much larger, much better quality material than we have today or these days before us, whether it is in the computer network or in the form of a Rapporteur. To adopt the report and, on the basis of the report, the conclusions on the future and the past part of this institution, and the report, which is on the 30 pages or rather, on the 30 pages, on the 30 pages without content, is just a copy of the tasks and obligations, but without substantive, and thus give the green light back and, more importantly, the green light forward, at least after my assessment, is a disaster. The fact is that today we are talking about 30 leaves of one of the most important institutes that describe history, hide many odd jobs, hide many missed opportunities and hide, most likely, the reasons for a good part of the collapse of public finances in the future. Sooner or later the future, if not even this, will face the negative impact of the past part of the current and future part of the Slovenian Compensation Society on the impact of public finances. Sooner or later we will have to provide additional financial resources from other sources, because someone in the past, for the first time, has not only been able to calculate his obligations, not only has he not been able to elevate the capital to recover from the legally imposed obligations, but, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to do so if the Slovenian professional and lay-off public today does not receive a clear signal that the National Assembly is in the interest of citizens and citizens and in terms of transparency does not support this kind of action, such institutions, which are, as it is said, established by law. One of the speakers spoke of the partial importance of the SOD, the Slovenian Compensation Society. This same speaker spoke of the future deficit that this company will transfer, for the first time, because of its business and, secondly, because of the tasks transferred to this society through the law, to the future state budget, to public finances or to the correction of the budget in the form of a rebalancing. The fact is that we can talk about the importance of this institution, or we must also talk about the fact that the Prime Minister is also the president of this society's assembly. This is actually to the refugees who should show us and the government that we should not agree with the business display for the past years, I am talking about plurality, it has been many years, based on 30 ballots. And that even the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should not treat the SOD, citizens and, lastly, citizens, in such a way that it is not even present in the consideration of the conclusions of the National Assembly on this content. Ministers, all of them, or a large majority of them, are substantively involved in the field of public finances. We have before us a document that will burden public finances, but none of them are here today. In my opinion, of course, this is sad, especially in terms of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to citizens and citizens. Also, I don't want to repeat myself, and it will be sad if the National Assembly gives that signal to the public, as I said before, and I said, these 30 ballots are phenomenal, very qualityly written, we are pleased with the past part of this institution, just so forward. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the signal so far that you have, or rather, transmitted to the public by the Group of Members. It was said that several times in the past, either the National Assembly or the past leadership of Mr Pahor in 2003, or by Mr Bajuk, who led his mother's working body in the final stage, missed his opportunity and spoke about past reports. That's a fact. The National Assembly made mistakes because it did not address such reports. And on this side, it seems irresponsible to me by the National Assembly if, because of negligence, ignorance or because of something third, Mr Pahor or Mr Bajuk, he did not accept reports that he later criticised the functioning of this institution. I don't think that's right from this address. However, it seems correct to me that the National Assembly, as it is currently being treated, would be much more appropriate to consider a report reflecting at least a small part of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The report that we have before us today does not reflect the contents of the past work, but merely seeks political support so that it can continue to do so in the future. From this title it is probably very interesting to point out, I think several times it was, but not clearly enough, those basic acts, why and how the Slovenian compensation company created what its primary purpose was. We have little to realize that the Slovenian Compensation Society, as the name tells us, is established within our country so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not itself, within its institutions, direct institutions such as ministries, carry out property and thus cover obligations under the title of individual laws. That is why we have already in the introduction and summary of the report, which we have before us, written quite a few acts which are the basis for the "and way" of the Slovenian Compensation Society. So those "and the way" or those laws that give a lot of property to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The fact is that this has also been introduced by the legislator, at least a large part of it, some is also a constitutional court or a judicial branch of power. However, it is also, of course, unacceptable, in my opinion, that after 12 years the obligations foreseen cannot be calculated and that only some kind of flat-rate assessment is made, especially taking into account the fact of the age of the denationalisation law, especially in previous procedures in the field of "denationalisation", in narration, at least according to my assessment, "equitables". But here too, if we want to be at least a little bit right, we have to ask ourselves why the number of commitments, such as capital schemes or the form of commitments, are not being taken into account within the Slovenian Compensation Society. One of the answers is the excessive generosity of the legislator under the law on denationalisation. But the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have started in the past year, i.e. since the start of the new government, hastening to work on denationalisation procedures and expanding the circle or accelerating the number of excuses. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, if I now touch at least a little of the material that is ahead of us talking about the company's obligations as defined in the report in the five areas, I will only touch point 4.1. - it's a denationalization. Why? Because it has been exposed by some parliamentary groups that this is one of those areas which is very qualitatively defined in the report. The denationalisation itself and the obligations set out in this title are in the context of this report, which I stress once again, many of you or almost all of you have talked about how quality it is, how perfectly the four pages are written. We have a number on page 52 - just to tell you - of requests received 16,218. But one would expect that if after so many years we met with a report on the work of the SOD, at least one of these would be listed. In order for the largest, in financial terms, denationalising beneficiaries for whom the SOD has worked or for whom it will work, of course, to be identified, the procedures shall be defined. Ladies and gentlemen, none of this is in this report. The report consists of a purely worded text that tells what such an institution is supposed to do or what the SOD is supposed to do on the basis of, but nothing about, the content. Of course, the National Assembly should not have agreed to such reports. We are talking about an institution whose purpose I have told before, and which work will burden, unfortunately, future public finances. I will read one of those sentences, which is largely in this report, mainly in the context of denationalisation, where it reads: "The Company has been working on a case-by-case basis to regulate claims and to determine accurately and consistently the amount of compensation in the bonds belonging to the beneficiary" and so on. In this report, the Court does not refer exclusively to such phrases, but does not refer to what are the examples of similar claims, how it consistently identifies - there is no content in the said act before us. He writes exclusively about how to do something in a beautiful way, but there is no specific definition of how something has been done in the last 12 years. In my opinion, this could only be a report from a high school student who would have access to the Internet and to the basic laws on which the SOD came into being. I will not touch on any other obligations, obligations under the Housing Act as defined in 4.2, 4.3, damages for the confiscation of property, or 4.4., compensation for victims of war and post-war violence, nor the implementation of the Property Change Act. Why not? Because it is equally irrelevant because you have remained political parties, parliamentary groups to them, all under the same or within the same denominator, that all this is quality and nicely done. Unfortunately, I fear that the opposition to the proposed decisions by SNS Members will not be enough to prevent the light or direction you are sending, but not only to the operators of the SOD, but to all of those I have talked about before. I would therefore sincerely like to see, at least in the context of the debate to be led by Members and Members below, what critical thoughts have been expressed, of course as positive criticisms. Well, I would like to touch on the conclusions proposed by my mother's working body. I must admit that such conclusions by the signatory, the President, Mr Milan M. Squikel, I am not used to them. In the first decision, they would like the National Assembly to confirm, in their view, that the report of the Supervisory Board is of particular quality. The first conclusion is that we confirm a particularly high-quality report. The report on the 30 ballots for several years, a report by one of the most important institutions in our country on the 30 ballots, wants to show the mother's working body as a particularly quality and appropriate report. Report on the institution, which is also important to the Prime Minister when he sits at the summit of the same institution. That's what the first decision is about. Of course, this first decision cannot receive the support of a Member of the Slovenian National Party. I'm sorry, but it's ridiculous that the National Assembly is shaping this kind of decision. What light we will send, not only to this institution, but to all those who are interested and should be interested in everything or should all those who depend on public finances. We know, however, that we depend on public finances for all citizens and citizens. In the second decision, which I cannot define as politically possible as a smart person, it is necessary to comply with the rules in force in the sale of ownership shares. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts or the parent working body for the time being, a decision which has only one content, that is the content that the SOD must comply with the applicable rules. Yeah, where did we come from? This means that until now the Court has failed to take them into account. I'll allow that option. But we can't afford this and take decisions in this form. This is about as if we were to write a directive to citizens, I apologize, adopt a decision for citizens and citizens, and say, follow the Constitution. Sorry, for laws, constitutions and other legal acts in our country, which are binding, we do not need to take subsequent decisions on the need to take laws into account in some business. If the National Assembly will adopt such acts or decisions as are before us today, then it is rightly expected that after the adoption of any law in our country we will have to adopt a decision that will say, "People, stick to this law". I'm sorry, but that's bullshit. This is totally "stupid", so I am so much more surprised that under such laws or conclusions Milan M. Squeakl is signed and that he has got a green light within his mother's working body. And a third decision, which is, of course, contrary to both the baseline or the performance of the new president of the SOD Supervisory Committee, which also agreed that the report is of quality, like all the parliamentary groups. However, since this third decision already requires a change in work. Ladies and gentlemen, if everything is as fantastic as you have defined in your words, on behalf of the parliamentary groups and well-being in the work of the SOD so far, the new Chairman of the Supervisory Committee said, why then change the strategy and measures to the future. But the first conclusion says that the phenomenal report is the phenomenal work of the SOD. In the second decision, you are proposing that the sale of property, as if not self-evidently, should be subject to regulations. In the third case, however, you are talking about making a change and inform the National Assembly by means of this amendment. I don't know. Someone probably wasn't serious about the work of the mother. This is probably due to an unserious report that is ahead of us today. And I can say with certainty that this report is not serious, and it is particularly detrimental to citizens and citizens, because this is a green light for all non-transparent business forwards and for all transactions when the operators of these non-transparent business avoid all responsibility when they submit a report on 30 pages within four years. Only this negative green light brings the national council forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss Members and Members on the report and proposals for conclusions. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The decision on when the report of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Indemnity Society comes to the meeting of the National Assembly and when it remains within the framework of the parent working body is a matter of the parent working body. And unfortunately, many times before, we have not considered the report of the Governing Council at the national assembly. That was bad, and I would say, it would suggest a lack of caring attitude of the National Assembly towards a very important issue. With regard to the reports submitted so far by the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society to the National Assembly, I must say that I have read some of them and that I have in mind that the correct report of the Slovenian Compensation Society was about 10 years ago at the time of the first review of the implementation of the Denationalisation Act, even in the then committee to monitor the implementation of business ownership, has in fact pointed to the most open issues concerning the issue of denationalisation, and has already pointed out, for the first time in 10 years, how the denationalisation procedures are proceeding, how we are professionally prepared to implement the law on denationalisation, whether there are appropriate guidelines on how to conduct procedures in a uniform manner within administrative units and ministries. It drew attention to questions about how not sufficiently well-thought-out asset valuations and more. That is why, at least to me, who, with the problem of denationalisation in the last 10 years, and also in the adoption of the law, has been very busy, the reports of the Supervisory Council and the Slovenian Compensation Society, in particular the services, have always helped to shed light on this situation. And even today, when we evaluate the report of the Slovenian Compensation Society, I think we should think, evaluate, at least I see things that way, some elements. First time. The system or the role or manner of management of the Slovenian Compensation Society with the assets obtained by the Slovenian Compensation Society by law must be made available and managed with due care in order to fulfil its obligations under the law as well. By this year or by the end of last year, I have not heard specific criticism of the wrong decisions of the Slovenian Compensation Society regarding asset management. If such things have been, it is right to say them, but I have heard them, but I believe that someone will say that this does not belong in this round of reports, and formally after the dates really do not, and I also told myself to a large extent when the Slovenian Compensation Society decided to sell the property to Mercator. I will not speak more broadly, but this will certainly be an important topic that will have to be discussed in one of the other instances when this part of the report is also being considered, or if we are allowed to make a quality assessment of the decisions made in this regard in the context of the Commission of Inquiry. I have not heard specific decisions, comments on decisions so far, and also the report of the Supervisory Board does not address them. However, the second issue is how the Slovenian Compensation Society has fulfilled its obligations under laws that require it to make specific decisions: denationalisation, housing law, the issue of cooperative law, the issue of the law on repair or the victims of war violence, and so on. In some cases, some issues have been reported to the Slovenian Compensation Society, but never in any way to violate any of the legislation it had to implement in this part. I didn't hear that. That is also why it is difficult for me to say anything critical about the functioning of society and also about the report of the Supervisory Board. The second is the question of what are the consequences of this action. However, these consequences are rightly pointed out by society and cannot be changed because they are the content of the legislation it has to implement. And in this part, I am now addressing with some thought on the issue not only of the control council, not just of society, but of those who should manage society, and this is the government as a community of society, how it will ensure that the serious warnings that society has not for the first time but in many reports back give that the resources it has and the capital it has at its disposal will not be very likely enough to cover all its obligations, how we will deal with this problem. First of all, I would like to say that the reason for this situation is the fact that we have come up with the problem of denationalisation. I am taking this opportunity to reiterate my claim that we are unique within Europe as we have embarked on denationalisation. Not a single country in Europe has embarked on denationalisation by taking away everything that has been taken away. You all know this well, but it is only right for the public to say this again and again that, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany is as one of the important countries that also had to tackle denationalisation mainly due to East Germany, not due to Western work, of course, but decided that over the value of one million German Marks would refund compensation only at 1%. After such a degressive scale, she decided to make a denationalisation. In the nature of many things, especially forests and agricultural land, she did not return at all because she felt that it was a property to be managed by the State. In Hungary, for example, they decided that no one could receive compensation, regardless of the value that was taken from him, more than 70,000 German marks of value. In Croatia they also went to a degressive scale and only one third of the value could be returned to a million marks. Thus, we were the only ones to have set such an extent and should have foreseen the property accordingly. Now it says we didn't see it coming. Why not? Probably also because the first evaluations at the time of the adoption of the denationalisation law showed that the actual estimated value of denationalisation was almost 100% lower than the next few years, according to the first estimate, I think that in 1997, it was established. This is probably where the wrong assessment was, I will not claim accidentally or knowingly, but I fear that even knowingly, that a smaller part would be displayed and that all the warnings that some of us had at the time would not have been adopted and that the law would have been proposed in the way that it was proposed and adopted as a unit in Europe. If so, then it is even more important to note here that the assessments were unrealistic and therefore it is not surprising that there may not be sufficient resources to cover the obligations. In this part, I believe that the supervisory board of the Slovenian Indemnity Companies should be given a finding or recognition that it has already warned us several times about this fact and that this fact is clearly pointed out in this last report as well. And if anything, we should ask the government in the National Assembly to approach this issue. How? I don't know. It should most likely be ensured that assets are properly managed in order to cover as many obligations as possible, to increase assets, and to reflect on them in the supervisory board. In any event, to do everything not to oblige taxpayers after 1910, as is possible, to cover directly from the budget the obligations arising under the Denationalisation Act. I think this should be a message from today's debate on the report of the Supervisory Board. Everything else, I believe, is far less important than this fact. I'm glad this is not the first time that I've warned about this problem, but that there are more of us now, because sometimes I was the only one who warned about it. I hope that this will ultimately continue to be the case to this extent, that the decision will, in due course, also come true through the functioning of the parent working body in due course and that the government will inform us of what it intends to do on this issue. If not, this government will also act irresponsibly and will only hide its eyes from the facts in order to make it aware that a decision that was almost adopted 14 years ago is necessary, recklessly and poorly, to pay the political price of support given by the institutions, which also receive the most from denationalisation, that this is simply to be accepted and implemented. I therefore expect that, in this direction, the National Assembly will not only adopt the decision that is proposed but will also really make sure that the government comes with such a proposal, and that it may also try to assess on a yearly basis how the necessary means are provided so that taxpayers do not have to bear these obligations. Finally, I would like to point out that other institutions and their supervisory councils would have been so rightly aware of the very serious social and material problems faced by the State, as the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society has pointed out. We can't blame him if the problems aren't solved. However, we can blame the government, which is the assembly of this Slovenian Compensation Society, if it fails to provide its programmes, how to ensure that the commitment funds are sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. The report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society is certainly one of the most interesting to assess how we can plan the development of Slovenia, after all. If I only briefly mention that we have a very large obligation to build highways, they will be built by other state roads if we want to regulate them, they will be created in the construction of railway infrastructure and could also be listed. One of the major obligations we have ahead of us is the obligation to carry out a denationalisation project, which is actually a project for which we do not have an asset cover, and it will certainly be necessary to seek, in particular, resources to replace this asset, if the value of the assets does not increase. And when I read this report by the Supervisory Board, I am pleased, on the one hand, that somehow all the long-standing warnings we have given, for example, have come into force with one of those who contribute to the Slovenian Compensation Society. I have in mind the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been the subject of political negotiations, purchases for years, in short, a whole series of ideas were born how this fund was to provide certain land. And in some years, we've even met with the fact that he leased the land for free. However, if we find that the lease and purchase is part of the funds received by the Slovenian compensation company, this hole has indirectly increased, this void, which will have to be filled. From the 2001-2004 report, we can see that in 2001 the fund paid in the form of purchases and purchases of 197 million 450 thousand dollars, in 2002 slightly more, 198 million, in 2003 247 million and in 2004 already 325 million dollars. This is a major change, although these are not as specific amounts as the Slovenian compensation company itself would have wanted and all of us together. However, it is a few hundred million tolars that help to reduce this great void. What I want to say is that I am pleased when I read such data, because this is really a reflection of the fact that all these years we have been alerting ourselves to a lack of prudential policy on how to manage agricultural land in particular and what kind of leases are set out in this title. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to another fact that, however, in these asset recovery procedures, it is likely that it is a simple attempt to analyse to whom to return in nature, to whom to provide the bonds of the Slovenian compensation company. In addition to having a great void in the property that is supposed to cover these liabilities, even in the segment where we cover these liabilities, we reduce in the way that we return the assets, they see very large deficiencies, especially in the sense that a new owner does not really know what he will do with this property. In particular, I have in mind the facilities located in the city centres and for which apparently new owners are either unable to care properly or not have this interest or are waiting for, I don't know, maybe some additional source with which they could manage this property. I think that in the period ahead of us, we can expect that, however, there will also be more claims for bond issuance from this title than, of course, return in nature, because there will be very big problems in the part that has returned in nature. I've already mentioned one of these segments. These are objects that tell the city's cores, in fact, cause very big problems. Second. If we want to interfere with agricultural land complexes and crush them to partially restore them in nature, we will also have great difficulties in establishing competitive relations in Slovenian agriculture. However, to ensure that we also need state forest complexes, it is clear and I hope that this segment will not be affected, because in fact then we will destroy the very meaning of a prudent, long-term definition of the development of an individual country. I expect that the obligations of the compensation company in the past will be primarily in the form of bonds, so I also believe that much more effort will be required to increase this company's assets and that all those who are actually expected to contribute certain funds to the resources of the Slovenian Compensation Society will also act with care and not with narrow political criteria. This I think is one of the important directions for work and understanding to reduce obligations that we have already heard are this momentaryly larger than we can handle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Kontic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After the debate, I would say that only the Socialist Group of Members is here and there are more of us. When we talk about this report in the first place, I would like to stress, above all, that when we talk about responsibility, we place too much emphasis on the responsibility of the Supervisory Board. There will be more likely to be said about the congregation. This role is performed as the sole shareholder of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and it also bears responsibility, both for previous governments and for the current government. Within this report, a considerable part of the scope covers the area of denationalisation. In a few words, I will certainly try to include myself in the set of those referred to by my colleague Miran Potrč, who have been alerting or warning this matter for some time. The denationalisation or return process of nationalised property is a very sensitive topic. When we talk about what is an important segment of this report, what quickly comes across is that those we warn are marked as those who agree with the nationalisation that has been engineered after II. World war, but it's not like that. However, I am sure that the law was too generous to have certain things returned, both in nature and possibly in bonds, but that scope should be limited in some normal way, as it has been limited in all countries of this so-called transition. It is impossible to agree that in this area there is indeed a threat of concern that we will have to pay the difference between taxpayers and those who today do not even know what this means and the difference that will arise from the moment the Slovenian compensation company sells out all its assets, and until the time when all its obligations are required from this title are settled from this law. As we have found or have found, the compensation company received, in the notes, 10% of the social property at that time, as did citizens and citizens in the form of certificates with which we did not know exactly what. Some, however, knew exactly what needed to be done to gain wealth in this time of transition. And I wonder when we are talking about the correction of injustices, which are also part of the Slovenian Compensation Society or its operation, but who will be correcting the injustices of all those who have occurred to them in this transitional period, i.e. all those who will also have to pay their contribution in order to correct the injustices of past years. This Slovenian Compensation Society will probably not be the one to think about. And let me also say that there is no problem where somehow bonds are paid then nationalised property. When we talk about development in individual local communities, and let me mention Velenje's case, it happens that now, in the process of denationalisation, in order to avoid the obligation of the Slovenian compensation companies to return to nature, they return to the nature of the land, a few square metres right next to the roads, which will need to be obtained in order for the local community to be able to regulate transport infrastructure. And here we're gonna run into trouble again. If the owner does not wish to sell it, there is a developmental stalemate in this area. And what is the final result? The final result is a re-thinking of decommissioning. This time with one proper compensation. And somehow the story repeats itself. But of course it is not the responsibility of the Slovenian Compensation Society, even less its, let's say, the Supervisory Board, but the original sin is in the law on denationalisation. It would therefore be necessary to find a response within this debate to how we will act in the future, how we will act when these funds, which are now being held by the Slovenian Compensation Society in the form of property or shares, are running out of these funds. Does this mean that the burden will go to the burden of the Slovenian taxpayer or the budget we accept each year, and of course what does this mean for future public finances in Slovenia? But the original sin is somewhere else, not in the Slovenian Compensation Society, the original sin is that we have actually given or promised more than we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Hvauc has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I do not share the opinion of those who have discussed that the report is of quality, that it is good, transparent, etc. I have quite a few concerns about the report. I'm just gonna focus on one piece. Each such and similar report is also made up of a very important part, namely the statement of income and expenditure balance, or the statement of revenue and expenditure. In this regard, I have some questions or some comments. It bothers me that there are no disclosures in the material concerning individual items in these statements. I miss things with a lot of items. For example, the costs of services range from 112 to 103 million tolars, and in 2003 I find no specific explanation of what this could be. I am also disturbed by a higher number, namely the assessment of financial expenditure in 2003 of 7 billion and 300. This is a very large number, and we understand nothing from what happened in 2003 that there was such a large amount of expenditure. There were also 3 billion in 2002 600, 2001 not even tolars, etc. Interest expenditure in 2003 126 million, before and after that virtually nothing. Also in the statement of the situation, short-term business claims, say, in 2003 5 billion 300, in 2004 almost 5 billion, etc. I think that the report for such an important large society would be so valuable that these disclosures would be worth these individual items. If someone treats five, six, seven billion expenses so easily, of course, we may also wonder whether he behaves as a good master or behaved, whether management was really what tax collectors and citizens would have wanted him to be. Because of this, I have a few concerns about this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the SOD, welcome! The report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, a shareholder company, for the mandate period of May 2001-May 2005 is, in my opinion, a realistic and correct reflection of the functioning of the SOD during this controlled period. We understand the task of the Supervisory Board to oversee the legality of the company's work and financial operations and to report on the operation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the second issue is the content of the work of the board and the company director, who led the company at that time. Of course, more than the report itself today, many prefer to talk about one of the biggest financial holes in Slovenian public finances, which is supposed to break the court's bottom if I can speak a little in parable, and you put this burden on this government's shoulders. The financial hole you are talking about - yes, you, too, Mr. Squeakl, have been very hospitable, only about the Triglav Insurance Company you have not said anything about - I estimate that this financial hole is at least disproportionate to the length of denationalisation procedures in our country. Denationalisation is, in my firm belief, a Slovenian shame, to many also pain. I hope that we will once see the conclusion of these denationalisation procedures and that then we will also be able to articulate clearly and loudly before the Slovenian public who is responsible for dragging these procedures along so abnormally long. If we can learn anything from the report, then this is our request to the current leadership of the SOD, not so far, not as your predecessors. More than the Commission's conclusions, which I am not impressed with myself, I am pleased that, with the start of the mandate at the end of 2004, several important measures have already been taken for work in 2005: for the first time, the acceleration of denationalisation procedures where the Slovenian Compensation Society has a direct impact; for the second time, the projection of the SOD's assets and the possibilities of covering liabilities by 2016; for the third time, the rationalisation of the management of non-marketable and non-profit capital participations with intensive disposal and replacements; for the fourth time, the balance sheet separation of assets to settle liabilities from management revenues and the off-balance sheet of liabilities by 2016. These measures set the framework for the fulfilment of the SOD's obligations both to the owner, namely the Republic of Slovenia and to the denationalisation beneficiaries. As an example of responsible conduct, I refer to the property of the Insurance Company Triglav. Re-evaluation according to the requirements of the insurance law, you value 60 billion initially, now 120 billion tolars and an active intervention in the management of the Triglav Insurance Company, when the administration and management of the Triglav Insurance Company were cancelled. The assets of the Slovenian Indemnity Company were estimated at around 170 billion dollars on the last day of last year, which could be sufficient to cover the obligations of the SOD by 2010, perhaps 2011. The estimated gap between liabilities and assets is about 110 billion tolars. I am sure that with good governance, the gap could be reduced or even covered with little or no luck. According to the new balance sheet, the income of the SOD is only capital gains, interest income and dividends. At the same time, the previous loss was converted into a claim to the owner of 20 billion tolars, so the SOD ended last year with four billion tolars of profits. We expect the company's management to make a profit with financial management for the interest paid by the SOD and for the company's operations. With the profit that may remain, we would try to pay back the loss of previous years or now, as has already been said, the claim on the owner. The SOD intends to sell some 60 capital investments this year. In order to improve the return on the management of purchases, management is committed to the management of this property to professional external institutions. The management of the SOD is awaiting conclusions from the government-designated Commission for the withdrawal of SOD and KAD from active business management. I would like to point out with satisfaction that the leadership of the SOD has done much in recent years to accelerate all activities in addressing the denationalisation requirements that the SOD can influence. The management of the SOD actively cooperates with administrative units and participates in appeals. In the past, the representatives of the SOD rarely came to these hearings. In the last three months, their participation is 100%. They shall try to meet with the valuers on the beneficiary's side and resolve the differences before the complaints. Let me mention that this year the SOD will have to pay $38 billion for damages, of which $28 billion for denationalising beneficiaries. I want the leadership of the SOD of these measures, these goals that it has set, to reach 100%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. Most words revolve around the lack of funds to cover the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society. See, if we return 14 years ago, as Mr Potrč told us that these things were happening, we can see that at the time they predicted that 10% of the value of enterprises would be sufficient to cover all the obligations under the denationalisation law. Surely this was done by some professional institutions, this assessment, and this was their conclusion. I guess or I could say it could be the other way around. That 10% of the value of businesses would result in a surplus of resources at the final stage of the SOD. But for the first time, for these 10% of the assets, it was also necessary to make a realistic assessment of the value of businesses. The question is how these companies were actually evaluated or, in other words, whether these companies were evaluated in the same way as that professional service, which found that 10% was sufficient, predicted that they would. Well, it's already full of strangers. In the process of these 14 years, these strangers continued their efforts, including by adopting laws in addition to the compensation fund, under which the compensation fund was responsible not only for renationalisation but also for other matters such as housing law, such as the law on the use of funds obtained from purchases, etc. In short, these are the things that caused this anomaly. The next thing that has affected this is those companies that have left or left or from the compensation fund from the original 1300 at the previous 177. How those were sold, how they were, how they were realized here. In short, this matter has also caused this development of the deficit, which is being identified in some way today. The slow resolution of denationalisation and the setting up of a whole bunch of obstacles was also one of the reasons why the fund had so much and so much to pay off. And also this case, which I personally know, one company owned, had a denationalisation request, of course the value of this company - the fund got the value reduced by the denationalisation request. During the denationalisation process itself, the company did not want to give up the basic assets to denationalised people, so there was a claim in the form of compensation and clearly the difference between denationalisation and that compensation fund simply did not receive. And there were probably more of these cases. And these are some of the assumptions that have led us to this situation today, as it is to see that we are likely, but I still hope as an eternal optimist, that it will probably not be necessary to cover all the deficits that today appear to be operating transparently and responsibly and economically, to reverse them qualitatively, and that this hole will not be what is said today. Of course, this case, which we heard yesterday about the insurance company, is also such that the compensation fund will receive significantly more funding from the current scenario than it would have received from the previous one. This is said to be true if the valuation of the value of the insurance undertaking was the same as it was, it is said, once again. In short, these matters have so much to do that it is difficult to predict when and how the final count will be, or what numbers will be, below the line, according to the local word. I have no doubt that people or leaders in the compensation society do not behave as they should in the interests of society, and that they will ensure that the compensation society does its duty in accordance with the laws. So I don't think there's any concern that this can't be realized. Of course, with regard to the final number or the result, I think, as someone once said, Meta Malus can't tell today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. And it's Mr. Kumer's turn. He's quitting. Mr. Starman is gone. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First two, three comments on what was said. First of all, I would like to say, as president of the labour force, that we have adopted the conclusions that we have drawn by consensus and that the first decision was to stress, above all, that we are assessing that the report is qualitative and appropriate in the conclusions on the functioning of society in denationalisation procedures. Which, of course, leads us to a second conclusion that we would like the National Assembly to clearly commit the Slovenian Compensation Society, because at the time of its creation until today, and this is the first such treatment in the National Assembly, it is clear to the Slovenian Compensation Society that it is obliged to act in accordance with the Public Finance Act, then there were some doubts, we have written this at a time when the Ombudsman has not yet issued her decision and that because she is empowered and must act under the Public Finance Act, especially taking into account the takeover law, the competition law, but not acting if you want only under your special law and regardless of the other principle of good governance, of course, to pay the property. I hope the National Assembly understands that. Then we have a third conclusion where we want the government to bring us a strategy and we are also addressing this strategy here. I regret that the opposition has not taken advantage of the opportunity in past mandates that, as the one who had control or, if you wish, the presidency of the parent working body to control the budget, this debate has not been transferred to the National Assembly. I think our debate has shown that this is a necessary debate because it is large numbers. It is true whether it is just by accident or not, I do not know, that you will tell the representatives of the proposer that the Slovenian Compensation Society has arrived with some additional documents in recent weeks, with additional reports. It will be very interesting to hear your explanation on the basis of which, either legal or legal, you have established a claim of 20 billion to the owner. Has the owner issued, I don't know, any guarantee, or is this - this is a very important question - this guarantee is also found in the books of the Ministry of Finance? I don't understand how you suddenly end your business year with 4 billion profits and what's the opposite of the Slovenian public balance sheet of your claim to the owner of 20 billion. This is an interesting way of closing holes and exhibiting something that is a hole in the SOD, as a claim to the state, or if you want, as a hole in Slovenian public finances, without having previously passed an appropriate law in this National Assembly. Because if you have highlighted this claim and if the government on the other hand has established an obligation to you, I would like to know what the legal basis is. The legal basis of the Slovenian Constitution for taking on obligations is only law. And I don't know the law that would say that for 2005, the SOD deficit is so much and so, of course, covered by some kind of transaction. There's no such transaction. Here we have the problem of differences between the balance sheets according to the principle of the occurrence of business events and the principle of payment of the paid realization, but surprises are considerable, given what you published last week in the newspapers. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we estimate that it is very important how the SOD will work in the future. I think that the functioning of this government, in particular because of the increasing scope of the necessary disposal of assets, is said to be a change in assets to another form requiring payment of liabilities, is now accelerated and therefore it does not matter how you sell this property. Mercator's example has shown you that other objectives, the goals that have enabled Mercator to be taken over, the goals that have enabled him to take over the work, and something else, are ahead of the objectives of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Slovenian compensation company has only one objective under the law. This objective is to maximize the value of assets and to cover denationalisation-related liabilities from assets. Of course, I was particularly pleased, given what is happening on the coverage side, so we have also highlighted this in both the Commission's report and our position. We believe that the SOD is working properly in minimizing the scope of denationalisation obligations, and we hope that it will continue this way, regardless of whether we now have another authority, which may call it "differently favoured" or otherwise interpret legislation. In the Liberal Democracy, we will support the proposed conclusions and expect the government, as the SOD Assembly, to come to the National Assembly with an appropriate strategy and we will be able to devote enough time in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. And the motioner has the floor. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. The kid's and then Mr. Robnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I would only briefly explain the reports or how the Supervisory Committee unanimously commissioned the professional service to submit the report and, as we know, the report was first transmitted to the National Assembly on 14 July last year. The Supervisory Committee unanimously adopted its decision on 24 May this year. Even in recent years, the professional service has been responsible for the transmission of these reports and in good faith that this has been mediated, I do not believe that the Supervisory Board itself is responsible for this work. I am, of course, extremely sorry that the National Assembly has not addressed the reports so far, as it could also, on the basis of some of your proposals and comments on how to supplement the report, certainly provide more information and I believe that this is a good way to prepare the reports in the future. I understand the criticism as an invitation to change, and even for me, despite the fact that my mandate has expired, that all the members of the Supervisory Board have cooperated well, properly and professionally, it has been a pleasure to hear this because I have also learned a lot. It was also due to respect for the National Assembly and the Slovenian Compensation Society that I felt worthy of hearing this, also because I believe that this particular treatment has given the necessary incentive to deal with this extremely large area of action, which in fact concerns all of us in the future. But maybe there's just a way. In this regard, it would also be necessary to say something about the competence of individual authorities and, of course, the competence of the Supervisory Board to define or define a uniform form of governance in order to be able to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. And Mr. Robnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	I'll be very brief. Thank you for inviting me to attend today's national assembly meeting. From This [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Mr Robnik, I would just like to ask you, Mr Robnik, to stand up, please, but this is the image of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I have actually seen a lot of warnings from this debate, especially that you need some kind of information. And my wish is to meet once, to make reports such that these reports will cover the information needed to inform the National Assembly. This is a report, what the Supervisory Board has given away. It's a report, it's not an elaborate, it's not an analysis. There's a bunch of data in this report that's raw material. True, then, data with different interpretations are used for such or other findings. However, from this data it is possible to produce information, and this is exactly what we would like to prepare on the basis of this interview to be the information that would then satisfy the need to inform the national assembly. One such essential information can be detected from this report by the Supervisory Board, and this is about the lack of funds to cover all liabilities in those years until all these liabilities are settled. In short, the report is not an elaboratory and is not an analysis, but we would like to make an effort at least in the next term, so at this time to prepare a report to you each year, and that is the information that is relevant and necessary. However, I think we have heard about the role of the Supervisory Board, and it would certainly be right to consider the fate of this body. I have to say, if I can conclude that my feelings are actually pleasant today, that not so many words flew to the work of the Supervisory Board as perhaps to anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether, under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss. I conclude the debate on the report and the draft conclusions. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed decisions, we will decide on the conclusions in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd agenda or no later than 20 and 55 minutes. I hereby interrupt this item and thank the representatives and representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO THE THIRD DELIVERY PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT LEGISLATION. In the meantime, the Minister of Mags joined us. He's a freshman and he's a professor. Welcome. The total time for discussion is 2 hours and 35 minutes. The draft law has been drafted by the Government for third reading, so I give the floor to the Minister to present a supplementary explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The basic reason for the adoption of the drug law is to harmonise, as you know, Slovenian legislation with the amended European Union medicines Directives. The amended proposal for a law contains 125 articles, which are set out in 15 chapters, governed by a medicinal product for human use as well as veterinary medicinal products and conditions and measures to ensure their quality, safety and efficacy and the conditions for their testing, manufacture and marketing, and the prices of medicinal products. These amendments, or amendments of the Health Committee, also provide for a new chapter and articles laying down the establishment and tasks of a public agency for medicinal products and medical devices as a body responsible for medicines which, as a legal person, will be a public institution of public authority in the field of medicinal products. There's a whole series of articles listed here. This raised the question of how to organise drug control. In most Member States of the European Union, the authorities responsible for medicinal products shall exercise professional and inspection supervision, irrespective of whether they are organised within or outside the national administration. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 45 of the Offences Act, a public agency as a holder of public powers may be a criminal authority, but within it we cannot organise a control function in the form of an inspection, since the inspection law provides for the organisation of an inspection only within the state administration. The provisions of the law, which also speak of supervision, have therefore been amended accordingly so that supervision is limited to professional supervision and to the role of the criminal authority. As a result, amendments were adopted in the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly on the basis of which pharmaceutical inspectors were replaced by pharmacists. These were amendments, I must list the articles: Article 68, Article 75, Article 81 and Article 93 and Article 101(1). The amendment to Article 102 laid down the conditions to be met by pharmacists and the supervision of the work of the entire public agency carried out by the Ministry of Health, which was adopted in previous examinations of the draft law. The amendments of the National Assembly delete the provision of Article 16 of the draft law governing medicinal products that are comparable to each other. A considerable amount of time has also been allocated to Article 79, which regulates the sale of medicinal products for retail use in specialised shops. And some more explanations for the harmonisation amendments. The amendments adopted regulating the public agency and the field of pharmaceutical supervision have led to some inconsistencies. They were created in Articles 61 and 104, which were not open at second reading. In addition to the appointment of a pharmacist in the clinical trial, the proposal for a harmonisation amendment to Article 61 also assesses certain specific conditions regarding the type of education and knowledge in the field of good practices and supervisors compared to the general conditions applicable to those persons set out in Article 102 of the Law. Article 104 lays down the competences of pharmacists and it is necessary to re-organise them, more precisely, also meaningfully, as agreed for inspectors. The supervision of pharmacists is, however, limited to professional supervision and to the exercise of a criminal function, but their powers must be sufficiently regulated at the level of law in order to be able to control effectively and to achieve their purpose. Article 111 included provisions which fall within the transitional provisions of their content, namely the provision establishing the resources of the current Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices and the Institute of Pharmacy and for the testing of medicinal products of Ljubljana and the provision for the commencement of the work of the public agency. The amendment in Article 112 is of a relative nature because the content relates solely to the second paragraph of this Article and in the new fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 20 is thus transferred part of the content of the previous text of Article 111 relating to the pooling of the resources of the current Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices and the Institute for the Pharmacy and Testing of medicinal products of Ljubljana. The Article governs the transition of the Authority responsible for medicinal products from the current form of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry of Health to the form of a public agency. A new sixth paragraph has been added to regulate the work of pharmaceutical inspectors who, on the date of the establishment of the public agency, become pharmacists. In this way, the transition from pharmaceutical inspectors to pharmacists is also specifically regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. The first is Mr Germič on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The drug law is now in the National Assembly before the final epilogue. Unfortunately, he was accompanied by a series of problems during the parliamentary hearing, primarily due to poor preparation of the legislative text, without a transitional broader public debate. It has been shown that neither the general public nor the civil public participated in the drafting phase of the law. We have already pointed out the shortcomings of the law in the LDS in the course of the general debate in the National Assembly and then proposed certain amendments to improve the text. While the text has improved with the adoption of some additions, the LDS would like to draw attention once again to certain problems that have accompanied the drafting of the text for the third reading and still to certain shortcomings in the text of the law. Thus, our biggest concern concerns the supply of medicinal products, where the law makes significant changes, since in future specialty stores will be allowed to sell not only medicinal products of plant origin and vitamin-mineral products, but also medicines containing synthetic substances. In the LDS, we support the introduction of an economic initiative, the elimination of monopolies, private initiative and the reduction of bureaucratic barriers, but we still find this to be very questionable. In doing so, we would like to reiterate that only those medicinal products which have little general toxicity and do not have significant reproductive toxicity, genotoxic or carcinogenic properties should be classified into the non-receptive system, have a very low risk of serious unexpected adverse reactions and do not interact with commonly used medicinal products that may lead to serious adverse reactions. By ensuring the safe and correct use of such medicinal products, it is therefore essential to provide expert advice to the pharmacy master, who is also authorised to provide information and advice on the use of medicinal products on the basis of the requirements of the EU Directive on the basis of his professional competence. The proposed law based changes in the supply of medicinal products on a higher availability and lower price of medicinal products, but it did not address these claims in the debate and not in the time of discussion and discussion on any analysis or study to assess the current supply of non-prescription medicinal products to the population, and showed the need to increase the supply of people, no checks and assessments of the benefits and weaknesses of the changes envisaged, and an assessment of health and financial risk due to potential overuse and misuse of medicines without a prescription. There are no estimates of damage caused by the misuse of medicinal products, although in countries with longer-term experience of more liberal access to synthetic medicinal products, a number of data on damage associated with incorrect use of non-prescription medicinal products have been published. Thus, in the United States of America, about 100,000 deaths are reported annually due to the misuse of prescription-free medicines. The problem of liver injury and death due to paracetamol is also faced in Ireland, which some refer to as an example of which Slovenia should follow. In Ireland, they have been working for almost a decade to gradually reintroduce restrictions on access to paracetamol, as it is also often used as a means of suicide. In 1997, 1,628 deaths due to paracetamol were recorded in Ireland, and this number remains at 1400 levels in the coming years, despite a number of measures to limit accessibility. One of the measures to limit access to paracetamol is to limit the number of doses per single pack of this medicinal product to be given outside the pharmacies. It is interesting to note, however, that the number of liver injuries in cases of poisoning has not decreased despite the observed lower dose, which can at least be explained in part by the interaction of paracetamol with ethyl alcohol, which significantly increases the toxic effects of paracetamol when co-administered via the enzyme comparator mechanism. Therefore, in the LDS, we regret that our efforts to ensure the safety of the use of prescription-free medicines, which can be sold outside pharmacies in so-called specialised shops, have only been partially successful. We regret that none of our additions to Article 79 have been adopted, which lays down more precisely the conditions to be met by substances of synthetic origin in such a way that it is not possible to interpret this provision differently and to ensure the safety of the use of medicinal products, which is crucial to achieving a high level of public health protection. On the basis of the discussion, the Health Committee received its supplement stating that the marketing authority responsible for medicinal products should only classify those synthetic medicinal products which have a favourable benefit-risk relationship and an acceptable pharmacovigilance and toxicological profile and that the authority responsible for medicinal products in the definition of medicinal products for retail sale in specialised shops may impose restrictions on the strength, size and number of units sold. Taking into account the definition of pharmacovigilance, it seems logical that only non-serious and non-serious medicinal products with favourable risk-benefit ratios and acceptable pharmacovigilance and toxicogylanic profiles may be identified as medicinal products but, in particular, not serious adverse reactions, however, in the course of the second reading of the proposal, the proposed legislation has not been supported by complementary proposals to specify more precisely the criteria for acceptability of the pharmacovigilance and toxicological profile, which is an important reason for further concern and the particular responsibility of the applicant. Therefore, in our opinion, there is a possibility that in the future, medicinal products that have known side effects, interactions with other medicinal products, food and food supplements, as well as known contraindications, or even that medicinal products that have demonstrated serious side effects will be available on the same shelves and may therefore cause reactions that result in direct life-threatening effects, require stationary hospital treatment or result in long-term or marked inability, inability or congenital anomaly. A further deficiency in the law is also observed in the lack of care to advise patients about the safe use of medicines even in self-medication and therefore a Master of Pharmacy and not a pharmaceutical technique should be employed in this site. The Directives of the European Union already provide that a person who consults on the use of medicinal products must meet the following conditions: successfully complete university studies on pharmaceuticals or other appropriate studies providing at least five years of training from the areas listed in the Directive and at least six months of practical training at the pharmacy. Also in other countries where the sale of medicines without a prescription is allowed outside pharmacies, there is a clear distinction between the role of the Master of Pharmacy, which also provides appropriate advice at the time of sale and, hence, medicinal products, and other staff who are not adequately qualified for such advice and therefore can only comply with the instructions and products sold in accordance with these instructions. As I have already pointed out, the drafting of the law was accompanied by a lack of communication, solutions were adopted without a broad public debate. Therefore, in the LDS Club, we welcome the fact that the professional and lay public on the opposition's proposals has managed to convince the proposer that the proposed way of regulating the system of cross-comparable medicines is inappropriate, as it could affect as much as a third of Slovenian chronic patients. The proposed solution would raise doubts in a number of legal areas, including the right to equal treatment, the protection of the achievements of the development of the innovative pharmaceutical industry and, last but not least, the doctor's legal autonomy in treatment. In the LDS, we have already warned from the beginning of the examination of the law that there has been a major flaw in the law in the fact that regulatory authorities in the Republic of Slovenia are not regulated in a way that would allow for an equivalent comparison with regulations in other Member States of the European Union. This was also noted by the EU inspection, and this problem has long been pointed out by the Slovenian pharmaceutical industry, for which the establishment of an appropriate system of control over the production of medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia is essential. We have warned that the role of the Slovenian Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices in the implementation of EU drug regulatory procedures in cooperation with other European agencies in the implementation of the legislation and development of Slovenia's pharmaceuticals should be rethought to address the poor situation of Slovenian legislation in the wider international area. Our warnings were successful because the proposed text of the law and the amendments follow the legislation and regulation of this area, and we support it in the LDS House of Members. However, we note still open discrepancies in cases where the Institute of Pharmaceutical Inspection or Inspector was replaced by the Institute of Pharmaceutical Supervision or Supervisor. It is necessary to take into account the provisions of the Inspection Control Act, which provides for the organisation of inspections as an independent body in the composition of the Ministry or exceptional cases within the bodies of ministries where the holder of public powers cannot carry out inspection controls. The supervisory provisions should be amended in the direction of professional supervision and the setting of conditions, in particular in terms of the education to be carried out by supervisors. On conclusion, I would like to point out that the legal system of the law will only be able to be assessed after today's consideration, as it was clear from the second reading on the Committee that harmonisation amendments would be necessary, since the proposaler has conceptually intervened in the text of the law by introducing a public agency for medicines and medical devices. At the LDS House of Members, we have warned the proposers that this undermines the consistency of the law and that such solutions should already be included in the text of the bill. In such behaviour, however, it is unacceptable that the Government has sent a harmonisation amendment to the text of the law to the National Assembly, although the amendments have not yet been adopted in the third reading. Since it is not a matter of not knowing the procedure, this means that the government ignores the parliamentary procedure and uses the National Assembly only as its service. This also means that the government knows in advance that all proposed amendments to the third reading text will be adopted, meaning that the government is precluding the possibility of taking the opposition's proposals into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the following word on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats' parliamentary group, we have always warned about the proposaler's wish to release the sale of medicines without a prescription outside pharmacies in so-called specialized stores. The arguments about the monopoly of pharmacies, the excessive margins, the desire for greater availability of medicines did not convince us to change the position we had at the beginning of the adoption process. When we have better access to medicines on the one hand and, on the other hand, the safety of users in the Social Democrats Group is given priority to security. We have been warned by the profession that medicines that could come to specialized stores, including medicines that can be very dangerous, sometimes also deadly in combination with alcohol, for example. With regard to the availability of medicines, it is precisely the way to continue the practice so far, this is the expansion of the pharmacy networks. In 1998 we had 149 pharmacy units in Slovenia. There are 273 of them today. We are still convinced that the best combination of both doctors and pharmacists is to treat or treat patients successfully. And when a doctor is not involved in the treatment process and therefore there is no prescription, it is our view that the presence of a high-educational pharmacist is necessary. Certainly, in the process of selling medicines without a prescription, we must not allow the first interest of the seller after profit to be the highest possible sale of medicines. At the second reading, we adopted an amendment which was reached as a kind of compromise between the bill-maker and the pharmacy chamber. So the pharmacy chamber also agreed with him. Later, we found that the article could be interpreted differently and understood differently. That is why Members and Members of the Social Democrats tabled an amendment, which unfortunately was not accepted by the State Assembly in second reading. The Article in the light of the rules of procedure, and also in the light of the review of the amendments tabled, will not be amended today in the third reading. We can only hope that it will be used as this article has already understood in the working body of the pharmacy chamber or the president of the pharmacy chamber. However, we were pleased to adopt the decision of the National Assembly at the previous meeting of the Social Democrats, which adopted an amendment drawing "comparable drugs" from the text. This has been done to meet the requirements of all patients who have alerted us to the consequences that would cost us if comparable medicines were left in marriage. This would mean that patients would receive, not the most effective medicine or medicines they receive at this time, but the most affordable, comparable. This would also mean that treatment would become dependent on each dose comparability assessment. The review of the amendments shows that the drafter does not propose any action under this Article in the third reading. Such a decision leads us to believe that the law in the content laid down in the second reading of the National Assembly does not conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Kucler Dolinar on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings, Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party, we assess that the proposal for a drug law is appropriate and fully regulated in this area. From the point of view of protecting the health of individuals, it is certainly the most important prevention, that is, early detection of the disease, which, despite expensive appliances and procedures, still proves to be the cheapest and most acceptable solution for both the country and the individual. However, if a disease occurs, adequate supply of quality, safe and effective medicines is important. In addition to other innovations, during the debates - we estimate that the debate was very rich - and also with the cooperation of the professional and other interested public the most raised issues or the question of how to arrange the sale of medicines without prescription in specialised shops. The final solution in the New Slovenia Group seems appropriate to us, since only those medicines for which the body responsible for medicines will be able to be sold outside the pharmacy will be available, subject to additional restrictions that the substances are primarily of natural origin and are rarer synthetic or semi-synthesis. So, those medications whose potential harmful effects are almost excluded. In addition, there is a further restriction on the sale of medicines outside pharmacies that these minors are not allowed to do so. We therefore assess that the principle of accessibility and security is satisfied both with the public principle and with the principle of accessibility and security. Another issue that has been very much raised, which has already been mentioned today, was the question of Article 16, where the definition of comparable medicinal products was deleted by the adoption of amendments. The response to the envisaged solution by the heart-to-heart society, the Ombudsman of the patients' rights and association of renal patients' societies, made a quite strong impression on this assembly by deleting the regulation of comparable medicinal products, although, on the other hand, the representative of the medical board said that there was a real comparison between the efficacys, between medicines, one of the basic principles of modern clinical pharmacology, of course on the basis of scientific findings and if this were in the hands of the treating physician. In terms of rationalisation, we also consider the introduction of a public medicine agency. Given the limited number of both staff, financial and technical resources, it is certainly appropriate to pool these funds now in one body empowered to exercise the powers conferred on it by law. However, I think that we have forgotten to table the amendment that would prescribe at least one dose of laughter a day if we could follow the negotiation that laughter is half-health. Otherwise, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Prevc has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will also support the drug law at third reading. Medicines are goods that must be accessible to all who need them, on favourable terms. We are probably in agreement on the need to adopt a new drug law. There are several reasons for the need to adopt this law. Let me first focus on the level of the European Union that seeks to remove barriers to the free movement of medicines, at the same time enhance the safety and effectiveness of medicines and increase the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry. With regard to these objectives, a number of acts covering that area have been adopted since 2001. The European Union regulations require us to adapt and allow for free movement and adequate control by 30 October 2005. We are late to implement these directives, but it was certainly necessary and meaningful to weigh the law well. There are certainly a number of reasons in Slovenia, which also dictate the necessity of a new legal regime in the field of medicines. It is important that we allow our pharmaceutical companies to export medicines to other countries of the European Union or to extend them more easily to the European market. It is even more important that we ensure a high level of protection of public health and animal health in Slovenia and that we exercise good control over medicines and increase their accessibility. Of course, access to medicines is particularly important for our citizens and citizens. The medicines available must be of adequate quality. At the same time, of course, we all want it to be as cheap as possible. The proposed law thus ensures or facilitates access to the market for generic medicinal products and makes it more systematic to determine the conditions for obtaining marketing authorisations for individual types of medicinal products. It is also important that the proposed law addresses only urgent procedures and lays down key criteria and, of course, leaves more detailed regulation to sub-legislative acts, allowing for faster and effective adaptation of rules to the new guidelines in the European Union. In our view, the issue of prescriptions for interchangeable medicinal products is also more appropriately addressed, which will reduce the likelihood of clinically relevant differences in the efficacy and safety of these medicinal products. In the course of the debate, a number of conflicting opinions have been faced, indicating the importance of this law. The law takes into account comments, both medical, veterinary and pharmaceutical professions. In our view, the benefits of consumers are also protected. In the parliamentary group, we will support amendments from SLS, SDS, NSI and DeSUS, which better regulate control and define a pharmaceutical supervisor. Better control of the use of veterinary medicinal products will also be ensured in detail by the transmission of VURS data on which medicinal products have been assessed to be inadequate, as also animal and plant products in the food chain can have a significant impact on human health. As has already been said, the parliamentary group will also support the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. He'll be the last to present the position of DeSUS mags. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague. In principle, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a drug law submitted by the government, and we will support it. The need for the preparation and adoption of a new drug law regulating the scope of medicinal products for human and veterinary use is due in particular to the amended legislation of the European Union, which the Republic of Slovenia is required to transpose into its legal order. In our Group of Members, we have already pointed out in the general debate some shortcomings and perhaps professional inconsistencies, as well as those objectives which are in line with European Union legislation and which are urgently needed in terms of amending the law. This law interferes with an extremely sensitive area, so the Government may take into account the broadest possible consensus of both different societies and experts, and in particular the opinions and warnings of those who will be affected in one way or another by the new regime. Let me stress once again that the basic guidelines of this proposal are good and, as such, we also understand and support them. I must say that many proposals and recommendations have been taken into account within the debate that has been going on, and that is why we have a law before us today that we can support. There is no doubt that the pharmaceutical industry has reached a high level of development and has an appropriate high reputation in the world. However, the fact is that pharmacy activities will also have to adapt to market requirements in one way or another, of course in a way that will be most effective and rational for public health, but also safe at the same time. This is why we have noted in particular the inadequacy of the proposal regarding the possibility of selling certain medicines without a prescription in specialised shops, but later the law has been passed in this direction so that the list of medicines to be sold under such new conditions will be decided by a highly qualified and responsible committee, thereby reducing the risk of harmful consequences of such a decision to a minimum. On the other hand, the second reading adopted an amendment that excludes comparable drugs from the law. And in this sense, the law, I think, has experienced another positive correction, so as it is in the third reading, we see it as good, which is why we will also support it unitedly in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. The first word is Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am also joining our Group's position that, in fact, it is not possible to oppose a law that has been amended at least so much that a new group of medicines, so-called comparable medicines, has not been introduced to prevent access to medicines, particularly those groups of people who would be exposed to high costs of providing medicines that actually work and help them to cope with the problems of chronic diseases. However, we are dissatisfied, and especially personally, because it has not been possible to reduce the possibility of selling medicines more radically in specialised shops. I am confident that, at the expense of this decision or such provisions in the drug law, we will hear of the serious consequences, where everyone who has had anything in the drafting of the legislation in this chapter will be relieved of any responsibilities and probably deny that such a way of selling can also be reflected in certain serious consequences, in the form of death or in any other problem. I wonder whether control over the sale of medicinal products in specialised shops will be very restrictive, as we have heard, because it will be decided by a top-level group of pharmaceutical and health professionals, or whether this control will also provide, we will say, abuse of medicines that will be sold freely without any real professional supervision. Of course, I will support the law and because I believe that it is necessary to coordinate with the European Union, but I hope to say that in the field of selling medicines without prescription in specialised shops, the objective of coordination with the European Union has not been achieved because anyone who does not often visit not only neighbouring countries but also other countries in the European Union can see that there are no medicines, other than supplements such as vitamins and other supplements to the regular daily diet, in fact in these shops. So it would be a claim that we have not heard that this area is also closer to our legislation in the field of medicines for Europe's legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Janez Kramberger. He's not here. My word, Master Majdo Potrat. She's not here. I invite Member Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. He's not here. I invite Ambassador Polonca Dobrajc to speak. She's not here. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. It's not. I invite Ambassador Majdo Shirca to the floor. She's not here. I call on Ambassador Franz Pukšič to the floor. He's not here. I invite Member Bojan Kontic to the floor. He's not here. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to invite a representative of the government, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Good. Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. At the end of this, I would like to say a few more words about the proposed law. I would like to point out from this point that the basic function of the State in the field of medicines is to protect public health and now the proposed law, which I hope will now be adopted, will serve this basic objective. Today, there have been discussions on various problems when it comes to the adoption of this proposal itself, in particular on the question of comparability and the added value of medicines. I think that this problem of comparability in the parliamentary debate or the withdrawal of this bill remains after the withdrawal and we will have to deal with it in one way or another later. In my debate, I would like in particular to highlight the possibility that somehow escaped us here. With the adoption of Article 16 of the Law, there would be two options: the first is that medicines could thus be cheap, especially those that would come new from imports, and, on the other hand, they would also allow for future purchases or payment of certain medicines that are extremely expensive and for which money is unlikely to be sufficient. I think that one option has actually been missed here, but given that there are still other options, I am sure that we will be able to discuss this in the future, and after a proper public debate we will also take appropriate action to resolve these matters. In fact, there are various other options, such as drug supplements and so on, which, of course, are not acceptable to us, neither on the professional side nor on the coalition contract that we adopted at the beginning of our mandate. Of course, this proposal on the comparability of medicinal products also intended to allow for further procedures by law, which would then lead to the implementation of this Article 16, since Article 16, as you know, did not provide for any of the things that were discussed later in the public debate. There was talk of which medicines would be, there was talk of how the system of drug comparability would be, and so on; of course, the proposal for a law in Article 16 did not say anything about this. That's how I think we're gonna talk about this, as I said in the beginning. This year, too, we will be discussing this issue at the end of the first half of the year at the level of European ministers, where the pharmaceutical forum works, and we will also address this issue of the comparability of medicines at European level again. The government and the state will also continue to address the value of medicines. Thus, this week the National Assembly Health Committee has been addressing the issue of access to new expensive biological drugs, where we will have to face again the problems that we have somehow put off by the non-acceptance of Article 16. The law and the establishment of a public agency strengthens the national regulation of medicines needed by the pharmaceutical industry, especially at the level of pharmaceutical supervision. In fact, I must say that this public agency makes it possible for the two institutions operating today to function more rationally in the future. Above all, I think it will be significantly easier to discuss some of the solutions concerning the number of experts who are qualified to do so. The provisions on the transport of medicinal products for retail use also, of course, introduce safe mechanisms for the acquisition of modern ways of selling medicines originating in the European space. However, specialized trades, which have already been well regulated by law today, and I think that the Commission, which will decide which medicines can be sold in these specialised shops, of course under control, I do not consider this to be a control, under control and within inspection services, that this option will be regulated and well managed in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. With the government's word, we have concluded the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 7.3. In accordance with the timely announcement of the time of individual parliamentary groups, please apply for a possible discussion with the articles. I am thus putting to the debate Article 68 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Who wants to speak to this article and, of course, in connection with the amendment? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. We're moving on. I am putting to the debate Article 75 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DesUS. Anybody want a word here? Nobody. I am closing the debate and moving on to the last amendment tabled; I am putting in the debate Rule 102 and the amendments of the same groups of Members, namely SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want a word here? Nobody. This concludes the debate. We have thus concluded by reading the amendments, which, according to the meeting's time frame, will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 23rd agenda or no later than 20 and 55 minutes. Minister, I thank you very much for your participation. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace. In doing so, I inform you that a total time of five hours and 25 minutes has been set for the debate. I will ask if we have representatives of the government join us in our plenary. I ask Members and Members, if they request the government's participation, to suspend the meeting and to ensure or ask whether any of the Members present opposes my proposal to try to ensure the government's participation. Who's up for it? Let him do it with his hands up. Nobody. That means you agree with my proposal. I interrupt the session, given that we are done, I think that just before our pace of work, in 10 minutes, we will try to ensure the participation of a government representative at this time. So we continue with the meeting at 1:00 and 25 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Therefore, we continue with the 23rd item of the agenda. In the meantime, Minister Mate has joined us, welcome. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of ten Members, firstly signed by Majdo Shirca, requesting that the State Assembly hold a general debate. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if you have a procedural proposal, please raise your hand and say it. [[No, no, ……]] Therefore, on the basis of what I have said, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Dragontin Mate, to provide an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I would like to present in short sentences a proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace. First, I'd lean back and say a few words about the old marriage. The Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace, as the current law is called, has been in force since 1974, this is one of the oldest laws we have in the field of internal affairs in the Republic of Slovenia, so that some policemen who have learned about this law have already retired at this time. This law was subjected to 15 serious, more or less serious, amendments to this law at that time. Despite numerous amendments and additions and repeals of certain individual articles, this is a fundamental provision in the field of public order and peace. The fact is that this law, which is currently in force, was written in a spirit of different times, especially different circumstances and social arrangements. Therefore, there are some notions that there is considerable slackness, some provisions that do not follow the terminology and social and social conditions that are currently in the Republic of Slovenia. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to define as clearly and definitively as possible unacceptable social behaviour and to determine appropriate sanctions for them. The proposed law is based on the conclusion that the provision of public order and peace is not only a domain of state authorities, but also the interest of local communities, and therefore the provision on editorial service and the powers that the editorial service at the local level would take over and will take over when the editorial service is organised in the manner appropriate. The basic principles and objectives and main solutions to the bill are: effective public order and peace, with a view to exercising the individual's right to security and dignity as fundamental human goods and constitutional rights, as set out in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. To ensure greater emphasis on the security of individuals in the private space, as the current and current dictatorship has been very loose and does not talk about endangering security in the private space. And the new law defines that more specifically. Establish the responsibility of local communities and the police to ensure security by conferring powers on municipal officials to act in precisely defined and listed cases. Thus, it is not all about giving some authority to the editorial service on average and with the powers the police have. This is very important. Ensure anti-discrimination by creating a specific provision in the law, where higher penalties are provided, if the offence is committed for reasons of discrimination, both religious, political or any other, racial, or otherwise. Expansion of provisions on offences with elements of violence into multiple offences according to their weight. The current regime covered such violations in only one article and very much unified them. The draft law defines in the general provisions the basic concept, such as: what is a public place, what is a private place, what is a public order and peace, what is a fight, how to maintain public order and peace, what is an exaggeration of the foreign flag and how to collect voluntary contributions, which so far has not been clearly defined whether things have been very vague. The second chapter of the proposal lays down offences and sanctions for defined offences. The bill provides, as new offences, for camping in private space, for begging with harassment. I've got to put a special emphasis on what's going on here. We are not talking about the prohibition of begging in general or punishment. We must always look at the initial, introductory chapter and the dictions that are written there, and which describe that it must go to begging with particular harassment with imposition and, above all, that it disturbs other citizens who are moving on public surfaces. Staying in a public place where there is also a disturbance to private property and to the interference of other people where it is more precisely defined how to proceed in these cases. The use of dangerous objects, the use of animals in the event of beatings, the burning of animals to attack a person, which we now do not have defined in the law on public order and peace. Arousing intolerance, a false declaration of a crime, which is now virtually very difficult to sanction or almost impossible to sanction. Offering sexual services by showing off or imposing. Again, it is a matter where we do not want to ban certain matters that are regulated in other legislation, but it is a matter of preventing what is called street prostitution and harassment, interference of adults, especially children. And a completely new option that this law will give if it is adopted; the exclusion of all energy resources in a serious threat to security and peace in some particular environment. In this chapter, there is also an anti-discrimination provision, which I have already described earlier, that in some ways punishes more and more all offences committed because of national, racial, sexual, ethnic, religious or political intolerance, as well as the sexual orientation of individuals. In the third chapter, the draft law regulates the powers to seize items which, at the time of the offence, may be seized by police officers and editors in precisely specified circumstances for directors. In the fourth chapter, the law introduces a special police mandate to ensure public order, which calls for the exclusion of energy resources. In doing so, I would like to say that such exclusion may take place in precisely specified circumstances and may take up to six hours, at which time all the other procedures necessary to ensure public order and peace may be carried out. This procedure can be carried out immediately at the site of the event and is in fact a new mandate that the police would thus acquire. In Chapter 5, the draft law defines the authorities which exercise control over compliance with the provisions of the law. Chapter 6 regulates preliminary and definitive provisions so that the bill is expected to apply after 15 days as usual. With all the above-mentioned proposals, the Government considers that the proposed law is a modern law to introduce new dictions, advanced dictions into this legislation, in line with today's social and social situation, and thus is comparable to modern European solutions, so we propose that the National Assembly examine this law and adopt it when the whole procedure is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Minister, thank you for further explanation of the bill. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups in relation to this law. The position of the SD Group of Members will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace is intended to replace the applicable law on offences against public order and peace, which, according to the applicants, does not correspond because it was written in a spirit of different time and circumstances, although there have been numerous interferences. There were 15 of them, the first in 1976, and in particular more frequent and important in the 1990s until July 2003, when prostitution was decriminalized. In the Social Democrats Group, we are aware of major social changes and new circumstances in more than three decades of old law, so we do not oppose the claim that it is time for a new legal order of order and peace. In doing so, we expect a clear answer in the Group of Social Democrats to the question whether the basic purpose of the law is to comprehensively regulate the area of public order and peace in public and private spaces, which has been duly confirmed in the text. The proposed text is a very general one, and the fundamental question is whether this generality is in favour of or in favour of the marriage text. As we are increasingly witnessing events that do not strengthen a sense of security, the fundamental question is whether anything that threatens an individual, his life and safety, the security of his property and the well-being of public and private premises can be regulated in this law. It is not possible to say with certainty that only the protection of public order and peace will eliminate pursers, traffic accidents and other tragic events that have shaken the Slovenian public in the last three months, as well as domestic violence. We will have to define certain offences and crimes as unacceptable social conduct or a criminal offence first as such and accept their sanction. However, for a variety of unacceptable social behaviour under this law, we must find that it is not sufficiently clear and clearly defined, and the question is also open whether sanctions are appropriate for them. Let me just stop at one case. In an article setting out the scope of individual terms, such as a fight, a definition that is not fully consistent with what can be read about a fight can be found either in a criminal code or read in Article 6. I am talking about the fact that the offence is not only a beating as an act of participants but also an incentive to fight. Given the fines I have mentioned, it would point out that from a systemic point of view it is common for sanctions or fines to be combined in a specific chapter. This enables comparability between the weight of individual offences or the amount of certain fines for individual offences. In fact, there would be another side to another, what it means to sleep in public space and thus a certain fine, or what it is to have a spouse or ex - spouse take a few blows in a closed room. In particular, this Article raises the question whether such provisions, as set out here, may not lead to the conclusion that, under provisions already in the Police Act, I am referring to the provisions on the prohibition of approximation, the idea of the need for a specific law on the prevention of domestic violence, as offences relating to domestic violence are defined in Article 6 and are also punishable by fines. Another consideration applies to Article 11, which is the question of prostitution. Many experts believe that issues related to prostitution should be dealt with in a specific legal text and not in what we are witnessing. This raises a particular question as to whether the provisions enshrined in the law are clear enough not to lead to discretion, namely, those who decide to commit an offence. If we say that it is a crime to offer or impose sexual services in a public place, with a fine of between 50 and 100 thousand dollars, of course, the question arises of how this can be linked to the decriminalisation of prostitution already mentioned, where the very fact of cooperation in this event is not assessed as an offence. In addition, the principle that responsibility for public order and peace is imposed not only on the State but also on the local community raises the question of whether the powers, in particular the competence to act by the criminal authorities, are sufficiently determined not to exceed the powers. Infringements are usually related to offences and actions related to offences can normally also be dealt with by means of sub-legislative acts. It is therefore appropriate to ask the proposers whether a test has been carried out as to how the provisions of this law will be feasible in practice. Whether it is also possible to draw up a manual or other instructions for police officers and editors to set precise standards of conduct and to ensure standardised conduct in all cases of equal misdemeanour. But let me end with a simple conclusion. The draft law was clearly accompanied by the view that there are no controversial provisions relating to the assessment of morality or immorality of conduct. However, it cannot be overlooked that moral or immoral conduct is being replaced by some equally highly judgmental, inaccuracies-specific expressions such as "inadequate behaviour or misconduct towards officials", which is always linked to personal assessment and identification of such conduct. What's not the last "disturbing public"? Where does the excitement start? For those serious infringements, it will not be difficult to determine, but it is difficult to determine the first stage, which means public harassment. Violent and presumptuous conduct will be equally difficult or urgently necessary. Where do adrenaline sports come from? Does it put me in a group that has been harassing the public for as long as the life of an individual has been shaking? Well, we have experienced such a case in the past. I would like to stress in particular that in the Group of Social Democrats, I repeat, the reform of the Law on Public Order and Peace seems necessary, but in so many places it is too clear that the general discretionary right of the police to such an extent is enabled that we are not inclined to the position that this law is suitable for further consideration. We therefore believe that it is necessary to have an answer to the question of what the professional public thinks about the bill. We therefore believe that at least what can be expected is a public presentation of opinions on this law and then decide how to proceed with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you, Chairman. Welcome to the Minister and to your fellow Members. The Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace was adopted in 1974 and has undergone 15 changes and is therefore outdated and no longer in line with the needs of today. The Constitution lays down the obligation to ensure the right to personal dignity and security, and the State is committed by effective work of the competent authorities to ensuring security for people in the personal and property fields. It is therefore important to act in a timely manner when the future victim warns and asks for intervention, and precisely because of the effective protection of the individual's right to protection and dignity, a new law, a comprehensive law, must be adopted. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that this is also a delicate area because people, for example, do not like graffiti in their own house, but if it is in their neighborhood, some even think that it is artistic work. The same is true of public speaking. In principle, nothing bothers us if we are greeted by a "klošar" kindly and explains that our friends are gathering for a letter, but we are not comfortable, it seems to us even impervious if when we pay parking over there, before Maximarket, it looks at the wallet and follows us even to the car, so certain regulations are necessary, they are necessary. In our parliamentary group, it seems to us, therefore, that the failure of some of the criticisms of the bill in certain articles of the law is not constructive; it is said that the exception of individual cases which may, however, at first sight be convincing, should not give a black picture over the integrated regulation of this area. According to the structure, there are slightly more than 40,000 violations, some less than half of them related to fighting and drinking, followed by disturbances to night peace, the most violations were committed on the roads and streets, followed by violations in apartments and inns. Regarding various sources of noise, people are turning not only to the police but also to the Ombudsman. Above all, this is a disruptive way of operating guest and other venues, as well as the noise of public events or noise arising from prohibited activities. The law here empowers a police officer as the extreme measure for an oral order to order the operator to exclude the supply of electricity, gas or water to the offender, where this is, of course, a proportionate measure in relation to the infringement. While this is a great mandate for the police, it is difficult to expect consistent compliance with the legal provisions and, in particular, the actual possibility or inability to act by the competent authorities without appropriate sanctions. The Lip case is not the only case, but it is one more tragic. The law also responds to the problem we face in the area of family problems. Of course, this is an integrated response in the interinstitutional cooperation of the various bodies, both law enforcement authorities and social work centres. However, the proposal for a law under Article 6, paragraph 3, specifically protects family and related relationships that were not specifically defined in the previous law. The provisions thus protect individuals from domestic violence both in private premises, in closed rooms and in a public place. Of course, it's important how active the role of the police will be. The same applies to the provision for sanctioning vandalism. Vandalism really is a city phenomenon, but it's everywhere. The mandate for the expression of sanctions will also have red tape in addition to the police, but more than sanctions on the amount of costs incurred in this respect will be important preventive action, especially in the more frequent walks of police officers and editors at critical points, particularly in those, you could say corridors where young people return from their parties. Vandalism is not only a controversial moral issue but also a major financial weight, as the figures show. For example, in the budget of the municipality of Ljubljana, one billion were envisaged for this purpose to remedy the damage of vandalism. What better way to spend this money? For example, for children's playground equipment. Well, now let's hear from those who say it means some police patrol more on the city street or the market already a police state. No, no, no. At the appropriate approach of the police and the editors, this action means simple prevention. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the legislative proposal contains appropriate solutions, as the presumption of infringements in the introductory provisions defines infringements, infringements, infringements of one person against an individual or society. It also seems appropriate to us to resolve the transfer of powers for individual control of infringements to municipal officials, of course we do not support and would not undermine the extension of these powers. Of course, we are also open to a new solution if, during today's general debate, it proves justified. To conclude, at this first reading, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! As most of you, who have already represented the views of the parliamentary groups, have found that the current law on offences against public order and peace has been passed since long ago in 1974, it is perfectly logical that, despite many changes, a new law is needed to regulate the area of public order and peace in accordance with current social trends. In general, the proposed law could be regarded as a good one, since it systematically regulates the area of public order and peace. However, it is likely that some provisions of the law will still need to be discussed or considered to address certain issues that are not addressed in our opinion by the draft law. Today is likely to be the biggest debate on those provisions of the bill regulating or introducing new offences and on a new specific measure to ensure order and peace, namely the exclusion of energy resources. With the new offences introduced by the proposed law, we agree in the Slovenian People's Party, but we point out that in controlling and passing fines, these offences will require much more consistency than has been the case so far. Only practice can show us the effectiveness of control over certain new offences. The bill also defines new offences such as vandalism, false reporting of the offence and camping on private land or space without the consent of the owners. There are probably no comments on these violations. With regard to vandalism, it should be pointed out that the destruction of economic public infrastructure causes enormous material damage. The morning walk by which one of our cities shows interesting but no fine sculpture of broken benches or broken lights, which were probably destroyed by drunk - minded individuals at night. Such conduct causes much damage that someone has to pay. The amounts intended to repair this damage sometimes reach dizzying numbers. Therefore, Article 17 of the proposed law is more than welcome. With regard to the false declaration of an offence, all the grounds for determining the conduct as an offence and the arrangements for the law under consideration are also given. With regard to begging, it should be pointed out that begging is defined as an offence if someone is begging in an intrusive or offensive way. In practice, of course, this means, at least in my opinion and understanding, that the begging carried out by the Ljubljana rascals is not such that it is not subject to the provisions of this Article. Thus, it is only a matter of cases where a person is intrusive and abusive toward the one he wants to get something from. The police responsible for identifying this offence will have to be flexible and take into account the purpose of this offence, which is well broken down and is able to understand this fragmentation in explanation of Article 9 of the Act under consideration. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support Article 11 of the Law, which aims to prevent or restrict street prostitution. In doing so, of course, we want to protect the youth and all other citizens and citizens from the so-called street prostitution taking place in public places and interrupting the passing individuals or individuals. If we have visited one of the famous European cities or observed road accidents on the roads of some Eastern countries, we can peacefully claim that we do not want to see such images of Slovenia and of Slovenia. Regardless of what you think or think about this trade, whether we support it or not, in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that road prostitution is undesirable and cannot have any positive effects. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we particularly wish to express our agreement with Article 28 of the bill regulating the exclusion of energy resources as a special measure to ensure public order and peace. In the past, it has often happened and is still happening today that the police cannot act in the event of disturbances to public order and peace due to procedural provisions. The most often necessary is the order of the competent judge for the house investigation, which most often takes a long time to obtain this relevant act. Secondly, those citizens and citizens directly affected by public order and peace want immediate and effective intervention by the competent authorities. This special measure, of course, represents nothing but a temporary measure, most after the proposal of the Law, a lasting measure which police officers will only be able to carry out if they fail to prevent further infringements with other measures. At the same time, they will also have to respect the principle of proportionality, since in practice such a measure should therefore not be used very often or only in truly justified cases. Unfortunately, there is no protection for minors in the new bill. Whoever has reviewed the current law on crimes against public order and peace in 1974 and the proposal for a new law on the protection of public order and peace has surely noticed another fact. The law currently in force also contains a sub-chapter entitled Protection of minors, and the new proposal does not specifically regulate offences aimed at protecting minors. Thus, under the protection of minors, the current law stipulated that minors should not go to nightclubs, nor should minors who have reached the age of 15 be allowed to attend events that are publicly declared unfit for minors. The third paragraph regulated the way in which alcoholic beverages are poured to minors who have not yet reached the age of 15. This paragraph was modified or amended in the amended alcohol law. We probably all agree that the law in force concerning the protection of minors did not provide for much, in particular the prohibition of attending events which have been publicly declared inappropriate for young people, according to my behaviour in reality. In addition, it is worth noting that the pouring of alcoholic beverages to minors, as laid down in paragraph 3 of the current law, has regulated in more detail and systematically the alcohol consumption law mentioned above. Why, though, does the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace in a new way not include the protection of minors? All Members of Parliament and the general Slovenian public probably agree that minors are a special category that needs special attention, including our own. If not otherwise, we all agree that there should be a ban on entry into nightclubs in future young people under 15 years of age, especially at the end of last year's year events have clearly shown that there are many things that are not and cannot be in the interest of parents, not of the country or of anyone else. What can we do about minors in this marriage? We could say that the situation in modern society is what it is. Many would say that we blame ourselves for the situation and that the long-term and negative consequences of modern capitalism cannot be avoided. Teenagers, who, despite a clear alcohol restriction law, are allowed to enter restaurants, including nightclubs, and various entertainments, are directly subjected to alcohol. It may be said that this does not concern the law itself on the protection of public order and peace, but I firmly believe that minors under the influence of alcohol are very common perpetrators of many offences, which are also referred to in the new bill. Let him mention only vandalism. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the protection of minors should also be systematically regulated. There is absolutely no reason why under the new law sanctions should not be the entry of less than 15 years into nightclubs. Of course, there are more possibilities for regulating the protection of minors, perhaps the best way to be a special law, which could be the only one that could systematically address this issue and this area. However, since there is no such law at present and there is no procedure, it is appropriate to reconsider the inclusion of a chapter in this law, a chapter to be called the Protection of Juveniles in the context of the general debate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not defend the view that a unconditional introduction of "hora legalis" is necessary for young people or under 18 years of age. This is a very restrictive measure, however, which would certainly have some effect after a certain time by preventing alcohol from entering places under 18 years of age. It is clear that this would not solve the source of the problem that young people today want to have fun or alcohol, but would present very clear criteria. On this occasion, however, I would like to highlight some of the facts which are very well known or visible from the research prepared by the research-documentation sector of the National Assembly and which is accessible to all on the National Assembly website. This task has the address of the entrance of minors to bars and access to alcoholic beverages. We are convinced that it is minors who represent a large proportion of alcoholic drinkers, especially when it comes to night parties in discotheques and nightclubs. As a result, young people are often involved in various events that can be categorized as disturbing public order and peace. It is clear from the research that there is a strong correlation between risky forms of beer behaviour, violence, traffic and other accidents, disability and even disability with the outcome of death. In addition, it has been shown that individuals who start using alcohol in their youth are, in fact, more exposed to alcohol addiction. Let me just mention from the survey that the costs of temporary absence from work, hospitalisation and early death due to alcohol in 2002 required 16 and a half billion public funds. The survey also confirmed my suspicion and claim that I made in the event of unloved events at the end of last year, which claimed the death of three young girls. Legislation in Slovenia in the field of the protection of minors with regard to the pouring of alcoholic beverages is good and comparable with the other countries of the European Union. However, there is a complication in the field of control over the implementation of regulations that are, as it were, comparable to Europe. It is obvious that despite good legislation, minors have no difficulty in interfering with alcohol in shops, inns, and in mass entertainment, while the sellers of these drinks offered to minors have not been punished or punished, despite clear provisions of the alcohol restriction law. This area is regulated in detail by the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Alcohol. For the control of the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors in catering establishments and shops, three different authorities are competent under this law, each in their own field: the police and the health inspectorate are responsible for controlling the supply of alcoholic beverages to minors in catering establishments and the market inspectorate is responsible for controlling the sale of alcoholic beverages in shops. If I now return to the law that is under general discussion today, namely the law on the protection of public order and peace, I still believe that the protection of minors needs to be better regulated, in particular with regard to allowing minors to have alcoholic beverages. We are therefore proposing a solution and an extension of the law by regulating the protection of minors and, in this regard, it seems reasonable to establish new powers of the police in cases where offences under other laws would be committed that would endanger the health and protection of minors. In these cases, the police should have sufficient effective measures to protect minors. We propose a similar measure, as now provided for in Article 28 of the Act, to prevent the continuation of the offence. The law should allow the police to order, in the case of a second or third-time infringement, a particular inn or an organisation concerning the pouring of alcoholic beverages to minors, the police may order the immediate closure of the premises for a certain number of hours. This could at least be partially regulated under Article 22 of the Act in question and which regulates the order in the guesthouses. This will undoubtedly make it possible for guest restaurants or event organizers to respect unconditionally the laws guaranteeing the protection of minors from alcohol. However, there is a need to pay much more attention to preventive projects and actions in all areas. It is our job to take or to take appropriate measures that will benefit young people in the long run. All responsible should pay more attention to promoting activities that enable the active enjoyment of the free time of our young citizens and citizens. We need to encourage and enable young people to participate in sports activities and various civil society organisations, which are undoubtedly the best guarantee and protection against events that are even a threat to young people's lives. Only with the very clear criteria laid down in the legislation and with their consistent respect for and monitoring of implementation do we come up with the preconditions necessary for the successful and effective supply of an alternative to the fair, healthy and happy life of the entire population. Whether it be youth or alcohol, or all citizens and citizens, or public order and peace. Regardless of the indications, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft law at first reading. We propose to the proposers, this is the Ministry of the Interior, to explore the possibility of resolving these areas, which we have highlighted as problematic and which, in our opinion, are not sufficiently regulated in the proposed law on the protection of public order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you, Comrade Bajc. Presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be made by Mr Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The current Act on Offences was adopted in 1974 and by this year 15 times, which merely means that the area of offences, violations of public order and peace is changing mainly due to changes in time, customs and possibly because there has been a lot of talk about minors, including the way in which minors live. The law before us, in our opinion, is extending rights to police, city officials and city guards, but in the wrong direction, according to the Slovenian National Party. If we extended the powers of police officers in the context of existing crimes or offences, we would also understand the matter. This law, however, extends powers towards the enforcement of many offences. In the general provisions, the draft law defines basic concepts such as public order, private space, public order and peace, the maintenance of public order, the exaggeration of foreign flags and the collection of voluntary contributions, as in the law you call recruitment. The basic principle of the law is clear and determined to define unacceptable social behaviour and to provide for appropriate sanctions. When we look at the law a little bit better, we see that it actually introduces a police state into Slovenia. I wonder if there is no danger that the current ruling elite, because we know that through laws there is much to do, does not try to impose its own "Christianly oriented values" in pronouns and its view of moral behaviour. Above all, there's a lot of talk about morality in the law. I want to know what she had to do. We know it's not the police, but if we move forward, we'll go to the city officials, but if we move from the city officials to the city guards, we know that they have no morals, no ethics, no philosophy, no sociology is present for just one year. Who, then, is the one who will determine what is moral today or what is not moral today? While we still do not have a law on family violence in this country, very little is done to prevent child abuse. But we have a law that will determine what is moral. I wonder whether it is moral for a member of this national council to write letters to someone who was suspected of performing pedophilia and simply write a letter to this girl saying that, say, at least 40% of her allegations were made. Is that moral? I also want to know if it's moral or whether there's a minister who's going to take away the microphone from the press. Is that moral? I don't think so. I would like to know whether in this case the municipal director of the Ljubljana municipality or the police officer will crash into the National Assembly and punish this minister. We also find unacceptable conduct in the law. Who is the one who can define them? What is unacceptable? This proposal gives the police very high powers, giving even higher powers to city officials. The law very poorly defines concepts, such as misconduct, which introduces disorder and the principle of arbitrary subjective interpretations of what is immoral. One morning a police officer may simply awaken from bad will, or someone knows what to do with someone from a certain place, or a city editor, whom we know to be employed by more or less in the city’s congregations through public works, and he simply accuses you of immoral conduct because, I don’t know, you stepped wrong on the road from the sidewalk. I may be a little generalized, but the law simply gives that opportunity. Inaccuracies are defined as violent begging. What is this violent chatter? This government prohibits the begging, the way of life chosen by a particular group of people. It's violent begging if someone comes to me when I park either in Maribor or in Ljubljana and says, "Is it possible tolar?" In most cases, these people have chosen this way of life, and on the other hand, the country is forcing them to beg. Last but not least, if we look at the sub-programme of social protection, to which begging belongs, this government has reduced funding by as many as a few million Slovenian tolars in the preparation of the budget. I would also ask for an answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what is this abusive begging. I agree that it is necessary to prohibit the begging that is organized. We know that this is very large in Slovenia, especially in larger cities, when we see people of foreign nationality on the streets, or I will be more specific, especially gypsies lying on the streets with children under five years of age and asking for money. But we all know that in two hours, when their working hours run out, a van comes for them, usually one of the better brands, picks them up and collects the money they've collected. In such a case, I agree, not only that there is abusive begging, but also that there is a violation of human rights and of certain legal standards. I can also tell you, Mr Minister, when you are present, the case from Maribor, when I called the telephone number that was accessible to all and one of such cases was reported, but unfortunately at the then police station they decided that they were not competent to solve these cases and the begging simply continued. As far as offering sexual services is concerned, street prostitution. How much do we have in Slovenia? Let us ask ourselves which one of us has already met a street vendor of love on the street. I have to say that I do not have this experience, and I believe that street prostitution is not available in Slovenia. We have some other form of sexual services, but certainly not street prostitution. And I wonder if this is not exactly the problem that we would need to settle in a special law that we have been expecting for quite some time in this National Assembly. Also interesting is the fine, threatened to go back to begging for hurtful begging. Twenty thousand dollars is a fine. I'm just wondering where you're gonna find that beggar you're going to dig up for insulting begging to pay you 20,000 Slovenian tolls. I don't know what address you'll be looking for. When I touch on questions about the seizure of items. If we take the example of neighbors, whether they be receptive neighbors or rightly concerned neighbours when it comes to - I will use the term used by youth, the cheering of loud music - and under this law you have the right to inform the competent authority. I'm sure it's, I don't know, an electrical company on call, but let Maribor be a municipality to shut down the electricity. It sounds funny, and I doubt that this on-call service will come, and I'll put myself on the case, because I'm relatively young, at my house, she took my guard and then left. You know, this is an invasion of privacy, and believe me, longer than the front door of my apartment, these people wouldn't have come. But I'd turn the music down anyway. Financial implications. The law states that there will be no financial consequences. As you extend your powers and increase your cases of violations and violations of public order and peace, I ask on a reasonable basis whether it may not be necessary to hire any more police officers and provide them with a monthly salary. In my opinion, yes, and this will also have certain financial implications for the state budget. In view of all the above, we rightly expect in the Slovenian National Party that you will provide us with answers, perhaps on some questions that have been asked more comically but seriously. If we do not get these answers, we will vote against the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Let me say, as an introduction, without wanting to be an exaggerated picker, but we've heard some introductory presentations, God has shown mercy to minors, and to those who have accumulated a few years, but not yet. The law we have before us needs to be changed for sure. A supplement is needed. He has ambition after an update, which we also support in the DeSUS Group. Not just for the sake of this, because he is as old as was mentioned many times, but because this law also introduces some novelty. One of these, by the way, is that we are talking now in this law or in the proposal quite a bit about private spaces. And the address is already a little too narrow. Now it is not enough to say that we are talking about the law on public order and peace, because it is a large part, according to statistics, of about one quarter of the interventions we are talking about in private spaces. Perhaps so simply to consider whether this address still fits or whether it has become somewhat narrow. Most of these offences are in public spaces, we have found 75% and 25% in private premises. Most are those who actually come from the socially unadjusted lives of many individuals. Perhaps when individual provisions are prepared, this little in front of me at all times, and perhaps anyone else, seems to be missing the basis on which this law would build individual provisions, the design somehow seems to be lacking. Now is the time for us to make some comments in this regard, because we are at the beginning of this process and, of course, if the proposer wants to get our support, there is something else to change. The aim of the law, as the proposalr explicitly states, is more systematic, integrated regulation of the protection of order and peace. Of course, it is also about morality, respect, security, dignity, particularly about the individual. However, the essential task, as it continues, is to ensure clarity, as it were, the rigour and determination of individual articles, sanctions, offences, etc. And right here, I think, failed. These rigors, these claritys are missing, so I'm just losing myself trying to understand something or especially when we're trying to compare something. Such more general comments, which will of course be the clear answer, "a, ha, we expected," are general comments, but we make these general comments because also the weaknesses are so general that no one can simply overlook them. It is, therefore, that, at least after the feeling of some slightly too much arbitration, in our view, it has already been said today, too many discretionary rights can be expected. That it is possible that subjectivism, subjective evaluations will be overly enforced and that we have no exaggerating reasons to claim that what is stated in this law is objectively objective, that something is not to be overly thought about, that it is not possible to think too much when we make a decision. It is perhaps too great, if I mention it, to have faith in how we will now help local communities to deal with all the situations listed here. I fear that in most of the smaller local communities this will not be so successful, perhaps in the larger ones it is going to be, but in the smaller ones, organisational, financial and other problems it will not be quite easy to do so. But the main problem remains, at least that's how I see it, the problem of the right measure. What is what is actually a crime, what is a non-infringement and, of course, the problem of attachment more to the consequences, more to the response of someone than the action that will or will not happen alone. Strict separation, strict clarity, so what was foretold is somehow getting away from us. I'll try some cases, maybe I'd say plastic, show why I think so. For example, the talk is about who to punish if people fight each other. The penalty or fine is supposed to be up to 300,000 tolars. When only each other is beaten, so when greater aggression is shown, then the fine is half the size. And that doesn't make any sense. When we talk about fights in sports courts, where we send young people, where we say, send them there, with the wind in their hair against drugs and so on, there is no longer a crime of beating. There's a thing, it says, a matter of judge and professional organization to discuss and decide. That would probably help you to think about it even more thoroughly. But it explicitly says that it's not a violation. Anyone who dares in a fight can be punished with 120,000 tolars, and whoever fights with the 80s. Then put this together, if you can, with some normal logic. Of course, I have nothing against not being misunderstood, the care in closed rooms, in dwellings, but it has also raised some attention to me, when it is written that anyone who challenges a relative can be punished up to 300,000 dollars, who beats someone else, with one or twice the amount. Some of these weaknesses, I'm going to count them now, are also in an area that has already been mentioned and I'm going to compare. Anyone in a public place, for example, yells, takes a public place here before parliament, can be punished with 100,000 tolars. Anyone in a public place, let's say that he is in front of parliament, sexually speaking, can be punished with 50,000 tolars. And now I can imagine two Members coming, because everything depends on response, and one starts shouting and screaming, calls the police, and I don't know who else, and to the other one it suits, order a chair, sit down, and see it quietly. And then it even happens that the two of them who were doing something earlier that was supposed to be a felony are leaving, and the two of them, who missed a bit of time, are caught up in the fight and they're being punished. So now I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but that's theoretically possible. This is what this law says, so I would like to point out that this exaggerated generality, this excessive reproducibility, may be worth reconsidering. Interestingly, the proponents referred to Plato, but he had nothing in mind when he wrote about sexual intercourse. For example, reading is one of those things that has already been on the wallpaper today, and it bothers me, not because they are rambling. It bothers me more because every day when I go to work, three, four hands go up against me, and I never know if it's because someone's thirsty, whether it's because of that, these are young girls, boys, almost not the children who are gathering up to do drugs later or for any other reason. And I have to say that, aside from these concerns, they themselves do not bother me any more than they offer me by stepping in front of me and making it impossible for me to take a free trip, religious literature, or, I don't know what exoticism they offer me, and they also bother me, shopping catalogues at major malls and so on. In short, it seems to me that some of the things we've mixed up here are too much and that we're going to have a hard time separating what's right and what's wrong with the operation. And, by the way, for the record, it's an unworthy attitude towards officials. But here there will be a big problem, because when someone understands that he's an official person, it's only my belief that maybe he's not doing the right thing, he's going to punish me with some significant amount, but a calm soul, as we said before, will punish someone else who's going to fight, maybe 70 or 80 grand. We suggest that the proposer reconsider certain content. Some are good and we accept them, but some are worth repairing, and the next treatment is probably enough time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I also have on my list a presentation of the position of the Hungarian National Community delegation, Marika Pozsonec. [[She's not here.]] We continue, Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, and all others present! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace is suitable for further consideration. As has already been heard today, the current Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace, adopted in 1974, has been completed and amended as many as fifteen times during the period of validity. The fact is that it was written at a different time, in a different social order, different circumstances and that the provisions still in force no longer correspond to the changed social and social situation. The introductory explanation of the bill provides a table of violations of the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace in the years 2002 to 2004, from which the structure of the infringement is apparent, namely that 46% of the infringement is a dispute and a complaint that 25% is a violation of the law against public order and peace in the years 2002 to 2004, and 12% of the infringements constitute a misbehaviour to the official, and all other violations, such as drunkenness, beatings, beatings, shootings and other violations, represent the remaining 16%. The main purpose of the proposed law is to define fully unacceptable social practices against the protection of public order and peace in public and private areas and to lay down appropriate fines for infringements. From this basic purpose, however, fundamental principles, objectives and solutions have been derived through the substantive provisions of the proposed law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we particularly support, inter alia, a provision that gives the police a special mandate to exclude energy resources for the necessary time to stop the offence, in the event that no public order and peace could be achieved with other minor measures. Such violations, however, have been increasing and more recently, even with tragic consequences, according to the bill's proponents. In our parliamentary group, we are aware that Slovenian society is increasingly meeting with already known, as well as new, forms of rejection. However, the police and other responsible and empowered authorities can only act successfully if they have the appropriate and clear legal powers to do so. Public order and peace are good things that we know when they are broken. They are therefore the good of everyday work and of life, which ensure a secure and peaceful feeling. And it's a minimum of social rules that people understand as necessary for cohabitation in the environment in which we live. These goods, however, are known most of the time only when they are broken. At that time, everyone's expectations are to act quickly and regulate the state of public order and peace. The proposed law provides a good legal basis for our country to become a safe, legal, democratic and friendly society for the coexistence of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which will not be achieved without the implementation of the law in practice. This also means having a well-organised, trained and efficient police and other responsible and empowered authorities. For all of this, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you for the report and we are moving on to the presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Dr Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we believe that the law on the protection of public order and peace is not suitable for further consideration, because in our opinion, this proposal contains too many vague and vague provisions allowing police officers and officials, municipal officials, great discretion in the assessment of when the infringements occurred, as well as great discretion in dealing with alleged violators. If we think that this law replaces a regulation that has already been adopted in 1974, which has highlighted many debaters, and in a very different situation where the values of individuality, diversity, tolerance and non-interference in the freedoms of others were not particularly appreciated, we must be appalled at the degree of courtesy and also the reprisals of the current bill. In our view, the bill violates the rule of law because of provisions that allow for too much discretion and very different conduct in similar or equal situations. The principle of certainty and clarity of regulations is therefore violated. Terms such as harassment or harassment are highly subjective and are clearly subject to different interpretations. For example, if I make a little joke, I am very dismayed about this law, but I think, Mr Minister, that you should be fined or taken before a criminal judge. What is moral and what is not, is subject to subjective judgment and certain social circumstances, which also change greatly throughout the history of human society. Therefore, socially unacceptable behaviour should be determined by certain objective criteria, namely whether certain behaviours and behaviours endanger the behaviour and behaviour of others. At that time, we could set some criteria by which we could tell what is the subject of public regulation of public order and peace. That's not in the marriage. The concept of public harassment has particularly upset me if I may say so. And this term should disappear from this law because it's contaminated. I have to tell my personal experience here, even though that's not good. In the 1980s, I was president of an alternative subculture organization, and I literally upset public order and peace every day. Every day it was the excitement of public order and peace. And those who today receive Prešeren's prizes and are famous, renowned artists, aesthetics, and ambassadors of Slovenia, have been upset every day in this organization, or have repeatedly disturbed public order and peace with each event. And such a concept is, in fact, not part of such a law, into such a country, a democratically regulated society and a state. The law clearly confers greater powers on the police and should therefore be specified in more detail. More than powers, there has to be some way of defining the conduct and qualifications of this mandate. As has already been said, definitions of violent begging, illicit sex service offering, [[What's allowed?]] and similar loose definitions transform public spaces into a controlled area and abolish the area of civility. There are also many opportunities for irony, jokes, humor, cynicism and so on. I agree, the beggar you will, or the man who is begging, and in some ways doing this violently, you will go down 20,000. Then what? A police officer with him will raise this 20,000 to pay the fine and so on. Then they'll both pick up a little bit to pay the fine and so on. The type of stunts will appear on this matter without need and also unnecessary degradation of the public police service at this level. Public order and peace must be safeguarded. However, not to establish an appropriate standard of conduct with a country, but to allow for the coexistence of different styles of ethics, morals and lifestyles, without jeopardising the rights and freedoms of others. What is presented in this law is, in fact, a kind of national household order that is to be observed by all residents in the country. And this mess that citizens would voluntarily agree to and voluntarily renounce certain rights, individualities, lifestyles, which today is mainly in the Western world, for example, in the United States in so-called fenced communities, housing, even happening. People give up their freedoms, their visits, etc. because they want to have some order, and that's their story that goes in here. Here, however, we are forced to renounce such rights in this residential community of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are forced into some order, which oversimplifies without need. The State is also represented here as owner and regulator of civil society on matters that should not be regulated or, at least, not regulated in this way. That is why vandalism, right, I agree with the fact that vandalism is mentioned and is sanctioned, vandalism is huge and it is more and more, but this law, even if it is sanctioned by this vandalism, will be able to grab someone there who will just flip over the trash can or worse, but will not eliminate vandalism. We need to ask ourselves where vandalism would come from. We need to ask ourselves why there has been a degradation of the public sphere in cities, settlements and markets. We need to ask ourselves why people don't identify themselves anymore, why they don't take the city as their own. Why do they hire local communities as their own, why do they take this as something foreign, as something hostile to them? When we ask ourselves this, we may say, Mr. Police Minister, it's only right if you find someone and take them down for $60,000 because he turned over the bucket, but that's not your problem. This isn't your problem, and it's not a police problem, and this law won't solve it either. That's what I was gonna say. There was a lot of talk or references to the tragic events in front of the Lipa restaurant at the end of last year. Of course, this is an extremely tragic event; of course, everything must be done, including the analysis of all the acts that have been or have not been done, including the legislation, so that something like this will never happen again. But I tell you now, not as a Member, but as a person who monitors social events in other ways, we can do all of this, but we will never be able to rule out the possibility that such or similar things would still happen. This is what we today call a risk society. This is the fact that, in fact, in a few thousand evenings at discotheques, you may experience unexpected, uncontrollable events that cannot be prevented. Not with such strict public order, not by locking minors up until the age of 18 in pillows, in a controlled environment at home or anything, and then letting them into an ugly world. We can do all of this, but it cannot be ruled out. At the same time, the companies ahead of us had other risks. How many newborns have died and so on. So, every society has its own risks, we need to know how to deal with them and live with them. And that's not a problem of public order and peace. The problem with this law is simply that it has not broken the ties of the previous law, that it has not been able to understand that it regulates free and civil society, that it regulates what people will agree between themselves to deregulation. And the problem is that, under the pretext of maintaining public order and peace, he tries to get under the skin of citizens and in a relatively indeterminate way prescribes them what is right, what is right, what is right, what is moral behavior, which prescribes the form of a standard, obedient citizen. And that's not good. It's not a step forward, it's the least bargaining on the spot compared to the old law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. I give my word to Ambassador Miran Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We discussed the content of the draft law on the protection of public order and peace several times in the Group of Social Democrats. I will not say that we have been in every detail of the same opinion, nor is today's debate, but we have nevertheless united ourselves in the fact that we undoubtedly need a new law on the protection of public order and peace after 30 years in order to really, really think carefully and listen to each other before we finally accept it. Today, our citizens and citizens, if you ask them in general, have listened to many street surveys, want more public order and peace. And if you only listened to this fact, you would probably expect that law to bring more order and peace through more repression. But that's not good. By the repression of order and peace alone we will not create, on the contrary, we will only be able to overwhelm it in a new way, so the appropriate distinction between prescription is illegal, between sanctioning an illegal and between common social education and tolerance, which is the true measure which we have not yet found in this law. I would therefore agree more with those who warn whether this law is clear and precise enough to satisfy the needs of a regulated society, or is so vague and imprecise that it gives the police too many tasks, I will not say too much authority, but too many tasks, too much expectations at the end of all of us, what will be done if the new law is adopted, and what we will achieve. And I have heard some of this great expectation from some of my colleagues today. Let us adopt the law, and we will have excellent order and also public order and peace. I'm afraid these are too many illusions. That is why I would like to draw attention to some of the issues which I do not think are properly regulated in the law, but first to ask whether and how professional it is in this area, because I have read some opinions and pointed out that the law applies to areas which should not be regulated in this way; that the law does not have a clear distinction at the end of the day, not even between what the offence is, what the offence is; that the law regarding the alleged illegal acts is not sufficiently established, but we know, and that the Minister and the co-worker will no doubt admit that, if there is, the standards must be established when the rules which prohibit something are described, even more so than in other cases. I think this would require a clear assessment, because discretion in punishing illegal acts, unless it was exceptionally expressly prescribed - and I did not find this in this law - this discretion is not possible. It is neither possible nor permitted, otherwise excessive powers and responsibilities are given to authorities with powers of action. And now a few concrete things. See, Articles 5 and 18 have the same title, I will not say that it is the exact same content, both of which are to collect voluntary contributions or once to collect voluntary contributions, once for voluntary contributions, the content is very similar. It probably happens, but it doesn't give us a special conviction that things are really serious enough and concretely designed. Personally, as some colleagues have said, I am disturbed by the description of the conduct that indicates the subjective evaluation of passing visitors, escorts and the like, and say, "...who argues in a public place, yells or behaves indecently in a way that causes harassment or harassment of people." Very hard, well, I must say. If we do not know and are not able to do the description in a more concrete and definite way, then it is left to those who accidentally pass. And now I'm gonna turn on the joke, too, if someone yells and I don't hear right, it bothers me less, than if someone yells and hears right. It's a little joke, but it's very hard. Then there are things like, "...who in an intrusive or offensive way harasses someone by begging." This is clearly my subjective judgement of what is an insidious or offensive way. It's very difficult to objectify. And until it is objectified, it is very difficult to say that the actual state of such an offence is so clearly written that it does not leave to me and then to the policeman to confront the debate as to whether the way was offensive and intrusive. Because perhaps it is for me and I will say that the offence of begging in a public place is committed, the policeman will say, excuse me, this way is neither intrusive nor offensive, and therefore will not count the act as an offence. It is similar to spending the night in a public place and with such behavior that it upsets someone. And not to mention such cases as many. I believe that they are not properly defined and do not provide sufficient grounds for a clear definition of criminality. I must say, we have had some discussions on this law with people working with the profession. Even the end of people who, I would say, were sometimes in a position to act or to act. We have been warned that it will be very difficult for law enforcement authorities, that it will be very difficult for police officers, that it will be very difficult for editors if they have to decide in situations where the description of some conduct is unclear. That it is much better to have a minor offense, or the possibility of punishment in some minor cases, is indisputably clear to the one who does so to do something wrong, and also to the one who watches it, to the one who may be punished. Therefore, we would like to make sure that, with the satisfaction and warnings that we understand each other at the time of the marriage, because it is certainly matters which are extremely sensitive, about which we have different views, and I think that the Minister should, we expect him to provide some clear explanations on the issues that we are asking, in particular, that he should be acceptable to warnings that at least the public postponement of opinions should be made, that he should call criminal and other professionals to speak about many issues and that he should be given the opportunity to adopt a law that we can then also implement, and not that he would create any uncomfortable feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Member Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today, much has been said about public order and peace. I also agree with some things, perhaps not entirely, but with some of them, of course not. And that's exactly what I want to talk about, because public order itself and peace is a very subjective matter. It's not like 5 times 5 is 25 and the case is closed. It is also a matter of norms and a matter of distance or, if you want, also a matter of culture. Some things are acceptable to someone else and others are already on the other side of the border, but they are no longer acceptable because they simply cannot be defined without being evaluated without being able to write with numbers 1, 2, 3, 4. Up to four is fine, and from there it's gone. I do not agree with all of this, if everything was not clearly defined in the law, precisely that the police will know exactly, have a manual, the police will look, the manual is acceptable, and that is no longer the case. That's not possible, because this stuff is such that it can't be done. Last but not least, other things don't define everything. Last but not least for one judge, if I skip as a comparison, there's enough evidence to convict someone or put him in further proceedings, and for another judge it's not and he's forgiven. It is said, neither is it concerned so clearly, so defined, public order and peace is even more, forgive the expression, abstract matter which, as I said, is a matter of norms, distances, cultures, whatever, subjective judgment matter and cannot be regulated with any manual of this matter. I'd like every single thing to be made clear. Everywhere you can measure, weigh, it's clear. But where judges judge, I don't know if the artistic impression was good, it's just subjective. Public order and peace are particularly subject to this, but this does not mean that public order and peace should not be regulated by the law, that public order and peace should not be sanctioned in any way, unless everything is subjective, if you want, determined that it is indeed beyond all frameworks, that it goes beyond all borders. If you let me, I'd like to caricature that things really aren't being defined everywhere, then maybe on the matter of physical accounting. In different laws we have the word "physical accounting", and we have no further definition of what this physical accounting looked like, because then there could be an expression, let's say someone hit someone. We know exactly what it is. But if they were really that picky, we'd start to wonder how he hit him, whether he hit him with his hand, or with an object, or whether he had a glove on top, or he hit him with his left hand, or his right hand, and where he hit him. Whether he hit him, say, in the chest, or in the front, or on the side, or on the right, or on the top, or on the bottom, or whatever, we don't come anywhere. That's not how it works, so we can't define public order and peace in all our phases, but what is it now, for example, if someone has upset someone. It's just a matter of judgment that can't be defined as how much he was upset, or 50%, or 80%, or 220%, that someone was upset, or, I don't know, a group of people. I'd rather have, I don't know, a different expression, or an evaluation of this excitement, but it's not going to work. Public order and peace is such a thing as not to do otherwise. It's just that it takes the judgment of whoever's in charge. I mentioned the judge earlier, and he can judge whether there's enough evidence to convict someone or not, or not to be convicted. It's a matter of judge's judgment. I've never seen anyone question that we should define it more if we just can't. In public order and peace, it is not easy to go there without some subjective evaluation. Let me get to the point. Article 14 speaks of these famous graffiti, without which some obviously cannot resist and for some it is already artistic work. But if it's on a neighbor's front, not mine. Article 14 states: "He who writes whether he is drawing on walls, fences, or other publicly accessible places and thus causes people to be disturbed shall be punished." I'd only have so much excitement here, because I think the owner might be upset, too. For me, that area is more important if the owner is upset, so it should be assessed somehow. Indeed, the second article continues this somehow, but I think that even when the owner is upset, there should be something appropriate, because I think it's those graphs, maybe it's irrelevant for a lot of people, but if we're walking through cities or driving around the country, we can see that with these graphing really, let's say, in my opinion, according to my subjective assessment, we're going across all the borders. It is not normal for new facades to be "cut-off" with various masonry. If this was my front, and I'm drawing up, that's my business. But if I or someone's drawing around, I don't know, after some foreign facade, I'm not really sure that the owner is happy with it, if it's still such an artistic work. And because these graphites really get some other dimensions, if you drive from Ljubljana to Styria, you will be on the highway, on the viaducts, on the fences you have drawn, and this is with a certain style, so it is not anyone drawing without connection. It's organized work by someone who has some style and draws on these bridges, viaducts and the like. I don't think that's going anywhere anymore. If you're looking at these anti-group fences. In Styria, for example, they're all "waited" with these graffiti. I think it goes, in my subjective opinion, beyond all normal boundaries. This is no longer normal. Let me just mention the big one. But a while ago, I also saw that the train, the Siemens composition, was on a nice "cut" with some graffiti. I don't know where that came from, who let anyone get a haircut on the train, but that's why I shaved, otherwise I wouldn't even be so busy with these graffiti. I think it's over. Here you might mention only disagreement with the idea that a policeman may have too much discretionary rights, subjectively decide whether something is still in accordance with the law or has come to pass. Perhaps now is the right time, given that we are meeting at this very time with the famous Plut case, which will even give us an extraordinary session. Earlier, it had been repeatedly said that police officers had too much authority. Well, now we're in a situation where in the case of Plut, we figure out why the hell the police didn't lock one up. I wonder what would happen if I did, but then I'd say, because I'd be locked up, why we even locked him up, because he didn't do anything. If he was locked up, he wasn't, but now that he wasn't, the cops should be sharper, but they should be tougher. It's the same here with public order and peace. The police will only have the discretion to assess if, according to his subjective assessment, there can be no different assessment because it cannot be measured numerically, whether the limit that is still acceptable or the one that is not acceptable is exceeded. So I think the law as such is acceptable to me, according to my subjective judgment. Some things are probably going to have to be worked out. However, we will not be able to move from this general context to a purely concrete one. Maybe it was funny when I was talking about who hit someone, how he hit them, how it was funny, but it's the same thing here. Define excitement or any other such expression, which is socially acceptable, that no one is disturbed, we will probably not be able to, so that we will probably have to stick to such a definition, and certain things will probably be perfected during the discussion. I think the basis is pretty good and it makes sense for us to continue with this content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me make a little more concrete what I said earlier when I presented the views of the Slovenian People's Party, also the need for this law of protection of minors, especially since at least two of the colleagues who discussed on behalf of the parliamentary groups gave me almost a clue as to what this is about the protection of minors or the watering or non-rinsing of alcoholic beverages. From the study I have mentioned here, let me give just a few concrete details of how such a matter is being dealt with in individual countries of the European Union and how they sanction the non-implementation of these provisions. France. Under the Public Health Code, minors under the age of 18 are prohibited from entering in the inn, where alcoholic beverages are poured, except in conjunction with the minor of the responsible person, either someone over the age of 18 or accompanied by parents, with the possibility of temporary or permanent closure of the place because this provision is violated by the police. In Ireland, under the Drinking Drinks Act, persons between 18 and 21 years of age are prohibited from entering places where alcoholic beverages are poured after 21 or 22 hours. Here too, the police can temporarily close the bar if this provision of the Drinking Drinks Act is violated. Spain. Under 18 years of age, entry to discotheques and drinking venues is generally prohibited and regulated by specific rules governing certain countries or local authorities. It's the same here, and for smaller offenses, the place can be closed for six months, and for larger or repeated offences for even two years. Another example is the Youth Protection Act in force in the Federal Republic of Germany, which says that young people under the age of 16 are allowed to enter in inn restaurants only with their parents or guardians. A 16 to 18-year-old at a 24-hour dance is not allowed to enter where alcoholic beverages are poured. Here, too, is the possibility of withdrawing the operating permit of a particular place. So, with my debate I'm nothing new I'm going to say "congratulations" or, I'm going to say, nothing new. I used data or presented ways in which it was regulated in other countries. Let me mention a few more data from one survey, which was done in a short time and asked were citizens and citizens, "or in your opinion it is necessary to limit the entry of minors into nightclubs in your opinion." 56% of respondents would agree. After 24 hours, only about 15 or 18 percent would be asked to allow young people or minors from 16 to 18 years of age to enter certain liquor - drink establishments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you. I give the floor to Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. With this law, the Minister of the Interior, at least according to my opinion, is opening up a new kind of satire or humor. I'm sure he'll be filling out newspapers and all those pages that are meant for this species. I must say that when I read the law, as well as the explanations in some articles, I really laughed, and I also shuddered. Scared why? Because they are used in the law, at least in my opinion, completely inappropriate terms for marriage. This law has the word "slaughter" written down. Please, what year are we coming back? Last but not least, I will say again, at least in my opinion, instead of creating a disorder for the introduction of arbitrary interpretations of acceptable and unacceptable. They're talking about artistic impressions. What is moral and who actually gives the police or the police any authority to decide what is moral and what is immoral, what is acceptable behavior? You know, cops aren't trained to do this kind of work. They're not. And I doubt that in their services, specifically on the basis of this law, if adopted, they will be trained professionally. One hour is not enough. If I go to law school. Among the fundamental principles and objectives it is stated, "the effective provision of public order and peace with a view to the realization of the individual's right to security and dignity." With dignity, I will stop and appeal to this government to take this sentence into account when I speak to it about violations of children's rights when it comes to sexual violence. At that time, man’s dignity was violated. And you should be aware of that when you talk about these things and when you impose penalties on the perpetrator for such crimes against sexual inviolability. Then the law speaks, inter alia, of the safety of persons in the private space. Everything's fine and fine. The penalties are also imposed. I ask again who that judge will be, of course, who will be able to determine whether it is a challenge between a man and a woman or whether it is presumptuous conduct, rude, offensive behavior. Last but not least, since this government has not yet drafted a law on the prevention of domestic violence, I fear that the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace, specifically in this provision, in Article 6, will compensate for the law on the prevention of domestic violence. If I continue to write by law, Article 5 speaks of collecting voluntary contributions. These are, in principle, prohibited, except for the special authorisation to collect voluntary contributions, where voluntary contributions are collected at the premises of religious communities for religious purposes or where any other provision provides for different conditions for the collection of contributions. Such exceptions, at the discretion of the Slovenian National Parties, are indeed unacceptable. And specifically in this case, when we are talking about church activity, which, of course, is an exception in our society, I have to touch again on subjective assessment of what is acceptable behavior, acceptable doing or what is a violation of public order and peace. Music, too loud, apparently, at least in the opinion of the minister or those who prepared this law, is a violation of public order and peace. Excuse me, but every day for 15 minutes, I hear the church bells ringing loud. Under the new government regulation, this is supposed to be a nice tune for the ear, but allow me, for 15 minutes every day! I'm sorry, I think this is a violation of my public order and peace. In particular, it's about access to my privacy. The law in its form is totally unacceptable. And if the Minister, as we have already heard today, will not answer the questions or dilemmas raised in the opening, then in the Slovenian National Party we will not support the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. Member Dimitrij Kovačič is next. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I must say, the debate is quite interesting. The protection of public order and peace is a very important area that people attribute to it, although it is a high place in the hierarchy of importance. That is why it is all the more important that this area is regulated in a comprehensive way, so that it is appropriate to expect people and that this area is also effectively regulated. And since the security of people and property is one of the greatest good that people want to have, it is only right that we give due attention to this area. I am pleased that the proposed law governs the area in its entirety, which means that we define offences against public order and peace in one law, and of course also lays down sanctions that follow the offences found. Therefore, the transparency of this area in relation to the regulation so far is much better. The jurisdiction of the police and the municipal authorities as competent authorities in these proceedings is sufficiently specified in the law on the procedure for determining and sanctioning offences. I also believe that the proposed legal provisions sufficiently ensure the effectiveness of the establishment of public order and peace, all in order to ensure that the rights of individuals to security and human dignity are also realized. It is also important that the law also protects the security of people in private spaces, as practice shows that there are many things happening within the four walls where people live. And much of this also threatens the safety of these people, so the attention given by the law to this area makes me happy. It seems good to me that we are starting to think more and more about not just putting pressure on violators of public order and peace, but that we will need to act more and more preventively. Here I am not only thinking that the law also regulates the responsibilities and competence of local communities, i.e. municipalities and cities in providing security, by conferring the appropriate powers to act on municipal and municipal authorities in precisely defined cases. In particular, I think it will be necessary to put in place strong preventive mechanisms in the work of the police, which, by definition, are indeed more or less repressive, will put the police in place more than an institution which, within and together with the local community and its inhabitants, largely in addition to acting in violation of public order and peace, also prevents and prevents the very occurrence of violations of public order and peace by its presence. To a greater extent than ever before, the police, in cooperation with the local community, will ensure human security. This is most important, and I therefore believe that the law we are talking about today will also contribute to greater security and will increase confidence in the work of the police in the future, and people will have an increased sense of security. In the debate itself, there were some dilemmas that I would also like to comment on. That is, it was said that the law gives the police more powers. To a certain extent, this is true and I think it is also right that the police have greater powers wherever the need for action is given. So, where it's necessary, I think it's right that the police have greater powers. Mr Petan mentioned the comparison earlier with the Plut case and this in itself shows that in cases where this is necessary, it is right for the police to have greater powers. I would also like to say that this law does not give the police discretion in any way. The police don't have this discretionary authority. The police would have discretion if they had punished an act that was not recorded as an offence, yet the police would have the authority to punish such a person. The police have no discretion under this law. However, a police officer has jurisdiction over whether an act committed as an offence is enshrined in this law. But that's something else, it's not a discretionary jurisdiction, but it's a right to judge a particular action. Clearly, it is desirable, and we should all strive to have all the actions written down as accurately and concretely as possible. But it is not possible to write down a single act in completeness in such a way as to be judged by every human being exactly the same. So that we could have an invented robot, which then instead of a human being, would just automatically impose sanctions. In any case, a person must be reasonable to determine whether or not an act has been committed. Same as in criminal law. There, too, we might wonder what a crime of regret is, and what is a crime of slander. There, too, this must be judged in a specific case whether any specific act has elements that are recorded as criminal offences in the criminal code. Even with the murder - whether it's murder or it's murder and so on. In each particular case, the matter must be assessed. And, of course, the policeman has that right and that authority. Police officers are also people who, like all of us, have an average intelligence, an average ability to judge. That doesn't mean the police can't be wrong. A police officer is also human and can be wrong, but in this case we also have an instance - if someone feels that he has been wrongly punished, he has the opportunity to complain, as in other proceedings, administrative, judicial and so on. And in this case, the court will determine whether the police officer did the right thing or not. As far as public harassment is concerned. Here a few rhetorical questions have been raised, why does the law determine what is moral, what is offensive recruitment, for example, what is this public uproar? Here I have to make it very clear that the law does not stipulate anywhere, it does not stipulate that there is an immoral violation of public order and peace; it does not. Specific acts marked as a violation of public order and peace shall be listed everywhere. Nowhere does it say, immoral conduct is a violation of public order and peace. You're the one who made it up. That's not true. It was also those who wondered whether any public harassment would now be sanctioned, whether it constituted a violation of public order and peace. It doesn't say that either. Disturbing the public is recorded only in the four concrete actions that are recorded as a violation of public order and peace, in those cases where only conduct is not yet sufficient for it to be a violation of public order and peace, but in addition to the service of this act, it must also be a result of public harassment. And it is only in four cases that it is permissible: namely, in the first case, it is whoever is fighting in a public place, yelling or being rude, only that is not yet enough to violate, but if it is done in a way that causes harassment and harassment of people. This is the first case. So an additional qualified condition must be that this action is such that it can then be punished. Then, in another case, who stays or sleeps in public places - that is to say, it is not in itself enough to violate - and if such conduct upsets someone. Thirdly, who uses carbide and other gas mixtures for mining and so on, if this causes excitement and a sense of danger - once again, it must be cumulatively indicated that this is a violation. And the last example, writing or drawing on walls, fences, and other publicly accessible places, causes people to be disturbed. So, just disturbing people isn't enough yet, but these four acts that I've counted, if these cases are given in addition to anxiety, it's a violation. Let's be precise and talk about things that are, not things that aren't. All those debates relating to adrenaline shocks and so forth are either a blank shot or no basis in the law in question. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. We continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In the beginning, if only a little in general. The climate or atmosphere among people or in the public is certainly fond of any aggravation, both criminal policy and this law, which is written here, in any way allowing for a fine, is likely to be well received in a certain circle of people. We are also talking about the greater role of repressive organs. Police officers are already pointing out that they are under-authorized, but at the same time they are constantly aware of their responsibilities. And even when they intervene when necessary, they ask many times what to do, not to turn the matter against them, and that in the end they do not become those who have been tried in court, like those who have committed an act that does not conform to the law. This happens very quickly. Talking about what it is to hear many times that the police in Slovenia are bad is not good. Firstly, it has this poor message value, and secondly, police officers, like everyone else in the professions, try to do their work in a quality and within the prescribed legislation. To conclude and create an image or image of a particular profession according to an individual within this group is a highly ungrateful and unproductive matter. I firmly believe that besides powers, police officers would also need a good salary. So, well-paid for this work they're doing, and in this way also encouraged. I think it's also a step towards more order where we expect cops to be able to intervene. This law, which is proposed for consideration, also has some shortcomings. At least I can see them, and these shortcomings keep me from supporting them. Speaking of gibberish. We all know that sometimes this is a matter of jurisdiction. We have several types of those who ask for money, and for something else, and some are completely nonviolent, but some are sometimes at the limit of that still permissible. How, though, can we determine that, or separate it, and how can we determine the fine of that beggar? I had heard earlier that someone was talking about whether a police officer would then raise funds with him to this height so that the fine or the amount of these funds would be met. After what I see today, in fact, begging is a lucrative business if we see it as we see it in this law. Furthermore, it is said that Article 9 would also point to Article 10, which states that anyone who stays or sleeps in public places or other accessible places which are not intended to do so and by such conduct disturbs someone, is punished with a fine of 20,000 tolar. Personally, I am sure that this word set "and with such conduct upsets" does not belong to this article. Who's going to judge again what upsets someone? Sometimes it upsets someone to see someone in a place where he does not want to see them, but this person has done nothing wrong or contrary to the law. So, I think it's going to be very difficult to judge, and this doesn't belong in this article. In Article 11, we are talking about the illicit supply of sexual services. "He who offers or imposes sexual services in a public place shall be punished with a fine." It doesn't even matter that much. The term "improvement of services at all" could also mean a form of criminal offence against sexual inviolability if the intensity of the act was large enough, such as attempted rape, attempted sexual violence. Perhaps a better term in this article would be "forced sexual service offering." In Article 12, in the second paragraph, we have listed items whose use or presentation causes alarm or a sense of danger in humans, an exit, as already warned by a fellow Member, a weapon for slaughtering animals. Now, if this is the case in this article, I am not quite sure and I agree with her opinion. Article 16 states that "who, in a public place, burns or otherwise damages or destroys the flag or coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, the flag of the European Union or the flag of another State, shall be punished..." I believe that the content of this Article is a crime under Article 174, a disgrace to the Republic of Slovenia, or 175, a disgrace to a foreign country or an international organisation, a criminal code, because it is intended to burn, damage or destroy a flag or coat of arms in a public place of shame. In Article 21, the content of this Article is largely covered by the criminal offence of inciting national or religious hatred, discord or intolerance, Article 300 of the Penal Code, which, in view of the risk of imprisonment for up to two years, is considered to be an easier crime, so it is not merely a violation of public order and peace. Article 26 mentions items which may be seized. Article 6 is also mentioned here, but the more I read this Article, the more I see this tool or weapon in this article. It is therefore necessary to review the content of all these articles once again. So I do understand what the proposalr wants with this law, but I do not agree with the proposaler in individual places, as it was discussed in the discussion with the applicant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. Member Willy Rezman is next. I'm sorry. Your time's up. The debate is followed by a debate by Ambassador Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that, given the debate that is actually under way under this law, it is an important matter that we have somehow started the debate today. I could also say that I cannot fully agree with this bill, of course I also have certain comments, of course, that on the basis of this debate, which will take place, I am sure there will be a lot more to be done in this law. However, I hope that there will be no opposition to this law, what I know, from some aprioristic principles, because it seems to me, given the debate I am hearing now, that, above all, in this direction, they are not the most appropriate concepts, some expression, then terminology. I think that these are all things which, of course, are to be settled in further discussions, not least in the future of coordination. We all agree, of course, that this law, which will govern the field of public order and peace, is necessary. Of course, the law is now here, in front of us, the way it is, and I think we still have enough options, of course, to have enough opportunities to influence this law even better with our comments. I am certainly sure that this law, however, somehow wants to regulate the whole area of public order and peace - this is one - and somehow achieve that basic principle, this is that somehow unacceptable social behaviour is clearly defined and appropriate sanction is also laid down for these acts. At the outset, the Minister mentioned that ensuring order and peace is not only in the domain of the state authorities, but also in the domain of the local community. I agree completely with that, but at this very level there will be a lot more to be done. The Minister spoke about the need for better organisation of editorial services and thus for greater public order and peace at local level. I have the feeling that the local communities, the municipalities have quite well regulated, not least of all the small congregations also unite at the level of the common municipal administrations, and in this way also regulate the registrar. There's another problem. See, municipalities have the possibility of extending the operating time of guest facilities on the basis of roof legislation, including decrees and regulations in this area. Of course, when there is a violation of this operating time, and there is a great deal of this, but there is a weak local community, not least the police have been powerless up to this point, but in this law we see that the police have greater powers in this area, and last but not least this competence is that they can somehow exclude energy resources, which is literally what the law says, but of course I would agree that these powers of police might be even greater. My colleague Bajc said earlier that they had this arranged in other countries, quoted the case of Ireland, where in such a case the police may even close an object when it comes to an irregularity for a violation. Perhaps I would mention another matter, when we are talking about violations of public order and peace, I am sure that many violations in this case would have been eliminated if the presence of the police were greater in certain areas. We know that with the reorganisation of the police, I do not know how many years ago, but it has come to the fact that many police stations have been abolished in certain places and thus the threat of citizens has increased significantly. This is also one of the warnings I wanted to give in this debate. I would also support the thinking of my colleague Bajc, who is speaking, in this direction that this law should define, after all, the protection of minors, or with some new law, as they have, say, this regulated in Germany. I agree with the speaker who said that we are a society of risk, that we can never prevent such and other things that are happening to them before the recent discotheque accident. Of course, absolutely not, I agree, we cannot rule that out, but we can reduce this danger. And yet I'm sure it's basically a good marriage. It really needs to be finalized, complemented, and I think that this law is on the right track and that we are going in this direction to finally try to create greater order and peace in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Dusan Kumra to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, a general, principled conclusion. If the memory of me does not believe that when you adopted the law on road traffic offences in this national assembly, you were not as repressive as you are today when we consider the law on public order and peace, but this law is also about human life, endangering security and so on. But I'll talk about it some other time. My opinion is that the causes of the consequences that we are dealing with today are much deeper than those set out in these 20 articles by the 20 states under the definition and sanctioning of the law on public order and peace in a public place. The underlying cause is a markedly different way of life, the pace of life, not least the whole type of violent patterns we witness every day, from verbal to physical violence. I therefore urge those who today have warned that when more tasks and powers are given to the repressive authorities, whether they are police officers or editors, these should be more precisely defined in this law than in the present proposal. Because, last but not least, it is a valuable assessment of the offence, it is a qualification of the offence, it is a sanction and, last but not least, it is a discretionary right that both a police officer and a clerk have in those cases where the legislator has not detailed the exact way of dealing with the particular situation, but it has provided for a number of alternatives, both by law and by law, and both a police officer and a clerk must find out between these alternatives. I'll give you an example: I can stumble - in connection with the cases that Mr Kovacič mentioned earlier - by accident in this trip, I run into another man at a bus station who will react explosively, hit me first and maybe even hit me. And we have a situation that's unpredictable. And now I ask you in which article of these 20 state government orders is this conflict situation defined - it is not. But if he's called or there's a cop or a clerk in this place, he's gonna have to intervene. My point is, of course, my debate on one of the major shortcomings in the law has been defined and I will now try to talk about it. The law is also based on the conclusion that the provision of public order and peace is not only a domain of state authorities, but also an interest of local communities that can respond more effectively to the security issue in the local community by organising and directing the editorial service. Here comes a question to which the proposed law does not fully answer. In fact, we need to know that in Slovenia, according to the number of municipalities - and at each meeting of the National Assembly, we get a new municipality along with - and their size is at least half of those who have no editorial service and do not have at least one editor. In these cases, then, all tasks in the field of public order and peace control will have to be carried out by police instead of editors. It also sets out that directors should also be given greater powers and powers at the same time. And this is where it ends because it is impossible to understand from the law itself whether editors have been given specific powers, such as physical action in certain conflict situations. Article 29 - defines articles in which cases of 7, 9, 12, 13, 14 do not mean that I will not list, in which officers can also act. [[...]] Once again, we know that police officers can act under some of the other laws and qualifications they have, the editorial services do not have at least this at the moment and I am interested, given that this will have to be prescribed by the Minister for Local Self-Government, training and preparation of these editors, on the basis of what, what courses or courses, and so on, officials will also be trained to intervene in these cases. I think that this is one of the important shortcomings in this law, which in some ways excludes more than half of the congregations so that they can regulate it themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you. The next one's gonna be talking about mag. Tomaž Strabe. I give my word to Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The law we received at first reading in the National Assembly has a variety of shortcomings. I hope to say that, in particular, when an individual body is required to adopt a law on editorial service, it will be up to the municipal editors to decide for themselves, for the first time, what it means to cause people to be upset. It is fortunate that in all the articles that mention the excitement of people with individual actions, the word "people" is always mentioned in the plural. Why am I saying that? Because I can claim from experience that, by this logic, a police officer in the articles listed in the case of infringements referred to in Article 29 or later by a clerk should act because someone feels upset, because a young girl goes past him or goes past him or a young girl who is underdressed and is considered to be an upset or upset citizen or citizen, citizen or citizen in case the police have to act because they consider that this is a provision of sexual services in the public. How can I in such a case - I know this is happening, I'm afraid it is. I also have specific cases where, as mayor, I had to intervene because police officers wanted to drive street musicians out of the street because of people's excitement. Don't tell me it's begging! Don't tell me it's begging. These people are working to earn something. And neither the local community nor the administrative unit were required to allow these people to play some instruments of pleasantness, good music, and thus to make voluntary contributions. But no, it upsets some people and they called the police to help drive these exciting musicians away. And they didn't cause anything to upset anyone, to calm down, because it was classical music. And so it's going to happen in a whole bunch of other things. I think that, however, at the beginning of the law, except for those three definitions that we have written, I think that in Article 2, we should also have written down what harassment means. On the other hand, some such offences are also recorded where it is not necessary, or by law, to understand that it is mandatory for a police officer or later, when a law enforcement service is regulated, to call, inform, report to the competent service of a citizen or a citizen his or her harassment due to an occurrence. It is said that if a police officer sees, for example, begging in a public place, which is pervasive and I don't know what else, he can't act on it because it doesn't cause people to be upset, because no one has come to tell him that he's upset about it. But he himself as an authority of persecution is not the one who might be upset about it. He needs to get a report. That's how I understand it. Thus, there is no self-initiativeism for such conduct; on the other hand, we leave the judgement of the gravity of this offence, of this violation of public order and of peace, to the judgement of an individual citizen or citizen. We know exactly how very subjective we know to be, I repeatedly point out the definition of Professor Expan, who once said the source of noise is important, but not the intensity of noise when it comes to disrupting the inhabitants around this source of noise. It is said that if someone is in the immediate vicinity of the dump, it does not at all produce such intensity of noise that it would harm the drums or anything else, but it is disturbing because the type of sound and also the constant repetition is disturbing. The same is true when it comes to a neighbor with a lawnmower goose in the middle of the week, in the middle of the white day, and your neighbor gets on your nerves, this lawnmower is disturbing, and the neighbor who also cuts down doesn't get on our nerves, and we don't mind if she does lunch with the lawnmower on Sunday. It is interesting that we have - this is nothing new, this is a completely human property - causing excitement is extremely subjective, I will say, an assessment and therefore I believe that in law such an expression, such a notion has no place. We will have to find some clear definition for police officers and later officials to act with some credibility, otherwise they will have to not object to the term 'every liquid grandmother' to listen immediately and go to punish the one who did something. What is not in principle disturbing is not disturbing, but it is a matter of subjective judgment of the one who sought out a policeman or a director to act. And for this reason, I would suggest that at least what it is, is defined in this law also by certain concepts, such as causing anxiety or using other expressions, which is an intrusive way, but for me, it is already an intrusive way that beggars appear in public, and for this reason I will not call the police if you believe or not. After that, for example, other "gas mixtures" and what "hazardous objects" are, what "causes harassment" etc. I think that the whole range of concepts used in this law is too vague and under-defined and directly dictates that police officers and editors use discretion. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] There's something else I'd like to say, by the way. In the case of wrong parking, understanding of citizens is very, very different, let alone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	When it comes to something like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you. Mrs Pecanova, you probably know when numbers go red, that means negative. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I give my word to Maja Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	The Honourable Minister and the others. While serial killers can uncontrollablely walk on the loose, they are supposed to be working with beggars and incompetents, graffiti, prostitutes and others now with a hard broom. You give the right to clean the streets to police officers and editors with broad powers, subjective powers. They will assess whether the surrounding area is sufficiently disgusted with indecent actions and whether it is sufficiently disturbed. If a beggar ever wishes me a happy day, and my day will, say, be unhappy that day, and he can upset me with that logic, I'll call a policeman and chase him after a beggar. It doesn't have to be a beggar, it can only remind you of a beggar. He could not have tied his shoelaces or worn too many creative clothes, trendy or any other costumes that day. The officer will already judge by his subjective - subjective - subjective, I stress - whether he is disturbed or not. If I'm willing, I'll be able to report anyone who, by any standard written criteria, behaves inappropriately. In short, the field of possible applications is immeasurable. The possibilities of applications are so great that it will be necessary to multiply police officers to the extreme, if necessary, as they will certainly be insufficient in the case of potential citizens' and citizens' disturbances. And it's not far from Orwell. I forgive you, but in this place I ask that the President of the State react this time a little faster than in asylum, because you do not listen to the opposition and I know that all of these will go through. The ruling coalition is in full swing, momentum, movement for the police state, movement for a controlled society, movement for human control and movement for human control. I think it's also a movement for the Yanshes and yours, Mr. Minister, trainers. In fact, I think that this legislation is moving in the direction that we would like to consider police neighbours and that when Slovenia slowly starts to turn into a repressive country, a country that can export people to Iraq, and those who remain want to subject them to an exaggerated public order and an absolute illegal state. For in the rule of law it is impossible to leave the police to determine what is proper and what is not. In this context, I must admit, I don't understand whether you're writing a new morality at the Ministry of Order and Peace. For you seem to think that a broken glass or a spit is worth the punishment. Not to speak of sacrilege with prostitution. You leave it to the police to punish something in the street that's allowed behind the walls. Years ago, we took an important step when we decriminalized prostitution. Now we are criminalizing it again, in a way where it is not clear who he is - Mr Minister, I would also like to hear from you how you will recognize him - which forces sexual services in a public place. On the other hand, let me point out that there are not many street prostitutions in this place and that people do not mind. I also stress how a police officer will recognize street prostitutes. I believe that you only know the answer to this, because, as with others, the law is unclear and indeterminate. This is about double morality. Let me point out that this provision of Article 11 on prostitution is not so insignificant, however, because it also prohibits advertising of sex services in the media or in the advertising area, because a public place which, according to the new penalty of 50 to 100,000 tolars, cannot be just a street, but it can also be an advertisement in the media space, in short, is spreading today uncommented. I also ask how article 14, which speaks of the fact that writing by objects is not allowed in public places, will be in conflict with certain artistic practices that have been established since Andy Warhol's time with the most important painter in this area, the late Basquoat, as an independent artistic character in our space. I'm not going to list everything that's been said today. I can conclude that you are extending the powers of repressive authorities, and this is unsatisfactory for a relaxed society. In a way, not only are you in legal inconsistencies, but in some ways you are also restricting freedom of expression and movement. I would like to point out that if the state doesn't master the serial killer, at least it will control the beggar. That's why she's gonna stick medals. But I don't understand him on whose behalf and on whose behalf these new controversial provisions are being introduced. Are there any alibis for people being intimidated? If you think this is how you clean up the streets, I don't think it's the right solution. Just like it's not the right solution to clean it up to send a ton of parading tanks to them. Surely we should think carefully before we send the law to the second reading, not only are we warning you about this, but the profession that clearly stated the difficulties you faced when you brought about such a prepared law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you. Minister, I'm asking you whether you'll answer from the front or the end. Although my proposal is to end up in the framework of the available time. Then I give my word to Christian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues and my colleagues! The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is certainly in today's debate, and even after the time allocated for this point, a good journey, a good basis for further discussion. I think it is important that we give this relatively old law, with many additions, some new content of today's time, of today's life, also of young people, who are in particular different from the one we have lived, and it is right that we also follow it in some way also in the national assembly and government, and we also try young people in some way that have their own time of entertainment and their environment, to this end that it would be more friendly than even that. It is true that this law, which also speaks of the practice of reading by objects, is vandalism; these are things that we experience every day in one way or another. We have different opinions about begging. I also know the case of taking a hitchhiker to Ljubljana, who went to Ljubljana to do this business, which is called begging, and he told me that he earned eight, ten hours and up to 30 thousand a day - perhaps even better paid than a parliamentary or county job. Whether it's good or not, it's a matter of every individual's judgment. I have a different opinion about begging. As far as writing is concerned, it has become a kind of sport for young people who enjoy it immensely and do so on such a special expression of damage to objects, owners and so on. But once, when it was more or less just a matter of cities, vandalism came to the countryside today. It has become immeasurable and is doing a great deal of damage to such and different infrastructures, which are paid by taxpayers from municipal and state budgets. I think the police need to get their powers under the law, according to the fact that we just want this police that we have to do more to protect the environment, to protect public order and peace, and I think that's our purpose. And I believe that in today's debate the Minister will also take a position, and not least perhaps this topic, which is very topical at this time that we are living, especially after that unfortunate event, may also be considered to be a public presentation of this story and perhaps even more things to bring together in this story to make a good law that would serve again for another 15 or 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I need to see how many people there are and how many there are. A nice greeting, of course, to the minister with his co-worker. It's Mrs. Uhanova's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Ensuring public order and peace and exercising the individual's right to security and dignity is the purpose of this law, as set out in the introduction. Inadmissible social actions and penalties have been defined. Threat, strife, fighting, violent, rude behavior, hurt feelings are punished by a fine. I myself will define certain articles, or I will express doubts or concerns about them. Surely this law has caused a lot of excitement among Members today, and after two such easy monitoring of the meeting this is somehow more interesting material. And I'm sure this excitement came from Article 7, where this harassment or harassment is mentioned. Maybe I would have touched the second part of this article, which says, "unseemly behavior, sexual intercourse or display of sexual organs in a public place will only have an epilogue if it bothers anyone." What a loose article that says "if anyone gets in the way." I wonder who's gonna judge who's gonna be in the way. Is there something bothering me or not? And what are the consequences of such an action in a public place, for example, for a youth who is not guaranteed its safety anywhere in this article or in this law. But when it comes to begging, I'd say it doesn't bother me that much if someone asks me for a tolar, but all I care about is begging, just acting like a social phenomenon. This is certainly not folklore for me, as it appears today in the media, but pardoning a valuable condition that reflects the state of society. The same applies to prostitution. Damages to state property, facilities, economic infrastructure, writing by object, graffiti - are fined. This raises me the question of how many of the found perpetrators of these crimes and how much the fine is recoverable for them, for example in the case of the unemployed, the beggars, the Roma and similar vandals. I didn't notice that the fine would be replaced by prison, because if you don't have something to take, it's pointless to prescribe a fine. The effect could be greater if any offence was followed by punishment. In doing so, not only am I referring to a financial penalty or a prison, but it might be possible to resolve it with a socially beneficial work. And one more question comes to me. How detectable are the perpetrators of these crimes, graffiti writers and similar vandals. So they're the ones who track them down and have something to take from them. Otherwise, I feel that this law is acceptable, that it is lax, and that it is certainly needed in today’s society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In the meantime, we were joined by young visitors and visitors on the Tribunal, whom I welcome on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! Perhaps, however, one of you will also become a Member or a Member and let me tell you, it is also informative that we are considering the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace, namely a general debate. What does that mean? Your teachers will explain. We continue the debate. And I invite Mr. Janc to the floor. Is it gone? 16 seconds. They say there's a lot to say in 16 seconds, so if you want, please, please, your word. Maybe say hello to our young visitors.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for these 16 seconds, but just enough to welcome future young parliamentarians to this national assembly. But I've already talked about this marriage, and now I won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kokal to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Dear young parliamentarians and parliamentarians, distinguished Vice-President, Honourable Minister! It is difficult to add anything else to the broad debate that has developed under this law, but I think it is necessary mainly because the situation has changed significantly at the time of the adoption of the law in force so far. Also on the basis of the statistics that we have heard or that we can read in the annex or in the chapeau of this law, it is clear that the disturbance of public order and peace, in particular, I would say that the specificity of the disturbance or the actions that contribute to it have changed in recent times, and I believe that this law has tried to address those key problems that most have occurred in recent years and that it is also trying to resolve them in general. Of course, there are some questions here that are likely to have to be addressed in the execution itself, particularly the relationship or only the training of the police to take appropriate action in accordance with this law. In recent times, we have been very regularly faced with great scepticism, particularly the opposition, as regards the proper police work and the capacity of the police. At the same time, when we have legislation on the table trying to help the police to be trained as wide and humanised as possible, we face opposition. I'm a little surprised, on the one hand, and on the other hand, of course not. However, I think that the Ministry of the Interior, especially the police department dealing with the police, is really looking forward to a very difficult job here. In fact, if we have properly trained police officers, then a whole bunch of the dilemmas that have been expressed here today will go away. The body or public person is always acting subjectively, and we all know that, however, once we are in the skin of the official person, we must ultimately make a subjective decision. That's why I don't think it's clear that someone's going to arbitrate or that they're going to have some discretion. Of course, any official may miss and, of course, he must then answer objectively. Therefore, it seems to me that an excessive reference to this fear is already in advance to how someone might misjudge a violation of this law, excessively, absolutely excessively. I am asked a key question, which, as we see, will be regulated by a specific law, how the local communities will carry out their responsibility with their red tape service. Given that the police are relatively poorly present, on time, especially in the rural area, it seems necessary for me to engage local red tape, but of course, there is a question of how concrete it can act, such as when it is necessary to act quickly and when it is not possible to involve the police quickly. Here I think that it is imperative to consider these matters. Of course, it is a matter of urgency, for more and more acts, which would constitute a violation of this law, are being moved to the countryside, as mentioned earlier. Personally, I miss further regulation in this law, especially preventively, in relation to protection, I will say, assistance in raising children and adolescents, which is indirectly regulated in the current law. Above all, it is the operation of restaurants in the immediate vicinity of primary schools, which I think even if the law on hospitality or the law on the restriction of alcohol consumption clearly states how it is and prohibits the pouring of alcoholic beverages and the supply of alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 18 years, but I must say that I speak from specific experience at a location where I often encounter those who raise children in the immediate vicinity of primary school, even during school school hours, visiting a place where alcoholic beverages are poured. I think that in a way it would be necessary to do so - perhaps not in this law or at least to regulate it in general. I think that the current law has tried to regulate this, of course in a way that is no longer the most appropriate. On the very effectiveness of the law, however, I agree with the concerns that if sanctions are not very specific and effective, then the law itself will clearly not have its weight. I also agree with the fact that the prevention, in addition to the curativa, which is brought by law, is of exceptional importance and, in this context, I would like to commend myself on the basis of my experience of the previous initiative, which was given by the police at local levels to form at least some congregations of the so-called councils for the safety of the congregation. When I was still mayor, we, together with the police station in this area, set up such a world where we have included all the official institutions that have any influence and can help with preventive work, and here we have solved quite a few specific problems, particularly regarding the problem of violations of public order and peace around public institutions, particularly around schools. A number of the actions listed here relate to this area, from graffiti forward to damage to public infrastructure and with appropriate arrangements it was possible to resolve this. In this context, it seems to me that the police, as well as those who will have some kind of supervisory role in this law, have an extremely important role to play. Once again, if the police are adequately trained to implement this law, then we can hope for positive effects and I think this is possible, of course, at the same time as effective implementation of sanctions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, young parliamentarians. We have before us a proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace and let me briefly say that to all those who are under Roman I, I must agree, there is even a very good record of things, these are analyses, comparisons with what is happening in other countries, and of course a shorter table that speaks of the state of public order and peace in Slovenia. In fact, this one does not cry out or call out for serious changes. Of course, it's different with what's written under Roman two. [[II]] in the text of the articles. For a short time, I've highlighted what it would be good to study and change, and I have to say that this is a very large one, there are about 40 markers. Some are more general, these are those who are involved in prostitution, in collecting contributions or in begging where things are not clear. But there are some very obvious mistakes I think it would be good to correct them further. For example, consider Article 6, which speaks of violent and presumptuous conduct. It says here who fights is punished with a fine of 100,000 to 300,000 tolars. It is also said to be a ravas and causs, which is very severely punished if, of course, the assessment of this is so severe. But the next item says whoever beats someone is fined between 80 and 150 thousand tolars. So if he's beaten, if he succeeds in what he's being punished for with 300,000, he's got some kind of reward, a discount for success or something, he's half the penalty. That kind of thing needs to be looked at. When fighting, if fighting, it should be at least a double or a plural, knowing how many people are being punished, whether it's in a piece or all together, they pay off. Well, the one who's successful and who gets beaten up has a discount. Of course, it's very poorly written down and it's talking about slempard. I have to say, you're a billmaker, you shouldn't afford that. Sexual communication is also problematic, researching the sexual organs when it bothers someone. Now, I don't know, it doesn't say "disturbing" here, but it does say "an extra thing." I think that this kind of demonstration must be recorded without this limitation, and it doesn't have to bother anyone, because it can always be found by chance, which will be quiet or scared. The same is true of those suggestions I have heard in the middle, which in some ways, the parental role actually withdraws and want to hold the state accountable for its children. God forbid! Parents should remain parents, deal with their children on their own, raise them themselves, determine for themselves when to be at home, and when to be out and where to go. Otherwise, we will be in a position where no one really needs anything and the country will now be the ugly one who doesn't leave the children outside, but the parents will always be able to make excuses for the country. Article 9 Picking up in the public domain. There's something else to add here. Not only is it an insidious or offensive way of begging, but it's another way of doing it. It is also about selling products in an intrusive way, and it is also about eventually breaking into privacy in an intrusive way. And it's not the only contact that's direct, but in modern technology, it's also possible to do something different. So it seems to me that when you proposed this, you wrote that you had in your hands a relatively old sample, probably from 1974, and there was some sort of thing trying to adapt to these newer things. At the same time, something was copied. One such thing, for example, is in graffiti, where it says that someone writes or paints on walls, fences, publicly accessible places, and thus excites people. That's not enough. I think that even through private walls it is not possible to write and not just leave everything behind, because after all, even a private wall can be turned against a public place, and it must not be left to civil action. I still have this case in my booty, and it's bound to a term of office. I'm just wondering when public officials and police officers will be picking up these sentences. At 7:00 p.m., when the boys get enough money, will that be at 5:00? In some ways, they will be forced into greater ingenuity so that they can still pay the fines. A similar thing that also seems to me to be old and, in fact, has come in in some way, is the one that is associated with carbide. Anyone who uses acicillin, carbide or other gas mixtures for mining and thus causes anxiety or a sense of danger is punished. Today, there are a lot of these substances, and there are more pyrotechnic means. The carbide may still have a big night and some other place for May 1st, or not. In addition to hearing violence, there is the possibility of flashing, so is light violence, as well as various stinkers, who are loved by some jockeys and do not belong to aroma therapy in cinema halls. That's just as much violence. He had already written about this in the Happy Song of the fart, where he explained how this was not good. Apparently, some things in the modern world have been taken into account by law, some not. It's so small and, of course, I'm going to go into my professor's position now and I'm going to say, "Colleagues, take this seminar assignment back. Recycle it a little bit, and come back again." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Koren's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Member, Member of Parliament and Members! I think this is a very important consideration of the law on the protection of public order and peace. I must say that in our congregation we have faced similar things for many years when we were preparing a decree on public order and peace in the congregation. I must say, we've been writing this whole last term, for four years, the draft went through, the proposal's always stuck. We want to get the best result, and we obviously didn't make it. At that time, we also encountered the law on public order and peace. Interestingly, the congregation’s councillors often felt that the legal basis was bad, that the restrictions that the law brought on them seemed particularly bad, and the saints on many occasions wanted to sharpen matters much more than the laws. I agree with all those who agree that repression is not the one that is supposed to be in charge, but I agree with it, but obviously without repression it will not work. If not, repression must be for those, I'll say, the fear of God that then certain things will turn a lot differently than they would. I'll say it again on the municipal case. He worked a long time, especially after that brutal murder a few years ago when minors were killed, and in a very, very painful way, one bum and then demanded a number of years of police station in Šostanje because they were counting on the police station to improve the situation in the city. People generally find that matters of public order and peace are prevented in this way, not by the intervention of the police, but by the presence of the police. In the evenings, when the city is surrounded by police, it can also prevent certain unpleasantness that occurs mainly in the night and evening hours in the city. I agree with Mr Gulic, who discussed a little earlier that it is very important for the whole parental role. I'll give him full confirmation. The role of parents is very and very important. I say that children and youth are what we parents are, and we let parents be our children. But marriage frameworks can also help parents. I'll be a little more personal again. I've had a lot of discussions with my girls, my teenage girls, my problems when they tell me how old you are, and everyone else can, all the other kids can be out all night. I know it's just an excuse all the time, but it's also true when I drive on my own sometimes in the middle of the night across town, at certain points, I see when it's two, three, four, but mostly it's just a youth. Once again, I am able to make a good deal of this by explaining my parental role. However, I know that it would be easier for me if there were one legal basis where it would be established here that minors without the escort of older persons after such an hour have no access to bars, do not get this and so on. Perhaps I would say one more thing about the defamation of night peace, because it is also a topic that happens to me quite often in an office near which residents complain that the state does not do anything, that the police do nothing, that the mayor, who has been on a number of occasions, does not do anything to keep the inn and the locals from the day to day, especially during the summer and these months. Here we need to find one smart and real measure, because we know that nightlife must also be, night rest must be that it will probably be necessary for such a person to be forced to move to a more peaceful place or something. I think it is right that we make this law as well as possible, to try together to achieve what is good for all of us citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace certainly needs to be reformed, or we need a new law. In this context, in this debate, as far as I have been following her, I have heard a number of interesting, good proposals, well-intentioned proposals. On the other hand, we have also heard some of the debates from which traumas, ideological intolerance, impatient speech, persecutions and phobias, which, in my opinion, are the result of personal trauma and problems, and in fact, I am surprised that in this way, some people are so impatient about the perfectly well-intentioned provisions of this law. What does it mean that a Member's authoritarian judgment is handed down here, at first reading, when everything is still open, that the law means limiting freedom of expression and movement. Such an unforgivable judgment is given in the first reading and here the law, which does not actually have such drastic consequences in society, is, of course, a restrictive law, which must be restrictive, and it is also right to be restrictive in certain areas. And those who so judge and call on the President of the State to be involved at this stage and it has been said that he will not be as late as he was in the asylum law, so they urge him to block this law to try to block it. But here I really suggest that they go with this marriage to the referendum, now they'll see what they'll get from people. I am sure that the public supports most of the solutions in this law. Now let them show their boldness. This is where perhaps the referendum should begin. And look, because it's normal, I have some comments about marriage myself, because I'm aware that it's in the first reading, and that there's still a lot to change. I explicitly support some things. I'm not gonna touch the ones everyone else is stuck in. Actually, I'm going to say to myself that it's smart to finally get, I think for the first time, a provision on black camping, illegal camping. I must say that this was a major problem for some settlements or for some of the places and agricultural properties that were on very busy roads, at various exits from the roads, so far. Of course, I am not advocating a completely restrictive approach, but here I have noticed when I was walking the world, that it is very different in Slovenia. In fact, private property is respected, and in most cases it is equipped with a "private property" table, meaning certain consequences. Some of us could have set up a black camp, destroyed the owner's crop without any sanctions. I don't know if such a fine will stop it, because I agree with it, but in some way it should allow the owner of this fine to recover this damage. Then also, which has already been partially alerted, but from a second point of view, what is in Article 12, the use of dangerous objects in the first indent of applying carbide for search. I firmly believe it was written by someone who, 30 or 40 years ago, may have had the task of persecuting this massacre at night, which was terribly persecuted. I remember we had to hide from the police. And now, as a reminiscence, it's also a relic in this marriage. And that word carbide, if you're thinking about that innocent crucifixion, I would absolutely do it. Maybe someone thought it would cause something, even though I think it would make such carbide slaughter popular again. In recent years, it has virtually died, but when the police persecuted us, we fell in deep joy. Of course we had to hide away from the house and so on, we all know. But now, if this is prohibited in this way and punished, it'll be interesting for the kids again. Nevertheless, I am in favour of withdrawing this carbide from this law. Of course, acicillin can stay because I realize how dangerous the gas is, if it's in large quantities, it's possible to tear down buildings and so on. But the carbide and that innocent scraping would have been my separation. Perhaps this has also somehow entered into this law on the basis of what we have heard today that some would also ban the ringing of church bells. Some people have a terrible problem with that. I believe it bothers them, but it's probably due to indoctrination, too, that everything that comes from church bells is harmful that it's, I don't know, something that doesn't fit the separation of church from state. Of course, for such solutions, so rigorous, I'm not alone. And now I'm going back to what was said here -- those fears, those phobias and those persecutors. I can't take this any more than it is simply a persecution, that this seems to be the result of a movement for a police state, for a controlled society, if I understand correctly, a movement for Janša's trainers. I find this monstrous, literally monstrous characteristics that I can't understand. But I can understand them perhaps as part of what the party president, from which the colleague who said it, said a month ago that, for example, because she was watching us, his client would be afraid and trembling. It's a relatively hateful speech for me, an impatient speech. He recently said that the Slovenian Democratic Party is very afraid of us. He may have instructed his Members to show such impatience so that some people may experience fear. I don't think it's good to be afraid of the Houses and the Houses. For this reason, I cannot really understand, once again, how do you see the restriction of freedom of expression and movement in this law in such a drastic way? The definitions of some are very surprising, and at the same time, I take it that it is well-intentioned from my colleague Gulic, who pointed out that there is a discrepancy in Article 6 concerning the amount of the fine when fighting in a group or anyone else, that this disharmony is present and that such matters need to be resolved. When I first talked about all the strange observations, the characteristics were given, I would return the ball. I would say that this expression is actually a double morality, although it has been read on the other side before. This double should be noticed, for example, by the highest representative of the party who says they will be afraid and trembling, even though this is legitimate. I would suggest that fear and trembling be based on actually positive proposals, positive efforts in society, but not on some kind of intimidation, creating panic, which is due, as far as I believe, to some phobias and persecutions. In this law I see a positive attempt to do what is actually achieved and protected by this public order. We all know that perfection in this area will never be achieved. That this is probably never achieved and that, in view of the development of society, the development of technical means, the development of all this law needs to be complemented, and today there is an opportunity for the internal ministry to make improvements on the basis of the comments given. I believe that they are open to all positive proposals and that by the end of this law we will have an effective law to help eliminate the anomalies that exist in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca wants a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca wants a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. As the previous speaker may have been disturbed by my statement from the position of my name, I would like to give you two opinions coming from the professional circles. For example, when it comes to the question of the indeterminate criteria relating to the provisions on inappropriate behaviour in a public place, the professor at the Faculty of Police Safety said that it was Mr Peter Umk that it would be difficult to prove rude behaviour. The matter will depend, say, on the very free decision of the police officer and in practice will not be able to live. It is an inappropriate task for police officers who do not fall within their competence, Mr Umek estimates. And let me say another one that is more credible than, Mr Jerovšek, you think I'm alone. Lawyer Stojan Zdolšek says that the determination of inappropriate behaviour in a public place, which provides for a fine of 25 to 100,000 tolars, with the act causing harassment or harassment of people, can be very controversial, from a constitutional and legal point of view, as the government proposal says Zdolšek does not clearly define it, and this is contrary to the rule of law. There are no clear definitions, criteria and criteria left to subjective evaluation, which, without such a normative record, can be very controversial in life and can cause a lot of conflict situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Since there is no replica to the replica, Mr Jerovšek, you will be able to apply for the debate after we have shared the rest of the time. That'll be real quick. I've got mag on my list. She's been practicing if she wants to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	All I'm going to say is that monitoring the debate has led me to decide to give up the debate. The reasons, the arguments that we are referring to, are obviously not relevant, so I am putting an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I believe that much of the debate has gone wrong today, because there has been a lot of talk just about repression, as if it were the only thing that regulates this law, and as if no other regulation in this country would have regulated it. In fact, this law touches on two very important areas of life, in my firm belief, two extremely important issues, including, if you want, two extremely important rights, the right to safety and the right to quality of life. Many of you have already talked about the situation at the Lipa discotheque, but I cannot agree with that LDS member who said that we are simply becoming a risk society and that such things need to be kept up with. On the contrary, as legislators we are obliged to do everything within our constitutional rights to adopt a regulation that will, as far as possible, prevent any similar event, whatever such tragedy, because it was a very serious tragedy. It is also justified, once again as members of this national assembly, to expect those who will enforce the law, to enforce it in a manner that will also go in the same direction, in the direction of the legislator's intention to increase the safety of citizens and citizens by means of an appropriate regulation, to the extent that it is possible to regulate it in this way. We all know, however, that everything is to be foreseen in the future and everything is to be settled in the future, but of course it is not in practice possible. But when we talk about quality of life, I would take advantage of this opportunity to appeal, however, to reexamine everything from the point of view of whether property is sufficiently protected. You talked about the different forms of what's going on, not to repeat it all, but when it comes to property, I would talk about the quality of life, including the enjoyment of this property, it's about the right to have, according to your own words, a rule that allows you to do so, behind the walls of your house, peace. Some of you have spoken here, yes, because if there is a place where they break up night and day, then those who are disturbed should move out. You know, I can't agree with that logic. Everyone probably has an example in his environment when a place opened up in the middle of a very quiet residential area, and it must have been in the permit to write down what I know is allowed to open, say, by ten o'clock in the evening. But then, what happens when there should be peace when people start going home, they try to attract an extra audience, so that they can turn on some very loud sound, which then breaks up, God knows, until ever in the night. And especially older people, as well as what very small children, of course, this tremendously disturbs and also significantly reduces the quality of life. I therefore stress once again, and we can rightly expect legislators to implement this regulation in a manner that will give the greatest measure of security and at the same time the highest possible measure of quality of life, to the extent that this can be ensured. As far as everything else is concerned, it is my opinion that it should also be considered whether, however, it was justified to go out because it was because of public pressure during the public debate, because it was organised political pressure on only some. Personally, I don't know if all these things are really European comparable now with us, but my wish is that it would be, and if it turns out to be at the time of further discussion and consideration in order to be necessary, it would be good for me to think about any such amendment. And that would be the end of it. However, colleagues who feel that things need to be dealt with in the future would once again urge them to reconsider their decision and to support the law, which is a suitable basis for further consideration, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to be very brief because I've talked a lot. However, I would point to one thing that is more professional in nature and relates to the definition of public spaces. It is crucial how public spaces are defined and whether all the premises concerned in some way are in fact well defined. One of the things that is is that the concept of public space is defined by the fact that this space is accessible to everyone. On the other hand, you have a defined private space where entry is also legally protected, as you know, for example an apartment where entry is allowed only with the permission of the owner. Among these are other types of spaces, which are half public or have certain features of public space, but, of course, restrictions on accessibility. And at least three types of spaces should, in fact, not just two, define this law. The first space is of course a public space, an external public space such as streets, parks, even this outer space in the city and elsewhere where accessibility is possible for everyone. Then the so-called internal public spaces, the internal public spaces are public buildings, such as museums, libraries and, above all, public health homes and all kinds of things. Finally, we should also define so-called quasi-public spaces. There was a lot of talk about them. These are restaurants, innkeepers, shops, shopping centres and the like, where access in principle can be granted to everyone, but the owner or manager joins the right to regulate this access, such as with tickets, such as a stadium with tickets, and other stories. And this distinction between these public spaces and the sharing of responsibility for public order and peace should be made more consistently and more precisely. This distribution also corresponds to the established standards governing urban planning and design. And it would be right to refer to these established divisions of public spaces which could be subject to regulation in terms of public order and peace. It's just, you could say, a technical, professional warning that I hope they will, if the law is appropriate, which I don't think they will try to take into account in future readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. And the last in front of the minister, Mr. Ljublješek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister! De Gaulle has spoken famous words in Parliament, Members of Parliament, democracy yes, anarchy does not. I would expect that this thought as a red thread would also be the thread of today's debate. Throughout the history of mankind, certain standards of conduct and values that have changed over centuries and over time have always been required, respected, and respected, but have been and lived with. We therefore have before us a proposal for a new law on the protection of public order and peace, which will undoubtedly play the role of advocates, as well as critics. Public order and peace are good, as has been heard today, only when they are broken. They are therefore the good of everyday work and of life, which ensures a safe and peaceful feeling and is a minimum of social rules that people understand as essential for cohabitation in the environment in which we live. We must therefore be aware that the rights of one person are limited to the rights of the other, and thus it is also a condition for the protection of privacy and the provision of life in a secure environment. With various records and thoughts in the public and in the media, it is becoming a very bitter taste that some or even many people in this country do not feel safe and that they do not have peace. However, we can read a statement coming from the opposition saying that this law is a very slippery ground with regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms and that the law interferes with human rights and freedoms. And the conclusion, I quote, "I just can't believe that this kind of law is made in our country." This was from the opposition to be expected, and I'm not surprised at all. I am aware that the Law on Public Order and Peace is one of those laws whose provisions are probably impossible to formulate in such a way that everyone agrees with them. However, due to public order and peace, we also need a good implementation of the law. It is therefore our duty and duty to ensure that people are safe and orderly, by law to exercise the individual's right to security and dignity, to protect the individual from acts that disturb peace and excitement. At the same time as mobility and the pace of life, people's expectations of rapid action and normal conditions are still well justified. When people were disturbed and upset, Lipa happened to us. A tragic event that must have touched me even more than anyone here, because I live almost in the immediate neighborhood and I know well how long before the tragedy was warned and asked for something to be done before it was too late. In this case, many have been denied, so there is no excuse. The Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is one of the oldest laws in the world, and it must be updated. However, it is probably difficult and impossible to record violations that are unacceptable in our country and in our society in such a way that there is no possibility of abuse, after all, there are many things that are considered by most to be unacceptable, a matter of education and image. So we should also deal with such matters in school and in the family. It is impossible to claim that the law should determine exactly what is a violation and what is not permitted. There are always and there will be socialities that cannot be prevented. There will always be gray zones of marriage if they try to be more precise. I am convinced that the proposal for a law is well drafted because it is intended to ensure and regulate the safety and well-being of an individual in society and should be at least one of the parts of a positive society. The law has a good basic basis, as lawyers know, that the rights of an individual are limited to the rights of others. If the acts defined by this law disturb and disturb other people, it interferes with their rights. I'm only going to touch some articles that I'm sure we have different opinions about. Article 6, paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 shall specifically protect family, extra-marital and related relations, the so-called domestic violence, in private premises and also in a public place. This should establish a stronger basis for effective protection of family members. In one way or another, we are obliged to prevent violence against children and the family. And if the text in this article is too little, let us complement it only to achieve the reduction of this evil that is happening to us in our society. Article 9 which prohibits begging, with a person harassing people. I believe that begging is a way of life and will not be eradicated by any law. Therefore, special attention must be paid to this. Therefore, it is not an offence to harass a person in this grave. Article 10, which the Council of State considers that the punishment of the beggars for sleeping is not humane and constitutes a lack of hearing for the life we live. I agree with this statement in principle, and nevertheless allow me to present two personal experiences. In a block in the middle of Ljubljana, where I lived a few years ago, a man ran into a bicycle shop and slept there, as we all knew, and that did not disturb us. Within a week, it turned out that the same man had completely emptied all the cellars, and what he had collected he had already sold. And another personal experience that remains in the memory of life. I came 15 years from a small poor village in Dolenjska, Ljubljana, for admission exams to the secondary technical school, which, without knowing it, lasted two days. But I only had the money to drive the train home. Since I knew no one in Ljubljana and was in Ljubljana for the first time, I slept in Tivoli on a bench. The militiaman woke me up and left me in control until morning. So these are two experiences from the same infringement, positive and negative. And that is why in such cases it will be necessary to have a mature and wise judgment - that if there is no interference of people, there is no element of the offence. Article 11, it is illegal to offer sexual services in a public place or street prostitution. The emphasis is on whether or not someone is in the way; most adults would probably not mind. But if there are children present, it's something else. Therefore, it is probably right that this is recorded in the law. However, I allow the possibility that the text may be too precise and that it should still be addressed. If the law before us is to achieve its purpose, it is right for local communities, with their leaders, to take over part of the responsibility for ensuring security and peace in their environment. We will need police with experience and knowledge, who will act with soundness of mind and wisdom in the sense that the most often enough is a reminder and the last resort is fine, because if there are no elements of human interference, there is no element of wrongdoing. Let me repeat to the end: democracy is not anarchy. In our narrow and broader environment, people want and want public order and peace and security and protection when all of this is broken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully to all the comments you have made in your discussions, or also to the opinions you have expressed. I was a little surprised to find out what the law on the protection of public order and peace was all about. I've got a little wider horizons, I'm thinking mostly Iraq, and everything else. I don't think it has anything to do with this, but it's the right thing to say. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal for a law has been on the rise for a long time, that the text that emerged in the middle of last year was subject to a broad public debate. Various organisations were involved. The law was sent to the Ombudsman, civil society organisations, all ministries, the Law Service, in coordination with the Community and the Association of Communities, including judges for offences, as well as experts from the Faculty of Law. Somehow, with the help of all these comments, we have somehow tried to draw up a proposal that we have today on the table. I was also surprised to learn that the word "moral" is used all the time, that there is a new norm in the law or that the law tends to set new moral principles and that the word "moral" is in marriage. The word "moral" has never been mentioned in marriage. The law was interpreted differently by various experts. Today the opinions of some who are not legal experts have been presented here. I might be talking about an article that was specifically mentioned here. This article mentioned another opinion, not only those listed, but also the opinion of Dr. Iglicar, who viewed this law as a well-prepared law and a good basis for assessing this area of work differently. I would also say something about the repression of this law and compare it with the law and repression in those parts of the crimes we have known, and we know them in the law currently in force, a beating, a fine of up to 300,000, an old law or now a valid law prison of up to 60 days. Strike or fight up to 150,000, current prison law up to 60 days. And I could count it that way. There's something else about the lockup. Conduct in a bold manner cannot be defined; it is also known by the current law, prison for up to 60 days. Now it's a fine of 60 to 120,000 tolars. I can continue to argue, scream and indecency, which is also defined in the current law, prison for up to 30 days. Intrusive and offensive way, when someone's begging, they're in jail for up to 60 days. Injury of the inscription or designation of the public authority, imprisonment up to 30 days. I am talking about the maximum penalties that have been in force since 1974. It is true, and I must also say this directly, that in recent times the courts have not passed these maximum sentences. That's a fact. However, these penalties still exist. Some other cases, such as an abusive behaviour towards an official who is suddenly impossible to identify, are defined in the current law by a penalty of between 120 000 and 30 days in prison. The proposed penalty, or fine, is between 100 and 200 thousand. And yet another issue in criminal policy is extremely important and somehow no one has touched it. Every punishment or procedure a police officer carries out will be carried out in a very similar way. Every call we receive, as someone mentioned, will now be many more calls, the police have responded by now and will be in the future. They'll have to assess what's going on at the scene. In doing so, the policeman will be able to decide what he could not decide so far to give a warning in accordance with the Act on Offences. This can't be done by cops in the current legislation. They can or they can't punish. And one more important thing. All decisions of police officers and sentences imposed shall be brought before the court. Anyone who violates any provision and thinks that a police officer has acted improperly will be able to ensure that these matters are resolved with judicial redress. There were a lot of comments here on individual articles. I might touch some. Let's say Article 2 and general terms of public space, private space. I must say that we have very many laws in this country, and this law has no tendency to put itself above all the other laws that define these areas. In particular, what is this facility in public use, what is a public area, we have very precisely defined in the 2002 and 2003 Construction Act. And a number of other laws define a number of things that were listed here today and are described there in very detail. There was talk of carbide and why there was no firecracker in there. Peter’s marriage is not very simple because the law on explosives and weapons defines even this area, when, how it can be used, under what criteria. It's not like Carbide's weapon or explosives, and that's why he's somehow being set up here. I'm not gonna say it's the right ranking, but it is. The government and, of course, the ministry that drafted this law in cooperation with everyone else has no tendency to clear the streets. Reading is not prohibited and it would not be appropriate to prohibit it. It's not illegal to write graffiti, we're just trying to limit where these graffiti are supposed to be written. And certainly there are cases that could be listed in very large detail, when and when it is not appropriate. However, I think it is very clear to all of us how the owner of the building feels, which in the center of the city restored the entire building and spent so much and so much on monumental protection, that the building returned to its original state, and then the next morning he finds this building equipped with various inscriptions. I think graffiti are part of a culture that has been caught up in Slovenia, that it is right, that it is also expressed in some way, but still in some places where it even engenders a very monotonous urban environment, if I say so. Like a railway approach, some other objects where it can very much revive even the event and destroy the grayness of that object that is somewhere and is somehow public. I would also like to touch on the fact that there are a number of laws that define the very many things that have been mentioned here. Pedophilia, too. Pedophilia is precisely defined in the Criminal Procedure Act and this law has no ambition to amend the Criminal Procedure Act. She doesn't have one, and it wouldn't be right if she had one. Here we have tried to use such dictions as to give ample opportunity to ensure public order and peace as best possible. With regard to punishment and the comparison between the old law and the law in force and the bill in force, I think I have made clear enough what major changes are being made and how much repression the Ministry and the police want in the future. It's a matter of substantial deviations down. There are also some other dictions, such as those specifically mentioned by several Members. Article 6. Violent and daring behavior. The current law defines matters if I simplify them and practically say if someone attacks someone, starts beating them, and if that person defends himself, he is punished and treated the same way as the person who attacked him and started beating him. It's the law that makes this happen. And so we also have different articles or paragraphs of this article, and in the beginning it is defined what a fight is, and what it is if someone just strikes someone. It's an act where one person hits one person and it doesn't come to anything else. That's one offense. The second offense is where there is a fight and the explanation is very precise about what part means. There are also different penalties for this. And it's true what someone in a very interesting way said to get half. It's true, every crime like that gets half if you pay it right away because that's what the law says about crimes. So the penalties are even lower than they are written here if someone commits this offence immediately. It is also true that we are introducing a new, fairly strong mandate for the police to shut down energy sources. I think this provision is quite strict, but unfortunately it is also necessary. This isn't just about shutting down electricity, it's about shutting down any energy source that someone's using. We believe that the police will not abuse this and will use it only when it is impossible otherwise to prevent violations of public order and peace. Maybe he'd just say two more things. Someone named me in the debate, at least I think, the police minister. I don't know what that meant exactly, but I'm the minister who runs the Ministry of the Interior, where the police are just one of the bodies in the structure, and I'm dealing with a much broader issue. And this law was not prepared by the police, but by one of the Directorates responsible for it in the branch of the Ministry of Administration, where there are no police officers or uniformed persons employed. So I think it would be right to be called by the right title, but not by some flattering titles that have nothing to do with the work I'm doing. I would add that this law could probably be supplemented by some suggestions. Personally, I will be very happy if the law is confirmed after this first reading and we are able to complete it in the second reading. I will be very pleased with every amendment proposal that we will examine and upgrade very thoroughly in the Ministry of Professional Services. There's only one thing I'd like to say that's related to abstraction of concepts. We have quite a few decisions of the Constitutional Court. [[I can quote them if anyone wants to.]] , which, inter alia, speak of the legislator using a way to create a legal norm where it cannot foresee in advance all possible actual positions that may arise in a particular area of legal regulation. And then another decision by the Constitutional Court, which speaks, when the legislator has to use abstract terms and when specific. The area of work or the area covered by the Law on the Safety of Public Order and Peace is, unfortunately, one of such areas where the law cannot record all the situations that have taken place in our lives. That is why we will always be in a situation, as we are today - that there will be no misunderstanding, even today there are policemen in a situation where they have to judge and decide what is going on. According to the statistics we have in the Ministry, which we are monitoring, there are very few mistakes that police officers make in this assessment are very few mistakes. Under similar criteria, they will also have to judge in the future whether this law is passed or not, for today they also judge what the act is when someone insults an official, for example. Even today, the police judge it. We believe that the law, however, regulates certain matters much better, specifies them more and puts them into such a framework that, with your help and your ideas, this law can be further improved and then have some modern law that can ensure good and effective public order and peace in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether, pursuant to Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss and I ask that you now raise all your hands so that we can share the time justly. Thank you very much. I'll read it. I'll read it all again so you can tell me if the list is correct. I will read without titles to be faster, Potrata, Weber, Jerovšek, Grims, Gantar, Gulič, Janc, Kovacic. Did I let anyone go? [[No, no, ……]] Then every five minutes I have time for an additional debate. And the first one is mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Well, on the question of what is public order and peace, the answer is complicated. I can only answer the question of what is the order. Order's always stuck to me staying in your area. Now let's make a joke. When it comes to public order and peace, all appropriate permits can be obtained, yet people will still have different views on whether or not public order is a problem. For example, let's say the Lent event, fireworks, is all reported, but a group of citizens and citizens will still think that their health is at risk because they have heart problems, but it is a matter of digging and similar things, would not continue. So I think that these things, what is socially acceptable and what is not socially acceptable, there is always some gray field of personal interpretation. I would therefore like the law on public order and peace to be acceptable to all. Whether we take a closer look at things or not is another question. I have no doubt, however, that there is a large enough majority in this National Assembly that will consider the law to be a suitable basis for dealing with it, so allow the honourable Minister to state some of my concerns about this text. If I look at the first chapter of this law, where there are general provisions, I understand the placement of the first three articles, but I find it difficult to believe that the placement of Articles 4 and 5 at this point is necessary, in particular because Article 4 is repeated in article 15 with the same subtitle, the exaggeration of the foreign flag, but there is only a crime, or perhaps the collection of voluntary contributions, then in Article 18, there are only voluntary contributions in the chapter of the offence, which means when the collection of voluntary contributions becomes an offence and there is also a fine, it is nevertheless good to consider whether it makes sense to leave Article 4 and 5 under general provisions, since there is no general provision on other matters. However, I would like to see a number of definitions of the term in Article 2, which is now not there. And if I am already weighing between good and bad, between the comments and what I find here, in Article 6, you have indirectly implemented the recommendation of the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, which at the time was not accepted in the National Assembly, that physical punishment of children is unacceptable. Here in Article 6, you considered him an offence, even one that could be sanctioned, but again only when it is a violation of public order and peace. Here, then, I am asked whether it is the same treatment or not. When a child weeps and screams, it is a crime, so that others hear. Yes, here you have a blood relative in a straight line. But if you didn't think of children, then it's even worse because you have adopters or foster parents, foster parents or foster parents, so the foster parents and foster parents are better off than the children, if understanding is different. If I go to some other people like that. Where the chapter violates public order, Article 6, violent and presumptuous conduct. I know very clearly what violent behavior is. I am no longer convinced, however, that insolence is always a violation of public order and peace, but an insult is something other than presumptuous conduct if it is related to what is hidden in Article 3 or, in fact, here are actually the violations themselves listed, but not only the infringements listed everywhere. For example, Article 22 is the order of the inn establishment, but it is only an offence when the owner did not warn him to report a violation of the order. So camping on its own is no big deal, but it's probably illegal camping. If you have taken care of these things in one way, it would be good to keep an eye on other things. However, I am aware that the issue of public order and peace is [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you, for your word. When we talk about safety and quality of life, it is certainly very important how we maintain public order and peace and I would like to draw attention to some of the articles that regulate this area, but I am not clear enough. But I know from practice that this is already a problem today. I would start with this very camping area or what we might consider, I would say, public order and peace. Someone who camps in an unspecified place will be punished by the competent authority. And then what? Does the person who camps there when he pays for this punishment stay in this area or does he have to leave this place or what happens if he leaves this place and comes back and camps again in one day, in a nutshell, if I may call it, repeatedly? In these cases, police officers point out that, in the case of the same offence, they cannot act because the measure has already been pronounced twice. What if he repeats this action three times, four times, five times, or the police can act, even if someone repeats this act repeatedly? According to previous statements, police officers say that they must not say this if it is a recurring act. First of all, I'm wondering what it's gonna be like at this point when you find out he's camping in an illegal place, paying a fine, or then this place actually has to leave. The following practical example would try to link to municipal infrastructure or vandalism. It's about Article 17. Talks about who deliberately flips, removes, or otherwise treats economic public infrastructure facilities in a way contrary to the purpose of use. Someone who opens up a garbage can is doing it completely, I'll say, with regulations with this container, with this infrastructure. Of course, the content in this container is often easily transferred from the vessel to the surface by the vessel. I also wonder if this article 17 could be understood as vandalism. In any case, it's a deterioration, I'd say, of a residential environment where it happens. Many times we face these cases, when someone actually emptys the container, is looking for certain objects and so on and finds them in a way that does not throw away the contents, but simply puts them aside. How in this case? Is it vandalism? Is it a violation of public order and peace? How to act in this case? Does the law also have a solution for such cases? In other words, I believe that, in addition to the financial penalties provided for in the individual infringement of public order and peace, I think that it would be possible to see more successful, in addition to the financial penalties, what is also the so-called socially beneficial work. That someone who has defiled an object, a monument with color or similar action, removes it physically and, I don't know, even obligates it to care for this facility for a whole year so that this action doesn't happen again, let's say, by someone else, or maybe by himself, even. Is it possible to think that in this law we would have not only anticipated fines, but also a form of socially beneficial work, so that someone who causes some damage that we have to eliminate usually by public means, of course, will do so in some way by doing their own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. First, I should reply to my colleague, Shirtz, who referred to me, but did not replicate what I said, what was at stake in her debate, which she accused, assessed as the introduction of a police, a repressive state, a society, supervision and so on. She was responsible for the various qualifications of inappropriate behaviour. I have read this too, and I take the authors as completely well-intentioned and relevant questions as well. I am also interested in whether it is possible to assess the rude behavior that has proven to have caused harassment, harassment, including advertising of the killer Pluto in the newspapers and on the TV media. Whether it was rude conduct in this case or it was allowed and possible and any restriction would be accepted as a restriction on freedom of expression and speech. And I am now pleased that in his final final debate, the Minister has pointed to the relationship between the former law and the solutions, which are repressive, with the former law on public order and peace and the current solutions. And as a result, I find such a qualification so unusual that it is a law that tries to limit freedom of expression and movement. And if they were here or a colleague was present, I would ask her because she also declared that it was a law by which the police would clean the streets so that they would be run over by a tomato tank. This alluding to, well, to be on current affairs, but on the basis of previous laws, the police have cleaned up the locals, the streets, the raids, I witnessed these things several times as a student, not least when the then great revolutionary was dying here in Ljubljana in the Clinical Center, the proms were banned, everything was banned. I don't know. Maybe she was a journalist at the time. I don't remember her protesting against such repressive methods. It is as if now in Israel, when Sharon is in a coma, all living things are forbidden. I don't know, but apparently on the basis of a repressive state, but some people here are now repugnant, but they didn't protest at the time. I don't remember, I'd certainly read it, I'd probably read it then, and I'd remember their good deeds. And I'm afraid he's hitting from these people some sort of subconscious theory that they actually want the police states, the repressive states, if they were in power, because how do you explain that the party's president is real and colleague Majda is probably from his faction that they'll be scared and trembling. How in democracy you imagine that a party will be afraid and trembling for the citizens. Only with the help of a police state, aggressive methods, but this is no longer a democracy. But apparently in the programme of a faction within this opposition party, such intentions are disguised. And it's a suppressed dream and a suppressed desire. And I'm afraid that such things are actually dangerous if they don't come from some phobias or stalkers. They have different reasons. But since such statements have fallen on fear and trembling for the citizens, I fear that this is a more important issue in this direction and, of course, against opposition. I am for a democratic state, for the relatively small powers of the police, but, of course, the police and the authorities are also able to act, for unacceptable phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I have decided to take a very tolerant approach, but I would still ask everyone else not to provoke the replicas that are no longer possible in this stage. I ask for peace in the hall and allow me to proceed with the list. It's mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr President, for establishing public order and peace in this Chamber. Since I was very serious earlier, I will now try with some humor, and sometimes in Slovenia it is good to lead to absurdity, and then start to think about something. In fact, earlier, one of the opposition's colleagues had expressed concern that the sound clauses would not cover the child's crying. Such fear is surely exceeding, for in the old way, even in the former South, it was the right of opinion; God forbid that you opened your mouth. Of course, the new constitution gives everyone the right to express themselves and the children express their opinions with crying, so the constitution is already making any such attempt impossible. I think that it referred to something else - the old Slovenian wisdom, after which in the life of each long-term partnership there are three periods: the first period when he speaks and she listens, the second period when she speaks and he listens, and the third period when both of them speak and listen to the neighbors. And I believe that this has been established relevant for this third period in life. Otherwise, I would have touched on the debate of one of my colleagues here close, who said it was for order, not for anarchy. But the pinch of anarcholiberalism only came into public debate also in this law. In fact, the rule that touched offensive gestures fell out. Then, you will remember, the LDS expressed outstanding support for raising the middle finger because it said it was a civilizational acquisition; at least that's what it said in the media, so I guess that's true. Well, now that this provision is no longer available, they can of course uninterruptedly use it further, perhaps even institutionalize it as their greeting. And if they decide and the LDS will use the civil acquisition of the raised middle finger at their congress, it will be an extraordinary scene when everyone waits for the president of their party in this way and he will heal them, and in this they will all be honest, we all know that we know the situation in the LDS very well. Well, this way, there will be great recognition at home and abroad. Personally, however, I would very much like Slovenia to be recognized in a more quality way abroad, according to the culture of life that we have in Slovenia, to be overcome, and I think it would be appropriate to consider, therefore, whether to some reasonable extent this would be determined by some amendment only to return to this law so that such absurdities as I have been talking about would not occur. And that. Those who have advocated free graffiti around, perhaps on the Internet or otherwise would have published the addresses of your private houses and when covered with graffiti, I am sure that you will change your opinion very quickly. But to all of us, and once again, I expect you to support the good marriage before us. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Here, too, I must point out that the debate and criticism of individual parties and individual actions does not lead anywhere. We are having a general debate on the proposal for a law on public order and peace and please stick to this topic. Mag. Squeaky, procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Mr President, my procedural proposal is similar to what you said. I would like, of course, to be here in the National Assembly when we discuss the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace, to talk about the content of this law and to act as if we are in a national assembly, not at a party meeting like that or otherwise. I believe that, of course, Mr Grims sometimes finds it difficult to separate whether he is in the SDS meeting or he is in the National Assembly, but, however, Mr President, it is your job to remind him that we are in the National Assembly and are discussing the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace. And in this democratic procedure in the National Assembly, different parties, different Members and Members are allowed to give their opinion and this is not a violation of public order and peace if individuals have a different opinion. This is a general debate, Mr Grims, and it is not intended for you here to discuss such or different stories of individuals or individual parties. So, President, if you fully respect the Rules of Procedure and of course remind Mr Grimes accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Of course, I have done my job, but I have a way of leading that is as democratic as possible and only to people in principle, unless it exceeds all limits, I do not fall into the word. I warned him after the final debate. Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I ask that, within the framework of your powers as Chair-in-Office of the Committee of the Parties to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, you correct, rebut or ask him to leave the Chamber if he cannot refrain from violating the Rules of Procedure. It's an apparent violation. I have not seen anything in the debate of Comrade Grimes that would not be related to this law. I must say that I also do not accept your criticism at my expense, I am not guilty of some contentious statement to the President of the parties, and in the case of an argument for this law, who wants a repressive state, who wants to control citizens, also includes such findings or such things from the parties' programme. I'm really asking you to punish my friend Squeak for misusing the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Mr. Grimes, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	I would like to draw attention to the question of double criteria. Look, earlier, some very harsh insults were made at the expense of the Minister and at the expense of the SDS in this Chamber, but I don't remember them reacting so protonously every time. But when someone with a little humor alerts something, and this warns about something that was very clearly exposed to this law in the course of the debate, and it can also be verified and documented, then a warning begins and a very long debate develops here. I would warn you that at least what's going on is double standards. I would remind you earlier that it has been said that this law establishes, as has already been said, one Janšev system, I don't know what, repressive organs or anything like that, I don't remember the exact text. We can look inside or Janša's "dressers," sorry, it was said. If anyone has not remembered at the time, forgive me if a person hesitates a bit about a matter where I think such a joke has been in place because it warns of the absurdity of some controversy which has been given to this extent in the course of public debate, and also points to some weakness, a potential flaw in this law. I don't think such a warning from your side is in place. And once again, keep the same standards for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes for that kind warning. In the future, however, you better follow the session and assess when and at what stage a statement has been made. What you mentioned was not stated during my presidency, so I have absolutely no credit or injustice for it. I cannot respond to what was said during the presidency of my predecessor. We're moving on. We have some other applicants to discuss. It's Dr. Gantar's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! It's true, as my esteemed colleague Grimes says, who will be able to answer for the replica after he has said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Replic is not at this stage. Please don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Great. Then he won't pick up. Thank you very much. The Constitution has indeed given freedom of expression, and unfortunately the Constitution does not guarantee that this freedom of expression always has a tail and head. And his performance is pointing this way. I have to say that I am more in favour of freedom of expression and I have no problem with the LDS being mentioned in connection with this law on public order and peace, because this party will cause you a lot of unrest and disorder in the next two, three years and you will also have to deal with it in one way or another. However, I think there have been some discussions, and I will join them, constructively. Especially the one about suppressed consciousness. And what I propose to the Minister is a new article. I also propose to the article that whoever has repressed desires and also publicly manifests them is punished with a fine of 120 thousand tolars. I think this is a very good thing, and Mr Jerovšek will be able to operationalise this matter. Besides, I was gonna say two more serious things. First of all, morale, it's true, there's no marriage, and it'd be weird if there was. Of course, it codifies it and legalizes it through interpretations of indecency, insulting excitement, intrusive behavior, etc. And here I'm surprised that old and new marriages are compared. Of course, the old law put all emphasis on the title, etc. The old law had prison sentences and also those of certain functions, if a state visit came, they broke down people and put them in prison for three days, burn down nothing, etc. What we're telling you is that this marriage of yours is too small to break with the tradition of this law. Too little, not too much. And secondly, the last remark is the exclusion of energy resources. Here I am asked a question for which it would be good to think about it, but it is a question of water. I don't really know how to put water as an energy source in the context of an apartment. He's more into the heat after the apartment, the heating and the like. But I don't understand what the gas is, what the electricity is, I don't understand the leadership as the source of the energy source, because I haven't seen the small hydropower plants built at home myself. But they can be, I don't know, but I don't know them. However, at the same time, I would like to draw attention to water legislation that uses the right to access water and use water as a public good and specifically points out that no one should be deprived of water for drinking and for personal use. I would, however, check in what sense water is like an energy source, why it is limited. I don't know if you're afraid someone's going to pop through the window by the pastures or something. However, I would point out that I would consider whether water really is such an energy source in an apartment that should be limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Dear President! I must first thank Mr Jerovšek, who has so vividly visualized Majda Shirz that I have seen her. I hope that TV viewers too, and even the controversy was such that I even heard her answer. Let's drop it. I would really like to explain to the Minister what the problem is with Article 6. Article 6 is really wrong, and here, excuses 50% punishment if you pay quickly, they don't make sense. It literally says here that whoever fights is punished with a fine of 300,000 tolars. That's probably what a crowd of people are meant to be. I hope people who fight are punished with a fine. Those who fight, they're bullies, they're the ones who whip themselves, we're not gonna punish them. It is necessary to write clearly and in active form. And the second line says whoever hits or beats someone, that's a big difference. If I hit anyone, I ain't hit him yet. And there must be at least two indents here. Whoever hits someone is punished, I don't know how, but who beats someone, but of course much more. The one who is beaten is usually injured, can have some kind of fracture, says it can be serious injuries and is, of course, a different punishment than if someone hits someone. That was the talk, which is about a very awkward, demeaning dictatorship, and such a thing needs to be settled. It's not the only thing in this marriage, but of course it was very obvious here. And that's why I talked. I didn't say one thing before, which also smells like those pre-1990 laws. This is related to the hanging of the flag, which is Article 15, where anyone who hangs a foreign flag that is damaged or otherwise inappropriate is punished with a fine. In fact, I do not think that this has anything to do with this law, but even less than the 16th article, which in a public place burns or otherwise damages or destroys the flag or coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, the flag of the European Union, the flag of another country, is being punished. The burning of flags is usually not a matter of negligence, but is a very desirable act and belongs to the area of freedom of speech. That's how the U.S. court ruled when they talked about it. And now it would be funny, Americans who can burn at home, but here we shouldn't, and so on, their flag. I think it's too much. It is of course a matter of course, it belongs to an area of decent, rude, insulting, but I do not think that punishment should be or that it has nothing to do with it. We've been to that carbide before, it's about digging, not how it's caused by scratching, and it would be enough if it was just scratching. And one more thing, I hope to find her soon enough. I'd be more concerned with how the cops are going to evaluate this. You need to know that a series of misunderstandings and then also a violation of public order and peace are due mainly to the fact that police officers treat all citizens from a paternalistic position. That is how they are taught, and they will likely need to be taught something else. A father’s posture is, of course, appropriate when it comes to a police officer who is older than the person in question, not when a police officer is younger or when he is of the same age. It always causes conflict. If there is anything else in between, of course, the matter may be even worse, that is not the law, but the implementing matters, but I think it is also appropriate to point that out at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman. The fifth hour of the debate is on, and some are already getting a little nervous, but a little patience, and this debate will be over. Lipa, a very vivid picture of the tragedy ahead of us, which has unfortunately happened, and I think it is also in the spirit of this law, which is being drawn up by the Ministry or Government, public order and peace, that we must also feel a little of this charge now in the debate. However, I said earlier in the debate that the youth party must be, times are changing. In our time, it was a little different, today it's different, in 20 years it'll be different again. This must be adapted to the environment, legislation, society, government and parliament. And last but not least, one of these stories is this law that we are discussing here today. I think that the debate is interesting, colorful, of course, there are also different views, which is also right, because this is the end of Parliament. And I think that the ministry of this team will also help this first debate to enrich it with certain points of view, to add certain content to it, and so the opposition colleagues are constantly preparing it through the debate. However, I think that the fact that the police who have such a mission must step on the fingers of those who are doing harm, either in public or in the private sector, who are causing unrest to such and different environments. And last but not least, I am convinced that this law, which will improve even better by the final reception of the National Assembly, will give what the proposer, as well as we in the National Assembly, agrees. This is a step forward in this area, which is very broad, which is very specific, which touches each and every local environment as soon as possible. I also agree that the police must have their powers if they want to act. It is true that sometimes criticism is against the police if they do not act, and sometimes even if they act. It's never right. Basically, we're in a position where we're in front of the police as citizens. I know a cop like that is confusing, making mistakes, like every man, like every man, even an MP, not least. And yet this legislation, which I hope we will probably adopt in the near future, will give some framework, some progress, a new step also to the police and, last but not least, the web of all these events in which we live, will cover this common image, which will best give to public order and peace and a step also to local communities. It is also right that local communities are involved in this story, editorial services, one they have, one they don't have, one they will have. However, we all work together to make sure that this story goes one step further in the local environment. And yet, in the end, that's all I'd say. You know, even such a good law that we will adopt, which I hope, at the request of or at the discretion of as many members of this national assembly, will not be so good, or police will not be so good and fine if there is no responsibility of parents, families, educators, schools, kindergartens and local communities and the local environment. We are all responsible for these successes together to make sure that we take this step for the better, because only the police and only this law will certainly not be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to the last two discussers for taking us back from the verbal beating to the parliamentary debate. Mr Kovacic has the last word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that I do not have to ask Mr Cwickle's permission about what I am thinking and how I am going to say. Of course, I would like to know what his opinion is on what I say. Well, if I go to the content itself. In my debate, I have devoted a considerable period of time to the distinction between discretionary rights and the right of judgment. And since this matter has continued to repeat itself, I will reiterate that the police officer has no discretionary right of decision and cannot decide on anything that is not enshrined in the law as a violation of public order and peace. Of course, it has and must have the right to judge a particular act, whether it has elements of wrongdoing, violations of public order and peace, as set out in the law. In doing so, he certainly has the right and duty to make a life - style assessment of this action, not bureaucratic, but life - style. And I think it's also the task of the police leadership to teach police officers in their educational process that things are being judged for life. In the debate, it was said, as far as begging is concerned, by two fellow Members - I think it was Mrs Póteta and Mrs Shirca - how should a policeman determine whether or not there has been public upheaval? Here it must be made very clear that there is no need for the public to be alarmed in this action. There is no need for this additional condition to be laid down that it is a violation of public order and peace, but it is sufficient only to have someone in an intrusive or offensive way begging. Well, it's not just the begging, but if it's done in an intrusive or insulting way. However, I cannot go past Mrs Pecanovo's debate, which in some case mentioned that it had happened in Isola, where she was the mayor, said that she had to intervene on her own, that the police had not done what they had intended and sanctioned some of the behaviour that they considered necessary to sanction. And then she stopped it. I mean, it's an outrageous act that someone in the mayor's office stopped the police from doing what she thought was necessary. I think it was my duty to warn you that this was unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I conclude more than a five-hour debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour at half seven. At 6.30 p.m., we continue the meeting and begin the voting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll continue as told at 6:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats and calm down. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Thank you for checking. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - consideration of the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., for the mandate period from 24 May 2001 to 24 May 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the draft decisions proposed by the Committee for Budgetary Control and other public finances for adoption. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the drug law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 68. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 75. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 81. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 5. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 101. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 5. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 102. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 59 for them, against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly concerning the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. As he said earlier this morning, the amendments adopted by the public agency and the field of pharmaceutical supervision have led to some inconsistencies. These inconsistencies occurred in Articles 61 and 104, which were not opened in the second reading with the proposal of the harmonisation amendment to Article 61, in addition to the designation of the pharmacist in the call test, certain specific conditions are also harmonised. Article 104 provides for the powers of pharmaceutical supervisors. Article 111, formerly 107c, included in this Article provisions which fall within the transitional provisions by their content. These are provisions on the dispersion of resources from the current Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the amendment in Article 112 is editorial in nature, since the content relates exclusively to the third and second paragraphs of this Article and in the new fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 120 are thus transferred to the content of the previous text of Article 111 relating to the pooling of new sources of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Institute for Pharmacy and Drug Testing. I hereby submit the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Since the government has warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted, the Government has drawn up the harmonisation amendments you have received on the bench. We will go in line, first of all to discuss and vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 61 of the Act. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 61. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 104. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 58 of whom voted against one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to debate and vote on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 111. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 58 for them, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to debates and votes on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 112. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a debate and a vote on the government's harmonisation amendment to Article 120. Anybody want a debate? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the first reading of the bill on the protection of public order and peace. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace, first considered, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the extradition and takeover of persons whose entry or residence is illegal. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - To the defence of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the instrument on amendments and additions to the constitution of the international telecommunications connection and the instrument on amendments to the International Telecommunications Convention. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the European Agreement on the Work of Crews on Vehicles engaged in international road transport. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. DOCTOR OF THE DAY LINE - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A COOPERATION LAW ON RATIFICATION OF A COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF LATIA ON COOPERATION IN THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM, ORGANISED CRIMINAL, PROHIBITIONAL TREATMENT WITH REFERRED DRUGS, PSYCHOPHOPICS AND PREVIOUS COMPOSIONS AND OTHER HOUS PERSONAL ACTION. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT TEXTS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Law on Community Financing is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Public Road Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the National Assembly has confirmed the officially consolidated text of that Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on the Taking of Dangerous Goods is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Public Servants Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members present and 58 votes against one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Act on the provision of air navigation services is officially clarified. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 of whom voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Trade Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on communicable diseases shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on the public sector wage system is confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members present and 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. It's on man-loving matters. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider four proposals by the Judicial Council for the election to a judicial function and two proposals for the appointment of Supreme Court judges at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, proposals for decisions on the discharge of the President and two members of the State Audit Commission, a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, a motion for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia after the law on the prevention of corruption, a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint members of the Council of the Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, and a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate as Advocate General of the Court of the European Communities in Luxembourg. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. To this point I welcome Mr Bojan Breznik, the Secretary of the Council of Justice, who has joined us. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office in the courts, namely the District Courts and the District Court in the district court in Koper and Ljubljana, and two District Judges in the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Mate Štros to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Andre Barage to the judicial seat of the District Judge at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Damjan Orož to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Sebastián Potepan to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. (68 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) It notes that the proposed decision was adopted by the assembly. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice and to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Nina Betteto to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Marijana Debelak to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Election Commission, Dr Alexi Mužino, to discharge the duties of the President of the State Audit Commission of 30 June 2006. I give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, Mr Franco Sušnik, for the presentation of the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to say a few words in the next three points on behalf of the Election Commission. First of all, I would like to say that, following the adoption of these decisions, a mandate-holder commission will discharge the President and a member and a member of the State Audit Commission, the last from 30.5., the President from 30.6. and a member from today's meeting, will carry out all the necessary procedures. By this I mean the invitation to tender within 15 days of today, all with the aim of ensuring the smooth work of the State Audit Commission. We have faced the fact that, for personal reasons, the members of whose resignations we confirm today have expressed their wish to resign, and I propose that we confirm all three steps precisely for this reason, because the open door is open to us to carry out the procedure for appointing alternate members for the remainder of the term of office, which is a condition for the smooth work of the State Audit Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. I give the word "magic." Borutu Sajovic for presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS House of Members, we will abstain from voting on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and members of the State Audit Commission. Not because we would not be able to define ourselves until this, in the pronunciations, "personal decision" and that of most of the members of this commission. That the majority of the members of one's country should give way to such an important commission is what we are concerned about in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We ask ourselves, and we are afraid of where Slovenian surveillance is going. Is it more important than professionalism and its proper reward for political compatibility? Or to continue, perhaps we are more concerned with the likeness and peace of political authorities than with the money of Slovenian taxpayers? I understand the authorities that in the year before the elections they want as much peace and populism as possible with success, even though this will be expensive for Slovenian taxpayers or a lot of stick to the story as it would be necessary. Last year, as many as 497 audit applications were submitted and there were as many as 219 billion difficulties in collecting tax money. This information does not in itself need a comment, as they speak of the exceptional importance of this body. So in this story, we are concerned about what these personal, family, and scientific reasons are and about the working conditions that make these people give up. It can only be the basis for a personal decision to pay, as its reduction, following the systematic reforms of Minister Virant in individual cases, is much lower than that of the authorities of like and loyal State secretaries, which are politically compatible. Another important reason is that people can see what is going on with Kosovo, what happened at the Money Laundering Office, and what will happen sooner or later to the Court of Auditors, which, if you think, even allows some responsible people to engage in non-economic conduct and business, that we are not even talking about the Ombudsman. How should they personally feel when the minister, for example, publicly regrets the decision of this commission to buy operating tables, where it was the big money of Slovenian taxpayers, and instead of quietly respecting the decision of the audit committee and even apologizing to the public for the irrational conduct of the public, he comments in some way. Next. Their personal decision is still greatly influenced by rumors and the thinking that the finance minister wants this commission to avoid problems under the auspices of the finance ministry. Then he'll warn and oppose at least. Thus, the indirect political pressures and actions are zero, and they all indicate that, as Prešeren says, the time frame for auditors and Kranjci" - as far as supervision is concerned - "will not be clarified soon." Therefore, we understand individuals to depart in this story, but the authorities do not. There is also a very significant statement made by the current chairman of this commission, who says he wants to be replaced by someone who has not been politically exposed so far. We support this desire in the LDS House of Members, and we therefore abstain from voting for personal reasons, but we strongly demand and support all procedures to replace the derogations, if it is inevitable, to do so as quickly as possible. Of course, at least here we want adequately trained and politically independent experts. However, it is up to you Members, especially the ruling coalitions, to consider whether you have not already made quite a few decisions that seriously degrade the supervisory functions and force people to think about their services and the resulting derogations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. There are no other panellists, so I am closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Alexi Male's duties as President of the State Audit Commission of 30 June 2006. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Mag. Metko Cerar shall discharge the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission of 31 May 2006. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Cerar bullets are the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission of 31 May 2006. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Mag. France shall discharge the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. France Code of Duties of a Member of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Dr. Milanarzna Adamic, to discharge his duties as a member and to be appointed as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Mitjo Jacques for a period of four years. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Milan Arms Adamič's duties as a member and the appointment of mags. Mitje Žaklja as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 5. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the law on the prevention of corruption. The draft decision was tabled by the SDS Group of Members for consideration. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the anti-corruption law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 2. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the appointment of members of the Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. Does anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. Because nobody wants to discuss, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for decisions on the appointment of members of the Council of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, submitted to the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, a proposal for the election of a candidate for Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg, proposed three candidates for election to the General Advocate of the Assembly: Mr Mir Prek, Prof. Verico Trstenjak, Prof. Bošjan M. Zupančič. Between us, I welcome the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mr Divno Potočar, Secretary-General of the Office. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairpersons and the four Members elected by the national assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec - SDS, Rudolf Moge - LDS, Aurelio Juri - SD and Cyril Testen - NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. Candidates shall be listed in alphabetical order in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 195 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. It shall vote for one candidate and therefore the vote, which shall contain more than one number before the names of the candidates proposed, shall be void. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice, from which the Member's will is not clearly visible. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the proposed candidate from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the candidate will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. If none of the candidates gets the majority of the votes of all Members, we will hold a second round of elections. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are therefore moving on to the vote. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 7.25 p.m. and will last until 19.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in voting to meet again in room 217. We'll resume the session at 7.55 p.m. That interrupts the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the meeting, with the adjournment of the 31st item, this is the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 7 March 2006. 71 ballots were distributed, 71 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, and 70 votes were valid. The proposed candidates received the following number of votes: Mr Miro Prek - 16 votes, Dr. Verica Trstenjak - 49 votes, Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič - 5 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Verica Trstenjak was elected Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Nice greeting and thank you for participating!
