ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. I'm asking you to calm down again. The first round of local elections is over. The debates are no longer helpful. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Happy Hvauc and Mag. Janez Kramberger. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 38th item and representatives of the Judicial Council to the 40th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 13 October 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law amending the law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 20 October 2006. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He's not here.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the proposal to withdraw the agenda item. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the withdrawal proposal from the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 64 for them, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an amendment adopted. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 for them, against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 21st meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving to 39. At the end of the day - it is at the conclusion of the suspension of the mandate of the ambassadors of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 12 October 2006, Mr Rupar submitted a written statement denouncing the duties of a Member of the National Assembly. The derogation was examined by the Commission’s mandate-holder and reported in writing to the assembly. On the basis of the report of the Election Commission and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that, on 12 October 2006, Member Pavel Rupar made a declaration to resign from the function of a Member of the National Assembly and therefore, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, terminates the mandate of today. On the basis of this conclusion, I will ask the State Election Commission to determine which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Members and Members of Parliament, please take your seats. Thank you. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 25 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Below, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance, will answer the questions raised at the 17th, 19th and 20th meetings of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to the absence. Member of only Bevk and Mag. Tomaž Štabe, who has submitted two questions, will ask the other questions once all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may ask a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to this item, the following ministers are excused for today: Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, from 16.30 to 18.15 p.m., Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti, from 18:00 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Miran Potč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Mr Prime Minister, in the coming days of 3 October, it will be one year since your government has adopted a framework of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. When the program was adopted, great words were made and many promises were made. The main objective of development was to increase human well-being and quality of life, access to knowledge and health, social security, promotion of technological development, employment of young professionals in the economy, integration of the economy with science and beyond. All of this is to be achieved democratically by strengthening partnership and social dialogue, freedom of public expression and greater media pluralism. Therefore, we believe it is right to assess after a year whether promises are being made. For all the facts do not speak this in favour. Firstly, the state of use of European funds in nine months is still not favourable, as we have over 2 billion tolars more payments than we have from the European Union. Can we be optimistic in the budget for next year because these funds are almost doubled? We have great interest in investing in road and rail infrastructure. At the same time, we are lagging behind in the construction of the fifth railway corridor of the European Union, or at this meeting we will be adopting a guarantee law for the construction of these axles, but we are concerned that we have been lagging behind in the implementation of this project, so that we are left out of the way because of the interests of Austria and Italy. Two months ago, Mr President, you were optimistic about the state of the pension system. Do you still believe that accelerated economic growth can ensure that we meet the obligations we have from the system, even after the warnings of the European Commission? These are just a few cases, more in backing up to get your general assessment. What measures under the reform programme have been adopted and have you considered to be having a full impact, and which measures have not been implemented so far are the Government's intention to propose for the adoption of the National Assembly in the coming period? What are the fundamental obstacles in your opinion that the great promises to increase prosperity in Slovenia are being fulfilled differentiated and what will the government do to overcome these obstacles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the question, better said for the questions. One was announced, nine were placed. It will be very difficult to answer all these questions at this time. It is possible, however, because the fact is that everything that this government has promised is measurable and can be verified. However, it is very difficult to request data on the results for those areas where the changes are in progress. One such area is tax legislation, which is one of two difficult points or areas of reform. The law is in the second reading in this area, as envisaged, it is now on the agenda of this session and it is very difficult to talk about the effects of the laws that you are just considering. This is how we will evaluate these things when these measures have results in practice. This will certainly happen in this mandate and there will be nothing left behind. Those measures in this area, which were carried out last year, I am referring to the beginning of a reduction or the abolition of the tax on paid salaries, and they give results because of this increased employment in the economy. We also note greater economic growth, not only because of this measure, but also because of others, but also because of this measure, but because of the reduction of bureaucratic barriers to simplifying procedures for improving the business environment. After 4% of last year's economic growth, we had 5% economic growth, one of the highest in the last ten years, at the same time reached the convergence criteria for Slovenia's entry into the euro area and at the same time reached the lowest figures for unemployment in the history of Slovenia. It would be so hard to say there are no results. Are they differentiated or not? They are differentiated because where we are just taking action, the results cannot yet be achieved where they have already been adopted, and the results are positive. One year after the measures have been taken, we can talk about the fact that the measures, which were also legal and can be implemented today in practice, have a positive effect, and that, at this time, for harder supplies have been prepared regulatory frameworks that have largely passed through the government procedure, are partly in the national assembly, partly where the process has been completed by the government itself, recently adopted and implemented to the extent that they can begin to deliver concrete results. With this last point, I am thinking mainly of the resolution on national development projects, which we have also coordinated within the development partnership, which, in the first phase, has also received a very positive assessment from the President of your party and which, also because of the proposal made by your partner, which was finally adopted at government level, we did not send forward for consideration to the National Assembly, because it was also your opinion that there would be no added value here and we would lose much time. These measures, which are very concrete, will also accelerate the absorption of European funds. Slovenia is among the most successful among the new Member States, among the first three for one year when it comes to efficient consumption. Quoting numbers on Slovenia's net salary position in the middle of the year when projects are not completed can mislead in one direction or the other. This was the case last year, and at the end of last year, we ended up as the first or the second most successful. I am almost certain that this will be the case at the end of this year, when the balance is drawn up, because after we have inherited a very inefficient, fragmented, dual system of drawing European funds, we have corrected this and this results.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Prime Minister, let me just say that I have asked the questions exactly as I have announced them, and that there have been some reinforcements of the cases that must always be stated that the issue can be understood publicly and also for you. And the same goes for complementing your answer. You mentioned the resolution on national development programmes, it is right for me and our Group of Members to remain this government document. However, since these are important programmes that should be cross-cuttingly coordinated in the long term, I am particularly interested in: Is there an operational programme in the government for the implementation of each of these projects to be determined by the team, the carrier, the resources, the execution deadlines and the like in order to actually benefit from the European funds that represent 15% of the circus? Many represent a budget that is completely lacking and even more is a public-private partnership that is unlikely to have a full impact without programmes and projects. And another complementary answer. You mentioned successful trends in employment. Yes, it's partly true, but I don't think it's entirely true. I ask: Can we also be satisfied with the fact that we have already a year and more circus 9% of the unemployed than the existing structure of those with higher and higher education? So the people we've been educating, who could also contribute most to our development through your tax reform. That's probably not a positive achievement. And there is also a need for differentiation in the employment of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you for that supplementary question. Indeed, all the measures covered by the resolution have an implementation plan and a programme, including a timetable for further steps, was adopted at the same time as this resolution. Each action will be given to its custodian or each project will receive its custodian, and the procedures through which these projects will be monitored are also specified. The government's development service has this as one of its main tasks for the future. And all these measures will be coordinated, it is said, to know who is responsible, who is monitoring, who controls and where the funds will come from. The Law on Public-Private Partnership is in procedure. On this basis, it will also be possible to realise the part of the financing resulting from this source. As far as the structure of the unemployed is concerned, you're partly right. There are too many people who have higher and higher education and are unemployed. By amending tax legislation and by some other measures, especially with this first, we create the conditions under which employers will be paid to recruit those with more knowledge, with higher education, because they are mostly absent so far because these personnel have been most taxed or are still the most taxed at this point. I therefore expect you to support the government's proposals to relieve the most productive layers and make them more interesting, more competitive in the battle for employment. The taxes on salaries and income paid so far have been, or are still, until we change this, two measures that have gone explicitly in this segment against paying employers to hire people with a high education. We're changing that now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There are probably some reasons why it would be right for the National Assembly to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister in accordance with paragraph 246 of Article 246. One such reason was expressed in the end, an understanding of what tax legislation entails. In decommissioning the economy, I say that very little or nothing, because the gross salary that an individual will accept will be changed, but a larger or smaller income tax will go to the individual's expense, not to the company's benefit. However, as regards the reduction of the tax on paid wages, it is indeed in the company's interest, but it is not part of the tax reform when we made that decision earlier. One more thing seems important to me and I could use a general debate. This is the fact that, on behalf of the government, you have completely justified many times that the success of the reform depends on the support that this reform is experiencing or not. What is happening with the reform in the government itself would probably be a time to assess, since the five main actors of this reform have been changed, replaced in the last week, not in the composition of the development world that you have appointed, but are other people. And we're probably all wondering if that means any changes in the concept, in the reform goal, etc. Second. When we assessed public opinion, climate of support or non-support between June and September, we found that the result is in fact very similar, not to say almost the same. In June, reforms in the global area were supported by 33 September 31 and opposed by 41% in June, 42% in September. It is said that the effects of the inclusion of the broadest circle of citizens and citizens in support of the reform have not yet been achieved, and perhaps the debate on this in the National Assembly could help. This is why, Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that the State Assembly conducts the debate in response and I propose that we vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The following question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Your Honors are here! Our country of Slovenia is being enchanted. Regardless of the comments you have made in your previous reply, Mr Prime Minister, that Europe regards us as one of those countries that best shows it, but as one of those countries whose economic indicators indicate an increase, the fact that Slovenia will, unfortunately, become an even more expensive country for our citizens and our citizens under your government. To prove this and to avoid arguing, I quote you the budget line of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008, where you and your government with the Finance Minister plan to raise the basic tax, value added tax, raise both the lower and the lower limit. At the same time, allow me to quote also a part of the text resulting from your acts, the acts signed by this Government and which it always has signed, whether at the time of the presentation of the budget or at the time of the introduction of the VAT law to the National Assembly, Mr Minister of Finance rejects. You indicate that VAT will rise, a lower rate from 8.5% to 9 and a standard rate from 20% to 21%. You also correctly calculated how much this impact will have on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and let me point out from this point that tax revenues will be collected from citizens and citizens, whether in a natural or legal person, by 4.9% in 2008 and that non-tax revenues will be raised by only 3.6%, i.e. those who assess the government's ability to raise financial resources beyond fiscal revenues. From this title, Mr Prime Minister, you are probably aware that the structure between tax and non-tax revenues will continue to deteriorate in favour of tax revenues and that your government will, in more than 90 % of the public finances, live exclusively through taxes that burden our citizens and citizens. That is why I ask you, Mr President: Are your personal ambitions distorted by your abilities or are you only misleading the Slovenian public in the field of public finances, in the field of fiscal image, that is, taxes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you for asking. Let me just say a hundred more briefly that this government does not plan to raise value added tax. It has not proposed any such act, and we will achieve these burdens mainly by saving, by reducing public spending, additional resources from more created, by higher economic growth, we will save wherever possible, not least for the salaries of officials. I hope that the Constitutional Court will soon unlock the law that makes this possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. So, the Prime Minister is talking about economic growth, Mr President, then we should probably know that investments and economic growth do not go hand in hand in a given situation, but that economic growth follows investments with an annual, two-year and possibly three-year delay. In doing so, I would like to inform you that you have also destroyed or reduced the incentives to invest in this government. But please allow me, since I'm sorry that for the hundredth time, I think that's how you responded, you still don't understand the point. From your act, the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia shows that revenue from value added tax in 2007 will amount to 2 billion 800 and increase in 2008 to 3.1, which means an increase. And this increase comes from an increase in value added tax. Allow me, however, if you wish, and I believe that this is what all of Slovenia would want, believe your words and ask for a simple answer. Why, then, did Members of the ruling majority not accept the amendment of the Slovenian National Party which, at this time, abolished the value added tax increase in the parliamentary procedure? Then why did your Members oppose this amendment? The parliamentary procedure is quite clear. I believe that it is known to all 90 Members and Members of Parliament, and I believe or I wish it were you. But, Mr President, you speak one thing, your Members work another. And what your Members are doing is actually what the government will write in the draft budget. The draft budget clearly states, for any person who has the Internet to increase income from value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you for that additional question. Based on misquoted figures from the budget documents, that is the only thing that matters. The possibility of a government increasing value added tax, I think by 15%, exists in budgetary legislation for many years. This possibility was not legalized by this government, but by the previous government. This, of course, does not mean that such an increase is planned. There is a possibility, I don't know, five, six years in law and this government has proposed it. This government has not proposed any specific act on which it could be concluded that this tax will be raised, nor do I see any point in arguing whether this is planned or not, because we will all see this before the voters who elected you go back to the elections for the Maribor State Assembly, whether this tax will rise or not. So I really don't know why so much talk about what I should or shouldn't say. For once, the government does not plan to do so, but if it does, I am sure that this will be widely observed, more than in 2000, when the LDS government raised the value added tax by 1%, and this was practically not written anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate, Mr. Pache? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Your Honors are here! This time I'm talking to you and you, Mr. President. I would like the National Assembly to hold a broader debate, especially on the basis of confusing responses. In the first part, the Prime Minister replied that the value added tax would not be increased. In the second supplementary reply, the Prime Minister already allows for an option. If the debate were to continue, we would probably see that the Prime Minister would agree on an act that he, as Prime Minister, adopted at a government meeting and forwarded to the National Assembly, which is an increase in the budget line in the 7040 value added tax. From this place, I should be allowed to index 43, which represents the ratio of 2008-2006 111.9%, which means 11.9%, an increase, in other words a accurately harmonised increase in value added tax at a lower and higher rate. However, from this city, Mr Janša, I am very pleased to present to you, at least from this city, the parliamentary city, a acquaintance. But I'm not happy because you're actually abandoning this town. But not to speak exclusively of local policy; I believe that value added tax, and I know that, will have a negative impact, an increase in this tax, not only on the city of Maribor, but on our country as a whole. And allow when you talk about economic growth and "kid" with it, once again, economic growth follows investment and this investment or investment relief has been reduced by this National Assembly on your proposal, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From this title comes my fear that in the future it will not be as you predict. And as far as the election is concerned. Leave this decision to the electorate and the electorate. Thank you. I therefore ask for a discussion in the context of the reply given by the Prime Minister to the question put by the Member State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Cwickl will put the next question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dear citizens and citizens, dear young guests, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President! After two years of your government, Mr Janša, I ask you how pleased you are with the work of your ministers, especially in respect of the laws and the priorities of the coalition. Disobedience, violation of laws, duality and deception are fundamental features of your coalition. Allow me a few cases. First time. Days ago, Minister Virant was found to have broken the law, that he could have built you a glass palace for 2.4 billion tolars without permission. This was determined by the budgetary inspection. If you wish a glass palace, you will come to the National Assembly for permission. However, non-compliance with the laws continues. Legally disputed procedures are built on the Hill. The new representative office of the Republic of Slovenia was purchased in Brussels by secret procedure, as if we were buying new tanks, not office meetings. Another time. They are breaking the law with Minister Bajuk when they have allocated an additional 50 billion dollars in the budget, which do not exist at all. You don't have the authority to raise the VAT, you split the money. And not only did you invent these additional 50 billion VAT revenues, on 3 October you said for TV Slovenia: "Since Slovenia exists, for the first time we will pay citizens lower taxes, all of them. At the same time, companies will be less burdened." That's the wrong statement. You're deceiving me, Mr. Janša! The facts are different. Since Slovenia exists, the economy has been most taxed. And this year, according to your data, 45% of GDP will be spent on public finances. Taxation is higher than in 2004 for an entire percentage or 70 billion. Not every quarter of 10 tolars, every other tolar goes to the country. Third time. In contrast to health legislation, Minister Bručan has reduced the scope of an additional healthcare programme by almost 3 billion, less money will be paid for heart surgery, treatment of cancer patients, employment of additional nurses, magnetic resonance. Mr Janša, how pleased are you with your work and the work of ministers if laws are not respected and if, as we have already heard today, he deceives and acts double-crossingly? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you so much for asking. It would be unusual for the government coalition and the opposition to have the same opinion on how ministers work. The opposition has always felt that it was better, and that is why it is also competing in elections for a different result than it has achieved in those to whom the opposition has become, and I understand this pain and have no problems in this regard. The other is about specific data. The fact is that this government has inherited tax legislation that actually burdens not only the business and the economy but also individuals, especially those that are more productive, and that we are now correcting this situation. In this session, you have this legislation in a second reading. If adopted, it will have the effect that both citizens and citizens in that country and economic operators will pay substantially lower taxes than they were paid during the reign of the Liberal Democracy. The tax on paid salaries, introduced by the Liberal Democrats, will be abolished in its entirety. The amount is paid for the year of this tax over 100 billion dollars, which in itself represents a very large burden. I would not list any further, for we have no problem with these measures and in our own words, because they are all verifiable. We are confident that measures will have such effects, and this will be verified, and we know who the judge is in the end, as far as legality is concerned. There are institutions in this country that determine whether or not a person has committed a violation of the law, both legally and definitively. Just to say that ministers are breaking the law is normal for a certain part of the opposition, but that does not mean that it is true. When it comes to political responsibility, there are institutes that you use, it's an interpolation. If the opposition considers that the minister has violated the law or the constitution, they may intercede. You've put two more in, eight more you've predicted. The government will be happy to answer that question and prove that the findings are not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	I'm not happy with the answer. Mr Janša simply did not respond. Above all, I think it is normal for you to think that the government does not respect laws or that you are by your own interpretive law. Black on white, the budget inspection confirmed that the law on public finances, which requires a new purpose last year, was broken, not that something was paid for last year. Another time. How can offices in Brussels be purchased contrary to the law on public procurement on secret procedure? How can Mr. Bručan propose to take the money away from patients? How can Minister Bajuk inflate the budget and vote on the phone for the Finance Committee? Regarding your claim that all citizens will pay lower taxes, you are misleading. Allow me on a specific case to make you understand. A single woman named Metka lives in a rented wardrobe with a school-bound child and earns 120 000, 500 euros. With tax reform, you're actually going to give 800 tolars, 3 euros, but you've abolished 6% of tax reliefs, 7,200 tolars, 30 euros. You'll give her 3 euros and you'll take 30 euros. You're still saying everyone's gonna be better? Like the Bullet, there are 104 thousand who benefited last year from the housing relief that we abolish under this law. The amendment was rejected on the parent’s working body. You don't have the money for the gift you gave, which is why you do everything you do, so you will raise VAT, excise duty, a more taxed economy. This will reduce real income for over 800 000 people. This is a duplicity, Mr. President. How will you stop doing this and ensure the legality of the government? Thank you. I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Talking about increasing taxes on the economy and raising VAT is permissible, allowed, but I do not see any great productivity in this repetition. As I said before, if you don't believe what we're saying, it'll be possible to check in a year. The laws you have on the table have been proposed by this government and are going in a different direction. We do not propose raising VAT and substantially reduce taxes both for the economy and for citizens, substantially, for the first time in the history of this Slovenian country. You can't deny it. The case you have made up is a classic case where social and economic mixes or tax legislation and social. To help those who are below the poverty line and those who are below the poverty threshold in Slovenia, compared to European countries, it is below average. Slovenia has below 11% of people living below the poverty line. This is still high, our goal is that these are simply not, but, compared to other European countries, even significantly more developed, this statistics are favourable. To help this, the government will finalize social policy measures but will not mix economic and social measures. If this gets mixed up, then in the end, there's a balance sheet. Where it leads, we've seen it on our own. As far as the 50 billion that we don't have. This information is simply fictional, but it is not an ingenuity that this government inherited a hole of 70 billion tolars, which were spent and distributed and which had to be subsequently provided. This was hidden in the balance sheet that your government left to ours, and that too had to be remedied in these two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Mr. Chairman! I ask that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, we hold a debate on Mr Janš's inadequate response. This is mainly because he has not answered my question. He did not say how he would prevent the illegal activity of ministers. For you, Mr President, it is obvious that ministers are unauthorizedly building glass palaces, buying offices for meetings as new tanks and also new tanks, or as they are called, are in conflict with the law or disputed procedures that prevent the legal protection of tenderers when they inflate tax revenues, this is a perfectly normal situation for you. We must also hold this debate in the National Assembly to discuss what we can do to make sure that people are not at a disadvantage. It is a matter of a fairer distribution of prosperity, not in the way you said it. This is not an imaginary case; it is a very specific 104 000 tax returns from 2005. This is the basis of economic growth this year, increased housing. Of course, that's a relief. And what will be the result? The result is what's already going on. For Mr Bručan, the budget says that his programme is falling radically because it had to be framed into spending limits. Therefore, Mr President, it will now happen that not everyone will be, but only every third person will have the opportunity to reach an additional programme of operations or some activities in health care. We need to discuss this in the National Assembly. If we hold such a debate, if the National Assembly exercises control over the government's work, then we can prevent illegal action. On this basis, perhaps if we hold such a debate, if you support Members and Members of Parliament, we can ensure that this government acts legally, that economic operators too understand this as a framework for their operation. For example, we will prevent Blatnik from taking over seven times the size of the company just because it was visited by Mr Janša and Mr Vizjak. We will prevent the Blatnik case from just passing the takeover law and abuse the rights of small shareholders, Mr Janša, because of what you are doing. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I propose that you support the procedural decision to hold a debate on the inadequate response of the Prime Minister and, on this basis, we also make an appropriate conclusion on the laws that we will adopt in this week and next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you. On the proposal by Commissioner Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Prime Minister the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, ministers! A few days ago, Slovenia received a response from the European Commission concerning the application, with which journalist Financi Boštjan Usenik applied to Slovenia, on suspicion of unlawful aid to Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško in the case of the sale of KAD and SOD shares in Mercator. With it, the European Commission rejected any indication of alleged damage to state property resulting from the non-transparent sale of KAD and SOD shares to Mercator. The alleged damage to the hair claimed by former ministers of Rope, Lahovnik, and Squirrel ranged between 20 billion and 30 billion Slovenian tolars. As of September last year, the debate on injury has soared and abused that 39 Members have decided, cut off this unproductive and harmful media accounting for Slovenia and submitted an application for the establishment of an investigative commission on 18 October last year. On the basis of the investigation of the cases, the European Commission found that no State aid was granted to the buyers because Mercator’s shares were evaluated by the relevant institution, on the basis of the established methodology and on the basis of the market price at that time. The European Commission also concluded that the acquisition premium did not require a condition because the purchaser did not manage the company after the purchase. The European Commission's decision is no surprise and has confirmed what we have always advocated that the sale of KAD and SOD shares in Mercator was carried out in accordance with domestic law and European standards. Critics have also suddenly shuddered. Again, critics of some of the most visible opposition Members, particularly those of the Liberal Democracy, have no legal and professional basis, and have only subordinated their activities to baseless, slanderous performances and intimidation of the public and to the artificial creation of affairs by which citizens have fled and, above all, provided themselves with an enormous amount of media space. I wonder: How does the government accept the report of the European Commission? Perhaps you have received an apology for the damage caused and the discrediting of the state, the government, and you personally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you, too, for that question. The government did not deal directly with this case until it was forced to answer the Members of Parliament's questions and until proceedings were initiated before the European Commission. Then it was a case that was echoing and also involved the government. Thus, I can say that we are satisfied with the European Commission's decision. Here I have before me a magnetogram of Members of Mr Rope, Mr Cwickel and Mr Lahovnik, who claimed that the government, although I repeat, did not deal with this case, damaged taxpayers for 30, some of them said even 60 billion tolars, and that this will certainly prove in the proceedings before the European Commission. These were statements made during the time of the questions sent. The fact is that this has not proved to be the opposite, and the fact is that it does not respect the basic definition of a political culture, that in such cases people apologize for the accusations that were unjustifiable. Because you asked that, we haven't been able to wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you. This concludes the questions raised to the Prime Minister. With regard to apologies for the absence of ministers, two more comments, namely the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, mag. Janez Drobnič will be absent from 7 p.m. and Mr. Minister for Education and Sport Dr. Milan Zver will be absent from 16.30 to 18.15 p.m. We continue to ask questions. At the 17th, 19th and 20th meetings of the National Assembly are Members of the Villa Trofenik, Christian Janc, mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Ambassador Maria Possonec, asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dimitri Rupl and Minister of Finance of Andrej Bajuk. Since the Minister and the Minister were not present at the meetings, the Member and the Member requested an oral reply at the next meeting of the assembly, so I give the floor first to the ministers and ministers to answer the questions. Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will therefore answer the question of Willi Trophynik on the consequences that sugar sector reform in the EU will have for the sugar factory Ormož. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you for the question, honourable Member, Mr Trofenik. It is known that the adopted reform of sugar for sugar beet growers and for the sugar factory in Ormoz constitutes strict conditions of competition. At this point, we are in the phase of searching for options either for the continuation of sugar production, or for the search for an appropriate alternative production. According to the latest information I received this morning, there is a maximum chance that the sugar factory will be restructured in the production of bioethanol, which we have been working on all the time at the time of the adoption of the reform and even after it. Your question concerns the amount of quotas. Let me say that Slovenia has received 52,973 tonnes of sugar. Ormož can also produce 19,000 tonnes of white sugar from raw cane sugar. If sugar production is discontinued, the quotas may be abolished only partially if the factory continues production with reduced capacity and combines production with bioethanol. The quota cannot be sold if the termination fails. You asked about the negotiating points, who gave them to me when I defended Slovenia's position. In the process of adopting the reform, Slovenia's negotiating points set a national assembly of 18.11.2005, a reduction in sugar prices and resulting sugar beet prices of up to 30% would be acceptable for Slovenia. Given that the reform was adopted at 36%, I did not support this reform in Brussels. With regard to the coalition that opposed the reform, there is only an explanation. For a long time, a coalition of 13 countries worked, including Slovenia, which opposed the adoption of such a drastic reform, but on the last night in the negotiations the coalition collapsed, two major countries voted in favour of reform and our efforts failed. And the last question is, how are we going to help 2,300 pesos farmers? That is the farthest question to be asked. Sugar beet growers will benefit from a regional payment of EUR 332 per hectare and a sugar supplement of EUR 300 per hectare in 2007, EUR 365 per hectare in 2008 and EUR 397 per hectare in 2009, whether or not they will continue to produce the beet in 2007 to EUR 151,000 per hectare, EUR 167,000 per hectare in 2008 and EUR 174.960 per hectare in 2009 respectively. If sugar beet production is discontinued, farmers will also be entitled to aid for diversification, to create new jobs, EUR 109 per tonne of sugar, and owners of agricultural machinery up to 10% of the funds that the sugar producer receives from the restructuring fund. That's about 1 billion tolars. I think the next seven years are short-term for farmers. At that time, however, they will be restructured in line with the production of the sugar factory, which shows that it will be restructured into bioethanol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr. Trofenik, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the members of the government, especially to the Minister. After five months, I finally received the honor of receiving your oral response. I note that, since July, when you wanted to eliminate me with a written reply, today's oral response has nevertheless made some progress and these two answers are not identical. Since I am not satisfied, Madam Minister, I ask you for an additional explanation. I would like to ask you for an explanation of the agreement on the closure of the factory, or this year, which is supposed to be the last campaign you and the owners made before the meeting of the company on 22 June. What are the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and whether or not they constitute unlawful State aid? Furthermore, I would ask you what part of the prison compensation, which is expected to be around €38 million, will be allocated by the owners to the costs of the prison, in particular for ecological recovery, which you have not said anything about, and is the fact that it is undervalued. Furthermore, whether you have decided definitively on the closure and what your position is to a foreign investor who is willing to maintain production without any financial obligation of the State, because he claims that the production of the beet still yields EUR 100 per tonne of profits and sugar production from cane and EUR 80 per tonne. Can I have some more explanation, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please. Mr. Trofenik, please turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	As far as the agreement is concerned, there was no agreement. The government has adopted a decision to support the owners' efforts to restructure production into bioethanol. And that we will help them to acquire European funds because they will be earmarked for this purpose. On the basis of our interview with farmers, we agreed that if it continues to produce sugar and with the production of sugar beet, only 10% will be required by farmers in this marketing year for the unamorted part of the machinery they purchased for this purpose. What I said. On environmental issues, they are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and at that time it was decided that this would be about 10% of the funds allocated for environmental recovery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? You're not finished yet, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	Excuse me. The question was, it was probably about selling the factory to Austrian potential buyers. It is true that I interviewed three potential buyers, two from Austria, the last from Italy. I must say that here I could have played some coordination between owners and potential buyers, but I was not involved in the specific discussions that the owners and potential buyers had, and I cannot talk about these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Dear Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response to my questions, as this is a serious economic and social problem for the eastern part of Slovenia, where at least 150 workers will be affected, where agriculture will be affected and the ecological situation will deteriorate significantly. I hereby base this proposal on the following. Firstly, I note that the Minister does not respond in the same way as the Prime Minister, because the Minister denies the existence of an agreement. The existence of the agreement was confirmed by the Prime Minister and adopted before 22 June, this being the case on the day of the meeting of the shareholders assembly, and before 30 June this year when Regulation 968/2006 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, which defines the detailed conditions for recovery, in particular in an ecological sense. That is why I am asking because this is very serious, especially because the Minister and Prime Minister are not yet in line and there is a risk of unlawful state aid in terms of covering the losses planned this year, although the market situation is far from loss and creates profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Trofenik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. I now ask the Minister to answer the question of Kristian Janca on the payment of aid to farmers under the measures of the European agricultural policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you for asking. The European acquis provides that funds shall be paid from 1 December of the current year and until 30 June of the following year. The Agency for Agricultural Markets, Rural Development and the Ministry of Agriculture will also follow these deadlines. As regards the subsidy base, however, the law in this part is amended to make it more favourable for those beneficiaries of subsidies which will receive payments in the first half of 2007, provided that this law is, of course, adopted in the agreed form of a coalition. However, as regards EU standards, the following explanation is made. In 2004, 25,000 claims were submitted to a total of EUR 15 billion 608 million. However, payments have already received 16,103 beneficiaries of EUR 10 billion 980 million. We are still looking for funds for 8900 beneficiaries, amounting to 4.7 billion tolars. In 2005, 26,000 claims totalling EUR 9 billion 814 million were submitted for standards. These will be paid in 2007, which is in line with the deadlines laid down by the rules of the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to answer Marie Possonec's question regarding the construction of the bridge on Mura near Hotiz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, in response to Mrs Posonchev, whose absence I regret, I would say the following. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, has always advocated that the bridge over Mura be built as a joint project between Slovenia and Croatia. This would be in line with respect for the situation on 25 June 1991, and such a solution was supported by the local population from both sides of the Mura on several occasions, as well as by our Foreign Policy Committee. Our website has repeatedly proposed to build a bridge together, but Croatia has not accepted this proposal, but has failed to take it into account or to escape it. At the same time, Croatia, contrary to its commitment to respect the situation on 25.6.1991, unilaterally built the bridge over the Mura, and there is no doubt about it, of course, there was much reporting and much controversy. In addition to the bridge, Croatia voluntarily and without the consent of Slovenia also built a connecting road to the small border crossing of Hotiz - Sv. Martin na Mura, who has increased the flood threat of the settlement near Mura and therefore has harmful consequences for the Slovenian state area. Our Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has repeatedly referred to it, lastly on 3 July - I stress several times, and lastly on 3 July this year it protested unilateral interventions by the Republic of Croatia in the area between the settlement of Hotiz and the river Mura. Croatia’s behaviour is contrary to the obligation to respect the situation on 25.6. At the same time, such Croatian conduct is contrary to the provisions, the Treaty between the Government of our country and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of water economic relations and the provisions of the agreement between Slovenia and Croatia on border traffic and cooperation, so-called SOBS. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs insists on the request, so we still feel the same way that the Croatian side must provide the competent Slovenian authorities with all the necessary documentation regarding the construction of the bridge and the road, and we are working to find an appropriate agreement solution that will address the negative consequences of the new bridge and road in the Slovenian state area. Our ministry also reiterates that, within the framework of its competences - we have diplomatic resources - and in cooperation with other competent Slovenian authorities will continue to respond to all attempts to exercise Croatian jurisdiction in the undisputed state territory of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you. The answer follows from Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bajuk, to the question of mag. Milana M. Szvikla on the preparation of the 2007 budget balance and the 2008 budget under the new tax legislation. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to reiterate that the deficits of the state budget in 2007 and 2008 are 77.3 billion sieves or 1% of GDP and 73.5 billion tolars or 0.9% of GDP, and the government does not intend to deviate from this. Despite the fact that, as an alternative in 2007, the government examined raising VAT rates in 2007, when we introduced the first rate of elimination of the pay tax, or 20% of what is already being done this year, we found that there is no need to raise VAT when the 2007 projections are being revised. In a similar way, we will explore all options to avoid an increase in VAT rates in the revision of the 2008 estimates. However, we believe that, and I have said this several times here in this National Assembly, we believe that this will not happen, as the government will also neutralize the projected lower tax burden by also saving and implementing the new legislation; it has been partly adopted, but is partly in preparation and will be dealt with in this National Assembly in a short time. We believe that the erroneous assessment of the increase in deficits to 110 billion sits is based on a miscalculation of the arithmetic account, which does not take into account the 2006 reality assessment and the 2007 revenue planning. The estimated implementation of tax revenues for 2006 - 22.6% of GDP, which is the basis for the 2007 and 2008 revenue planning, is 0.8 GDP higher than the 2006 budget adopted, when 21.8%. The 2007 and 2008 revenue plans also need to take account of the following facts. The estimated revenue shortfall of 38 billion tolls is intended by the government to replace the increase in excise duties on electricity, tobacco and alcohol in accordance with European directives and no longer above the minimum, increased recovery of tax debt and other non-tax revenues. I would then like to point out that the higher estimated excise duties on motor fuels in 2007 are the result not only of raising excise duties per litre of fuel and of increasing the quantity of fuel sold compared to the planned, mainly diesel fuel, which is already a fact in 2006. As a result of the changes in the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons, which means the decommissioning of enterprises, the elimination of double taxation and the simplification of taxation, the financial impact of the changes will only occur in the implementation of the budget in 2008, as it is estimated for the 2007 levies tax bill, which will actually be known in the first half of 2008, at an estimated level of 20 billion tolars, which of course means an additional economic burden. As I said in the introduction, the budget deficit is declining. Accordingly, the so-called global deficit. At the time of the previous government, the global deficit in 2000 represented 3.9% of GDP, in 2001 4.3; then 2.5; then 2.8; and in 2004 2.3% of GDP. In the first year of this government mandate 2005, this deficit amounted to 1.4% of GDP. As we have already reported to this national assembly and to the European Commission recently, we expect that this global deficit of the whole country, as demonstrated by the ESA 95 methodology, will in no way exceed 1.7% in the current year 2006. Therefore, the annual average of the country's deficit in this broad range is 1.55% of GDP in this mandate, representing only 49% of the 2000-2004 annual average of 3.16% of GDP. Once again, I would like to stress that the draft budget for the next two years preserves macroeconomic stability, which is important for the period when we introduce the euro, and the priorities of the government are also clearly presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have now heard from the Minister of Finance, who spoke differently than the Prime Minister. He was talking about three sources, he was talking about spending on energy, both on gas and electricity, he was talking about debt recovery, and he was talking about other non-tax revenue. However, he did not say what is most crucial in our view; most importantly, the increased taxation of the economy, effective taxation, the effective tax rate for the economy increased significantly in 2006 compared to 2004. This continues, Mr Minister, in 2007 and, to a lesser extent, in 2008. In 2008, however, you have a 12% VAT rate, each year since we introduced VAT, the VAT increases by about 5% to 6% every year, in 2008 alone, by 12%; and therefore I say that you will have to increase your excise duty very much or, as you yourself have said several times, so some here, in this National Assembly, had to go with 21% and 9% of VAT. The problem that we see less in this state budget is that during your revenues you have calculated VAT as if it were a rate of 21% and as if it were a level of 9%. However, you do not have this mandate in any law accompanying the budget, so this budget is illegally invested. And then how do you finance this non-reality with high taxes, the closed budget? So within the programmes, within the individual programs you take health care, you take culture, you take foreign investment, you take technology agency, you take money from it all, and then you say it's a developmental budget. Please, if you'll explain more [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that the legal basis for a possible increase, if necessary, but we do not think it will be, was used last year when this National Assembly adopted the 2006 and 2007 budget. At the time when we introduced the first stage or the first part of the elimination of the tax on paid wages, we also said that if necessary, we might have to raise the VAT. The fact is that today or tomorrow, when you start reading the second reading of tax legislation and then the draft budget, there is no VAT increase foreseen in 2007. But it is true that we have included, because it is actually impossible because we are working on the basis of a future that has not yet happened. On this basis, we know that certain legislation on expenditure has already been adopted, another is in preparation and will soon be under consideration in this national assembly and it is very difficult to predict to what extent it will be adopted and how it will be implemented. It is also true that economic growth is slightly greater than envisaged in the analyses carried out by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, that the data concerning the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the past years are also slightly different from those announced. The fact is also that the tax administration is slightly more efficient in terms of tax recovery than it has been so far. On the other hand, I would also like to reiterate that it is crucial that we have before us that the 2008 draft budget does indeed foresee that such an increase may take place, but we do not propose it in the ZIPro itself. Why don't we suggest it? Since the VAT law provided for the possibility for the government to propose this from the outset, it will also be stated in the ZIPRO that the government can propose to the national assembly. This National Assembly, if necessary when we are working on the 2008 balance, will have the opportunity to discuss this matter again. For now, we are confident that such a VAT increase, as stated in the 2008 draft budget, will not take place, nor will it take place in 2007. But it's no news. In the past, something like this has happened, at least we know about one case, and that's how much it's gone up. [[...]] [[warning sign for end - incomprehensible]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	I would suggest that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on the Minister's response. Mr Minister simply mentions some completely wrong facts here. The situation between 2006 and 2008 is very different. In 2006, Mr. Minister, you will spend 640 billion VAT revenues in the state budget, and in 2007, if there was no VAT change, only 710, 715 billion, and you have inflated this revenue to 760 billion. Therefore, we say that you have unduly divided 50 billion between your expenses or that you simply have a hole that is larger than the one confirmed or shown by the data. Therefore, we say that it is not right that it is illegal - in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on Public Finance, all laws should be in the national assembly when the 2008 budget is adopted, not amending the budget, and the 2008 budget will be adopted in November. And, of course, you don't have this authority at ZIPRO. That's why, Mr. Secretary, it's pure fiction. You just made up that 50 billion because it was necessary to split the money for some purposes or to show a slightly better situation than it is. That is why I propose to Members and Members that we discuss this in this National Assembly, that we look at what is happening on these individual items, and that, of course, we invite the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, to either reduce the revenue side in the 2008 supplementary draft budget and show a larger budget deficit, or, of course, reduce the expenditure side. Only in this way will the left and right sides show the real picture. Now we have no real picture, we have a miscalculation of numbers in public finances and just as I asked the Prime Minister, Mr Bajuk, Mr Janš and Mr Bajuk have divided what they do not have, the power to raise VAT has not yet been given by the State Assembly, so it is not possible to count on 760 billion revenues from this title, but on an increase to 710 billion dollars. That's what I think is clear to everyone except our minister. This is why this is a serious discussion, this is a budgetary discussion, because only in this discussion will we see whether the final result will be a much greater debt, but not that everything seems to be okay now, and in a few years' time a large account will be put out for the bad functioning of this government. I therefore propose a general debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	No president, no minister of finance, they don't share anything. That's up to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Please, be quiet! Mr. Squeakl, you were the first to exceed your authority or abuse your rules of procedure because you were defaming, although you know that the Minister at this stage cannot and must not respond to the evidence you have re-set. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President or the Minister of Finance to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Procedural proposal. How could he be at this stage? I have already mentioned your procedural proposal and we will take it into account and we will vote on it. Here you go. I want to know what the content will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Mr President, my procedural proposal is very simple, after I have finished, the Minister took the floor. I suggest you give the Minister a reminder because he took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you. We are moving on to the first round of new issues for Members and Members. Dr. Slavko Gaber will ask a question from the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, at the time of the adoption of the law on higher education in June, you have been in this Chamber and several times on the Committee on Higher Education and Science to students and students, as well as to Members and Members of Parliament, ensuring that there will be no need to pay tuition for the second stage of the study in Bologna. Moreover, in fact, you made a move that we all welcomed in anticipation that you would also provide funds for this, you said that the first and second stages of the study would be free. In the same law, you have written down a solution to the level of education that today requires everyone to have at least a five-year university study, and thus achieves an equivalent level of education to the four-year study. Everything could be fine by now. What I am interested in is: How is it possible that, after you have declared all this and put it into law, you said the following to the committee a few months later, more precisely on 18 October. "It is certainly not that everything, the entire university sphere, should now move to a second Bologna level and must be made for this, or the conditions for the transition from the first to the second Bologna level should be approximately such that, according to our estimates, the ratio should be approximately 1:3, and in this respect we want to move this population to finance what is nationalally meaningful." I'm sorry, I read a literal tape of the tape. You have informed people, at least for the time being, on the Committee, that you intend to finance only one quarter of the students and students in the second stage of Bologna, this is in clear contradiction with what you said a few months earlier; and the funds provided in the budget are also clearly too low to fulfil your commitment under the law, and also to fulfil the commitment you have under Article 68 of the current Higher Education Financing Regulation. So how do you respond to the problem that we have with funding, especially with adequate funding, of higher education in this country?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In fact, there is no problem because, honourable Members, you have mixed two things, one is funding, the other is level two; the other is how much entry is. And we're going to finance everything that's going to be listed at the second level, that's a principle question. On the other hand, for higher education, the budget of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology for this year is 56.7 billion tolars or 236 million, which is 7 and a half percent higher than in 2006. Taking into account the budgetary courts where inflation was estimated at 2.1%. This represents a real growth of 5.3% in 2007 compared to the 2008 reality assessment. In 2008, 61.2 billion dollars or 255 million euros are planned for higher education, 8% more than in 2007, taking into account budgetary courts, when inflation was estimated at 2.1, means real growth by 5.8% compared to 2007. I would like to point out that, as of 2007, there is a substantial increase in funds on the item [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on the investment item for higher education, as funds are projected for this purpose in 2007 4 billion dollars or 18 and a half million euros, which is 59% growth; therefore, on investments we anticipate a 59% growth compared to the 2006 implementation estimate. [[...]] In 2008, additional funds from the Structural Funds and our contribution amounting to €3 billion are foreseen, which then totals about 56% of the growth, again 56% of the growth, I apologize for 69% of the growth. In the first year there was 59% growth in investments and in the second year there was 69% growth in investments, because it is precisely due to Bologna programmes that we have to make a whole series of improvements to existing infrastructure, which has been neglected for years, especially in the field of science and technology. As for the entries, however, in the next two years, as we are talking about entering the second level of the Bologna, there will be no larger enrollment to be expected in the next two years, and these will be more interesting for graduates of the previous higher education programmes and for candidates who wish to retrain. And only when they graduate from the first-degree study programmes will this entry be expected to increase, because, as I have already said, in the second stage, we want to have stricter conditions, these numbers are appropriate, but, of course, this is a matter of universities and also a policy of what the government wants in its education structure. If we now examine how many assumptions there are because we have these assumptions made, then for 2007 it is foreseen for the first year of the second rate of 536 cities and for the second year 110 cities, totaling 646 cities and we have 303 million tolars. In 2008, 1,000 students and 400 students are prescribed for the first year, for which we have 658 million sitts available, and the funds are, of course, co-financing will be provided under the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Mr. Minister, let me ask you once again to make it clear to everyone. In this House you said that you would pay students and students both levels of study, on the Committee you said you would pay only a quarter of those who will study first, including the next level of study. You probably do not need to read your words again. I therefore ask you to make it clear to everyone in this Slovenia. Is it true that you intend to go to the second stage of the study - and even talk about the first taking three years - less people than you study there today, everyone else will have to pay for it. I hope I'm asking you clearly enough. Of course, you may say that this may be a government policy, but I warn you, you have already spoken differently in this House; I hope that you have not been broken by the so-called "Paulette syndrome". And the second part of that same question. So you claim that you have - although it would be very good to start off by not presenting all the data here, including those that no one has asked you about - that you have the formula that tells you exactly how much funding you need to provide for the functioning of higher education in this country is enough money. The universities have informed you that you are missing 900 million tolars for 2007 and a billion 700 million tolars for 2008. Are you saying they don't know how to count, or are you kidding? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	As for the first, it was clear that we would pay for all those who would be enrolled, such as the present law. For all those who will be entered in the second stage, the State has paid at a given time. That is the answer, and we have not changed that answer. We never changed that answer without me knowing that at any time I would say that we would not pay for those who would be enrolled as regular students. That's perfectly clear. However, as far as this is concerned, universities are, of course, still missing more money, but what they have, in accordance with the regulation and have more, is even a 2.6% real increase as required by the regulation when we recalculated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate, Mr. Gaber? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Mr President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because obviously matter is quite difficult, I propose that we discuss this more precisely. I do not believe this, and I would like to explain my proposal that it is possible for the university to be disturbed by the simple conversion resulting from the provisions of Article 68 of the Higher Education Financing Regulation, which makes it very clear that every year the budget for higher education should be increased by less than 2.5% per annum for gross domestic product growth and never, even if there were zero growth. I hope it doesn't turn out to be the Minister and not the university this time. And it seems more appropriate for the National Assembly to discuss what the Minister is now explaining to us. When we asked him months ago whether the state would pay those people who would be enrolled in the second stage of Bologna, and we also asked him whether he would pay those who would meet the conditions for this entry. If he now explains to us that he had in mind that he would let only a quarter of all the students go there, but I myself pointed out that he had said that he would literally "and such will be according to our estimates 1:3", that is, one out of four will enter there, then this is worth discussing before this national assembly, rather rather than a demonstration, a student once again on the road. For if it were to occur, if it was to be a deception, anyone who takes five minutes to think will have to support them because there is too much seduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Gabra to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of the delegation will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Today I am particularly interested in connections, communications, first of all information and further, in the second round of transport. Then I'll ask the Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas, why the resolution on national projects resulted in half of the fourth development axis along the Idrüce valley across Idria to the Logatco motorway. Now for the Internet and greater accessibility to modern information technologies. In the 21st century, without the Internet and without information technologies, it is virtually impossible to represent life, let alone further development. This applies both to urban and rural areas, and this is particularly true for rural development in the broadest sense of the word. Access to the Internet and modern technologies is crucial for the development of tourism, crafts, small economies and agriculture. These technologies are also important for maintaining rural population. Ten years ago, when I was mayor in Idrija, we used to place classic telephones in the farthest village and village. If we look at where technology has gone, then we see that today we are in a situation like 15 or 20 years ago with regard to the availability of fixed telephony in the countryside. According to the Statistics Office for the first quarter of 2006, the Internet uses 54% of households and more than 900,000 users between the ages of 10 and 74. Compared to 2005, an increase of 6% was observed. Wireless internet is today possible with WiMAX technology, which is significantly cheaper and even more suitable for rural areas compared to UMTS. With WiMAX users would have access to the Internet and services such as internet telephony, internet television, video on request. Given that we are behind the WiMAX technology, I am interested, Minister Vizjak: What will be the coverage of Slovenia with the Internet, when will modern information technologies be more accessible in the countryside? I'm also wondering what you're going to do to get free internet in the country. Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. Dear Members and Members! The answer to this question is in government decisions adopted under the resolution on national projects and where we have identified an important document - and this is the national broadband network for the period 2007-2013. The Government wants to make it possible for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or, to the greatest extent possible, for residents to equalise the conditions for access to information for the population, as well as for businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. To this end, we want to launch a project with local communities that will facilitate access to the Internet and modern information technologies through the construction of local open networks, the project will take place throughout Slovenia, the municipalities will build local open networks, which will be accessible to all service providers and will also allow all competitors equal access to end-users. The project will mainly be financed from private funds with the assistance of municipalities, and the state will finance the construction of those parts of open networks that will prove impossible to build under commercial conditions. The objectives of the project, both short-term and long-term, will stimulate the development of different services, increase the efficiency of public institutions and economies. We want to allow faster access to knowledge and, of course, also enable the development of entrepreneurship with high added value in less developed regions of Slovenia. In short, this idea, the idea has been implemented in important government documents, we have also reported it in the context of the financing of projects of the following financial perspective and we will support those projects that are commercially feasible under commercial conditions by means of European Structural Funds, as well as from the resources of the State budget, with all operators having an opportunity to run on these calls equally. I must also say that, both at the Ministry of the Economy and the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in the past year, we have done a great deal to open up the market in this area in order to ensure a greater degree of competition, so I must say that some of the findings have been exceeded on the issue that is based on the assumption that Telekom has always and always a monopolistic position. I believe that the important measures taken by the Agency as a regulatory body in line with electronic communications are aimed at strengthening the market in this area and, last but not least, at increasing the level of quality services for users. Last but not least, recent calls in the UMTS area have also shown this, and we have also introduced competition where there has been no competition so far, as only one concession has been awarded so far, and we now have three concessions in this area from three competing operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In August, the Ministry of Economy issued a call for public e-courses with wireless access. The aim was to provide access to the world's Internet to fully interested domestic users and foreign visitors in rural areas in Slovenia. The Ministry co-financed this project with 120 million tolars and after three years the operator will be able to charge the use of the e-point. 64 e-points have been selected in Slovenia, which is why I am interested in this invitation to tender, it has also been stated that after the three-year period, the operator can charge up to 400 tolls per hour for access to students, students and the unemployed, which is relatively large if we calculate 5 hours per day, five days per week, thus totaling about 40,000 tolars and it can happen that this 64 e-point technology will be installed in the countryside, but will not be used, since after three years such a high price, astronomical 40,000 tolars, will certainly deter such young students, students and unemployed people from using this internet. So I want to know: Where did this price of 400 tolars per hour for Internet services come from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. If I'm not mistaken, you've read it correctly, that's as much as possible. This price is not set, but a limit is set, which is now obviously calculated at this point in time, let's say optimal. However, we are talking about what will happen in three years' time, and we are talking about the fact that e-points are now being financed by public funds to bring them to life, that access to the Internet is being made possible by a very wide range of users and that this is actually happening. And I believe that even after the business of these e-points will be slightly more subject to the commercial moment, the commercial moment will be such as to ensure the economic viability of consumption. It is said that the service and price will have to be competitive with others, and it will be significantly easier to compete because not all installation costs will be charged, as this is financed by the State. So I am sure that the price after this period will also be such as to ensure that those most targeted are used. And that's why I don't want the situation that you're making so that this network doesn't serve its purpose later. I am sure that, and I am also sure that the price over this period will be what is allowed under these conditions, because a ceiling is set to allow the widest groups of people and thus access to information and to the Internet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Since there's no minister, I'm asking, do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, welcome, as well as ministers! In the media in early October 2006, we were able to read that due to the lack of interest of historians and history professors, a seminar entitled Units in Victory was dropped. From the first multilateral elections to the international recognition of Slovenia, organized jointly by the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, with the participation of the Association of History Teachers, the Institute for Education, the Museum of Recent History, the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia and the Association of Veterans of the North. There were only 8 historians, and professors of history from more than 650 Slovenian schools were invited. Slovenia celebrates the 15th anniversary of independence this year, and this historic step is certainly the foundation on which we should build our identity. There are not many countries in the world that have thus achieved the dream of generations and have achieved a country of their own with relatively small victims. Some still fight for it. In fear of losing ourselves in a globalised world, we may not be taking the right steps to place this unique event in Slovenian history. I don't know if she'd be disappointed with history teachers who didn't attend the seminar or with school principals who might not have been sent to the seminar. This is certainly a topic that should be known not only by teachers, but also by journalists and others who are responsible for public information, and that conduct, according to its official duty, should be passed on to younger generations and the general public. That the seminar had dropped out, it made me sad in the first place. I can't accept the fact that we don't realize ourselves or we don't want to be aware of the uniqueness of the moment in which we live. Children in schools learn about important and crucial events in the history of Slovenia, Europe and the world. Is not one of the key events for Slovenia and the foundation on which we should build, the independence of Slovenia. I'm sure one day they'll be learning about these events. About the events when Slovenia was preparing for independence and took all necessary measures to live as a single country. But how many generations of schooling will end without getting basic information about these events or just getting to know each other. I am one of the younger Members, but I remember very well that at the day of the Republic and the day of JLA in the former country, soldiers, fighters visited us in schools and told us about the events they witnessed. On every occasion, we also had a celebration where we recited and sang songs with patriotic content. I am aware that it takes some time for these contents to be written into textbooks, although I believe that it has been enough years for them to be able to do so. I ask the Minister: How many hours or days in our kindergartens, primary and secondary schools are dedicated to the memory of the independent events, and how many pages and chapters in the textbooks are dedicated to these events?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva, is it sufficient for the Minister to answer you in writing? Okay, you'll get a written answer. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Secretary! Pomurje is the area of Slovenia where the most comassations are carried out. The administrative unit in Murska Sobota, the Department of Agriculture, the comassation procedures lead to quality and up-to-date, and the delays unfortunately arise at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a second-degree body where complaints are also resolved for years. As an example, I can cite the appeal procedure in the Bukovnica Commission, where it has been resolved for about five years, despite the fact that, under Article 72, it is envisaged that complaints must be resolved within one year. In order to make matters worse, it is important to point out that the state of newly distributed land of the entire comassation has not yet been entered into the land book and the cadastral domain until the individual complaint is concluded, which also prevents legal traffic with all the land of the process and the formal exercise of ownership rights and all other rights in this regard. This example is just one example, similar in many other villages, such as the Adriatic, the Hodos, the Shalovci, the Upper Petrovci, the Dankovci, the Vaneci, the Moščanci, and Bogojini. That means it's a rough estimate of over a thousand owners only in Pomour. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to answer the following questions: How many complaints are pending at your ministry as a body at the second level of unresolved complaints in the procedures of commissions? What is the average time to resolve an individual complaint? What are the reasons for the significant backlogs in these proceedings, and what will you do as a minister and the most responsible person to ensure that Article 72 is respected and that these complaints will be resolved within a period shorter than one year in order to reduce the backlog in the resolution of these complaints as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you for that question. It is true that there are 150 complaints in the area of commissions, of which 15 are against decisions issued by the administrative unit Murska Sobota, concerning the areas of commissions of the Adriatic [[4 complaints]] , Gornji Petrovci [[1 complaint]] , Dankovci [[1 complaint]] , Cycling [[5 complaints]] , Mosquitoes [[4 complaints]] , and as you mentioned the Booklet [[4 outstanding complaints]] . Why is there a longer period of time to resolve these complaints? In most cases, an agreed solution must be reached because there are no available land in the areas of commotion; these are distributed and the complainants most often require the same land from the comassation fund as they have made it. In these cases, it is necessary to agree with the Agricultural Land Fund or to find some suitable land nearby, which can then be offered in the event of a positive settlement of the complaint to the complainant. We have formed certain groups of people who will resolve all these complaints in the administrative unit Murska Sobota by the new year of this year at the end of December. We hired outside associates and our lawyers in the house. With regard to the resolution of complaints at our Ministry, it is necessary to clarify that 5,594 complaints were resolved in 2006, of which 3892 in the field of agency decisions and 1,709 in the other areas. Let me explain that there have been 3,109 complaints in the last five months. Despite the fact that we are dealing with quite an up-to-date situation, there are so many new complaints that we always have a shortage of workers here, lawyers who are solving these cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. So, I am pleased with your announcement that things will be settled by the new year, and of course all the affected ones who eagerly expect this to happen, but at the same time, in my behaviour, the problems arise because there are no adequate staff allocated to the Ministry, which would primarily deal with this issue. For for a very long time, as far as I was informed, there was no lawyer who would really solve these matters; and for that reason, I believe that it is not only a hindrance to seek an appropriate agreement and a negotiated solution, but also because the ministry did not approach this issue because of the staffing shortage. Now I'm wondering if these reasons, which means they're human resources, have been eliminated. I have heard that you have also engaged external aid, and more importantly, whether this is a permanent solution, that there will not be similar congestions in the future, because such long periods are really not acceptable, even more so as I have already said in the introduction, because this is not only about those in the specific complaint, but about the entire area of the Commission. So, if I sum up, I wonder if now, after the new year, the situation will improve, you have a human resources projection set up, can we expect such congestion again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	In these procedures, a geodet is urgently needed because there is a need to solve professional matters in addition to a lawyer. Although we had surveyors inside the house who came from geodetic administrations to our sectors, they did not keep working on these tasks. I simply decided that two surveyors and one lawyer would continue to work on these tasks or these complaints, and we hope that this matter will be resolved on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri will ask the Minister of Defence questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. In early September, information was sent to the Defence Committee, information on the organisation, an informal meeting of the Defence Ministers of NATO in Portorož, which took place from 28 to 30 September at the Bernardin Congress Centre. We were then informed of the short introduction, the reasons and significance for hosting the meeting, we were informed about the organisation of the meeting, the cooperation between the Secretariat of NATO and the Republic of Slovenia as host country, including the number of participants and the programme. We have not been informed, however, that the Government of the Bernardin Congress Centre would make this opportunity an area of particular importance. Given that Slovenia, as a full member of NATO, will also host such events in the future, I ask: Mr. Minister, on the basis of which it has established the laws and when did the Government of the Bernardin Congress Centre declare the area of special importance, and what measures has it prescribed for the protection of the area, and when have these measures begun to take place? And why was the intention of declaring the area of particular importance - what happened for the first time, as far as I know in Slovenia - not informed about the National Assembly or the Defence Committee? By the way, if this is the case and if the answer proves that this announcement has also been carried out in accordance with our legislation, I would like to commend you for the good organisation of the reception at which we also participated in the members of the Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Let me say that the Bernardin Congress Centre, during the informal meeting of the Defence Ministers of the Union of NATO, was not declared an area of particular importance for defence and also security measures in this regard were not implemented as an area of particular importance for defence, but certain measures have indeed been implemented in accordance with the legislation in force. Let me say that the organisation preparations and implementation of the meeting have been carried out in accordance with established practice in our country, as they are for the second most important international meetings, and we have particularly respected the standards and requirements of NATO. Let me say that the Government has appointed an interdepartmental working group for the organisation and preparation of the session, which has conducted all the coordination and all the preparations, including in the security field. Let me say that in addition to the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces, representatives of the police, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency and the Directorate for Protection and Rescue also participated in this inter-ministerial group. From the point of view of military cooperation in the implementation of security measures, a specific plan has been drawn up, in accordance with Article 29 of the Defence Act, which provides that, in addition to facilities of particular importance for defence, military use plans may also identify other facilities and offices of State-level authorities as sites of security importance. Their protection, including airspace over these facilities, the coast and the associated waters from these facilities, shall also be carried out by the military, but in accordance with the plans and following the prior approval of the Government. On this basis, the specific Regulation establishing facilities of particular importance for defence and their protection measures, which, as such, provide for the headquarters of the General Staff, Operations Command and other Command, and for their protection, has also been taken into account. Let me say that, in accordance with the so-called Ottawa Convention or the North Atlantic Treaty Agreement, the status of military commanders is also recognised in Slovenia by the NATO Command, under which it is worth noting that in addition to the Secretary-General of Portorož, a delegation of NATO's international and NATO military headquarters, a delegation of both strategic commanders and a delegation of the President of NATO's Military Committee have also cooperated with his General Secretariat. It was therefore necessary, in accordance with Article 102 of the Defence Act and the Agreement with the International Secretariat of the Union of NATO, which concluded on 12.1.2006, which defined all the standards and requirements for the implementation of this meeting in Bernardino. We also had to form a documentation centre according to NATO standards and our Ministry, which was competent, had to provide appropriate technical, security and other measures for the operation of the Centre and Communications, and all the measures provided for in the rules on the protection of classified data were also taken into account. Let me say that, on the basis of security conditions, appropriate plans have been drawn up to define the security measures taken by the police in the areas of airports, seas, traffic safety and the route of travel of delegations. The police also ensured the implementation of tasks in the wider field in terms of transport safety. Let me say that the Slovenian Armed Forces carried out measures in accordance with the powers it has under the Defence Act and, as I have already said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the preparation and planned security measures, the tasks of the services, the structures of the forces at the meeting on 21.9.2006 and has therefore confirmed the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which have been planned in accordance with the law. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yuri, would you like an additional explanation for your question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Yes, so I'll give the minister a chance to complete the preparation story. But I also expect an answer, why was the Defence Committee not informed about these measures, which provided for the role of the army in protecting them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Excuse me. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you for this additional question, because I will now be able to complete this answer by the end, because the matter is quite complicated. Let me say that these measures were implemented from 27.9.2006 from midnight to 29.9.2006 to 24 hours, and relevant notifications were also issued to the public as well as to airspace users and so on. Let me say that all these measures and activities have been planned only as a matter of urgency, and I can confirm this by participating in these meetings. I must say that, abroad, these restrictions are even greater than we anticipated, but we also referred to a previous security assessment that was low. Let me say, as you have already found in the introduction, we have informed the Defence Committee about the information, but we have not actually informed the Committee more about the operational plans for the implementation of the various security measures. Let me say that this was not a practice for sending operational plans for the implementation of various security measures to the National Assembly at other important international events, so that this was not a practice. However, I must say that we have also connected with the local community to organise this meeting and have tried to carry out this meeting as little as possible. I think that this location is also quite appropriate because it is not so populated with the civilian population, there are only two private houses in this part and we have not previously agreed on what the regime should be at the time of the informal meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Minister of Transport will be asked a question by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Just for a little while. I would like to know from the Minister: When will train schedules be more user-friendly? Because now it looks like this: one train down, the other train up, and here you're waiting 40 minutes, there's 20. So I do not think that this is economically economic in terms of passengers and it might be possible to improve the situation a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, welcome! Thank you for your word. In short, the question has been specifically asked about the train ride on the Murska Sobota-Ljubljana route, and I will also answer on this occasion, so Murska Sobota is connected to Ljubljana by three direct pairs of trains, with the crime that is common in rail transport, even more. However, the objective of each timetable is to make connections as quickly and as comfortable as possible, and this is also linked to the state of the railway infrastructure. A greater quality jump on this route will take place after electrifying the railway between Prague and Hodoš stations. On average, rail ticket prices are 66% lower than bus fares, while rail travel is usually shorter than bus travel. The travel time of trains depends in particular on the condition of the railway infrastructure that condition the speed of trains and on the type and condition of transport capacity. Given that rail infrastructure is in poor condition and the average track quality index is actually lower each year, travel times do not change or increase significantly. The most resilient result of the track status is the number of slow driving introduced, which increases in line with the drop in the quality index each year. On 12.10.2006, the current condition of slow driving is more than seven calendar days, 86, at a total length of 112.386 metres. Slow driving causes delays in passenger and freight traffic, especially between Monday and Friday, when train traffic is the strongest. The timetable on Slovenian railways shall be drawn up for a timetable which shall enter into force on the second Sunday of December and shall apply until the second Saturday of December of the following year. The aforementioned timetable is the same in all railways in the region of Europe. As a rule, the timetable for passenger trains shall not change within the timetables, since for each parallel period the publication of a book publication of passengers on which the validity of a particular timetable is published shall be made public. The following criteria shall be taken into account in the production and validation of the timetable for driving periods. For the first time, the wishes and needs of passengers, local communities and other stakeholders are transmitted to the carrier or AŽP, then the technical characteristics of the route, the passing power of the route and the maximum speed, the number of means of transport available on a given route, the technical characteristics of the vehicles, the maximum speed and capacity, the traffic restrictions, the prohibition of the simultaneous arrival of trains to a particular place of transport and the economic eligibility of trains on a given route, the proposal or the order of train paths for a driving period, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the carrier of public railway agencies of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the intended migration of passengers. [[...]] To this end, the carrier conducts a survey every year on all passenger trains in the areas of the Slovenian Railways. In the survey, public passenger transport users on the railway have the opportunity to comment on the existing timetable and to propose changes to the current timetable. The comments and proposals of the transport users mentioned above shall also be taken into account in the preparation and validation of the timetable for the next driving period. On the question that was concrete when Slovenian trains would be more user-friendly, I can say that by raising the culture of both passengers and also the staff on the railways it will have to be as soon as possible or they would like it to be now. However, the quality of means of transport is known to be in a very poor condition. Slovenian railways have foreseen purchases for which contracts have already been concluded, some time ago for new wagons and also for new locomotives. This will also create better conditions for the comfort of passengers. So, I expect that the modernisation of the rail network, which we are starting with a special guarantee law that will come immediately after the holidays on the tables, will also mean an increase in quality, which will also be known in the standard of use of passengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Possoncheva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Not to be misunderstood, the staff is very well, so this is not about their relationship, but about the way they travel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	If I may comment further. The way you travel is about coordination of timetables, in some ways it is about as little waiting times as possible for passengers. Of course, as I mentioned, what is the process and procedure, it will certainly be necessary to regulate these ways further, because it is indeed unsustainable that almost a year, we can say, there are no changes that are urgently needed. That is why we will also give the Agency the initiative of the Ministry of Transport to approach a more dynamic adaptation of both timetables and some way of respecting the shortest possible deadlines and the shifts of passengers moving from one train to another.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I refer my question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Mag. Janez Petty Officer. We have repeatedly drawn attention to inadequate scholarship policy on the committees of the National Assembly as well as in plenary meetings. Mr Minister, you have repeatedly stressed your own efforts to increase the number of scholarships and improve the socio-economic situation of students. I wonder: Are you preparing new developments in this regard or in what direction will change take place? And my additional question: When can we expect changes in this area, Mr Minister, and if so, what will they be? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you so much for asking. First, some data on scholarships. We also presented this at a press conference that the number of scholarships has dropped in the last 15 years and the number of students and students has increased by more than 70%. This means that these trends have been wrong, and therefore there are urgent changes so that we have also decided with the students, with their representatives, to take a new path for a more successful and better scholarship policy in our country, because this is important, Slovenia will primarily build its competitiveness on knowledge. We are preparing a new law on scholarships, a system law in which we set some key objectives, namely to increase the number of scholarships, to slightly increase scholarships, to add incentives for disability for scholarships, i.e. to supplement deficits, career decisions, greater transparency, to slightly improve criteria for obtaining Zois scholarships; and, above all, we want to make the scholarships an interconnecting mechanism between the university and the economy. To allow employers to enter the scholarship schemes in a way that allows them to partially, in part, co-finance, thereby obtaining a scholarship, and to be able to practice, acquire practical knowledge and complement their theoretical knowledge acquired at the university. This link is also necessary in the context of the Bologna process, as there is no more traineeships, and it is also necessary that these skills are essential for the labour market in order to obtain them at the time of the study. In this regard, we are also planning new sources of funding, I mentioned - about 20% more scholarships should be provided in a shorter period, namely an increase from the 2007 budget, we propose an increase of about a billion tolars and then, of course, further. As employers will also enter the scholarship scheme, we expect an increase of about 10%, i.e. they would not want to burden employers, this must become a motivational element. Concerts from the student work are an additional source, then we estimated that between 700 and 800 million tolars could obtain additional funding for scholarships, then there was an additional amendment in the game, where we would also obtain more funds and also provide more scholarships. Last but not least, you could see that there is also a scholarship scheme in the project, development projects also funded by the EU, on the basis of which we would provide about 400 million tolars by 2010 and an additional one billion 200 tolars for scholarships each year each year. Thus, a substantial increase in funding, a substantial improvement in the scholarship system, and a more interesting regime for obtaining loans for education. We know that in the world, loans for education are very often used because they are favourable and represent, in some sense, the principle of minimum scholarships. Scholarships are supposed to be decided by social work centres. As you know, we have pledged that all social transfers are provided through one point, as social work centres, because the social work centre has, not entirely, all databases of other state institutions that store data that are crucial for the grant of scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. You want another no. [[...]] Thank you. Mrs Majda Shirca will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	Dear Minister! My question concerns achieving the objectives of cultural policy in the field of film. The national programme for culture requires raising production of Slovenian films. The film fund is responsible for the production of Slovenian films. The public fund was set up to make its decision, to make the program decision as autonomously as possible, and to prevent the ministry or even any party from directing which films to make and who can play and who can not. Since the existence of the film fund - and this is more than ten years - it has been relatively autonomous so far. Until your term of office or until the appointment of new members of the Supervisory Board of the Public Fund. New supervisors rejected the programme proposed last week by the expert committee, the board or director. Judging from the public responses, they did not like the film that was proposed, whether it had too many erotic scenes or they did not like the other film in which Magnifico was supposed to play, an excellent character already in the stereotype, because he was running on the list of Mr Zoran Jankovic and he was supposed to, according to his statements, finance the film. The program was rejected by or appointed by the members of the Supervisory Board proposed by you. And it's not just about rejecting movies and going to judgment for which the profession is responsible. It is also a rejection of the director of the film fund. After repeated night pressure, the board showed her the door, blocked the computer, the phone, without telling her why, and threw her out of work. Did she lose her mandate because she was working illegally because she wasn't defending a Slovenian film? As we know, no, she lost her mandate because she cared about the legality and public interest in cinema. I ask you, Minister: How will the film fund achieve an increase in production, autonomy, quality, quantity of productive and reproductive cinema if the country starts to determine what can be recorded and who can record or play? And if she sees people working domestically and not by law in the fund’s leading places. How do you feel about the possible or even obvious misuse of the Watch Tower Society’s Watch Tower Society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, the question raised by the Member State is not the same as I got it, but it is. Well, given what she asked, it won't be hard to answer. With regard to the programme content or programme to which the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board, which has dissolved the Director of the Film Fund, can only say that I am not officially informed, for reasons of substitution and with the view of the members of the Supervisory Board who have simply taken this decision which they have taken. Once I've been officially informed of all these matters that you're talking about, we'll act in accordance with the law as necessary. In the Supervisory Board, three members of the seven are appointed by the Ministry, and that is all. So when I'm officially informed about these matters, I'll also make decisions that I can make. Those decisions will be made in accordance with the law as prescribed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Of course, I have announced to you the question of achieving the objectives set out in the national programme on culture in the work that touches the film. And if you want, I can also draw attention to others, to me questionable procedures, especially the non-financing of those programmes that are within the national programme, is the real resolution as a strategic document, written and not implemented. I'm surprised they haven't officially notified you. As Minister, you are in charge of the public fund, and you should be particularly concerned about the situation when some discontinuity will arise in the field of film production, even in the context of your public statements so far and also in Parliament, that you support a particular Slovenian film when we liked it, at least until the moment we saw how it broke. That he broke down, well, minister, but he's dating back to when you were a minister too. If I'm not just talking about the film fund, I'm talking about your ministry, which has been drafting legislation, the amended legislation in the field of film. And right at the moment when the Audiovisual Institute or Film Institute Act was formed, as it is now called, the Minister, there was either the first or one of the more visible reprimands to the current director or the ban on expressing opinions on the law in question, for which nothing was asked. But the Supervisory Board, which you have appointed, has banned the position of a proposal that touches, not her, but the film in general. So I'm asking you how you're waiting for an official explanation when the pacts happened before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. So, as you know, last week or this week the lady was dismissed, and the Supervisory Board decided to inform her next week that she would adopt her report and also submit it to the Minister for information. I did not say that I was not informed in anything: Of course I was also informed and asked what it is now, but it is, it is completely unofficial, and when I officially get all these views written on paper, I will act in accordance with the law as prescribed. I express whether my concern is clear that, like any minister responsible for certain areas, I, if I am responsible for this, am clear that I am concerned if it has broken down in a film stock or programme, the film fund is autonomous and independent and has acted accordingly. So I don't see any particular problem in this. Like I said, when I'm informed, I will act in accordance with the powers I have.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	On the basis of the options given to me by the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we hold a debate on the Minister's response, especially in view of his expressed position not to see major problems or a particular problem with that within, for my opinion, a major problem. It would therefore be useful if this part of the cultural policy were to be turned around in the national assembly, at least Slovenia would have witnessed, given that the debates were not open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca's proposal will be discussed by the State Assembly at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to her question. This will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Miro Petek has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The problem of the Maribor airport has been dragging for many years. Four years ago, Prevent bought the Maribor Airport and according to our information until the signing of the new contract, that is 7.6.2006, the new company Aerodrome Maribor did not pay the State-owned airport infrastructure rent. I therefore wonder, Mr Minister: Was there any agreement that the State airport structure had been given to this company for free rent, and if it was not, why was it not paid the rent, and would the Ministry of Transport intend to recover it on a judicial basis? Next. The new contract between the State and the Maribor Airport was signed, as it was said, on 7 June this year and apparently bears the mark in confidence, since the municipality of Hoče-Slivnica does not have access to it where this airport lies. This municipality has a vital interest in this airport, especially since the Government has adopted a resolution on national development projects by 2023, as the ground logistics centre with special emphasis at the airport is envisaged in this area. Therefore, I ask the Minister what is such in this Treaty that neither the local community is available nor the public has been informed relatively cheaply about this contract. And what will happen if this company, owned by Preventa, does not pay the rent again and does not comply with the other obligations set out in this Treaty? Finally, Prevent bought a Maribor airport for 250 million tolars, today a mortgage of EUR 8.5 million, or more than two billion, has been recorded for the purpose of securing loans to this property. I ask the Minister what assurances the Ministry has that the Republic of Slovenia will have a real partner in Aerodrome Maribor that will be able to carry out a vision for the development of air transport in Slovenia and a vision for the development of the already mentioned Oreh project. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much for the question, Member. Regarding the question of how the story took place from the first step, since the purchase of the Maribor Airport d.o.o., which was owned by the municipality of Maribor, by a contract concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Maribor Airport, Maribor d.o.o., was actually released from the lease for a period of five years, which expired on 18 June 2005. This provision and contract were based on a contract on the free transfer of airport infrastructure at the public international airport in Maribor and some other questions concerning the airport concluded on 30 July 1998 by the Republic of Slovenia and the municipality of Maribor. The reason for the conclusion of this contract was the extremely low volume of air transport and the low revenues provided for in this Title, as well as the need for maintenance of the dear and the rules of the specific airport infrastructure. The purpose of the contract was to share the costs of operation and development of the airport between the municipality of Maribor and the Republic of Slovenia by ensuring that the business company Aerodrome Maribor used the infrastructure economically and provided airport services and that the Republic of Slovenia provided the necessary investments. Unfortunately, the airport Maribor did not provide transport, and the municipality of Maribor did not ensure that Maribor Airport would rationalise its business in all circumstances. At that time, I believe that the Republic of Slovenia has made all the investments that were meaningful and justified in view of the actual volume of traffic. All of this led to bankruptcy of the Maribor d.o.o. Aerodrome, as you yourself said, was sold to the company Prevention as a bankruptcy debtor. [[..]] This was also the reason that no payments were made under the 2000 contract. However, the Republic of Slovenia, by contract signed on 7 June 2006 with Maribor Airport d.o.o. owned by Preventa d.d., did not rent airport infrastructure free of charge. The Maribor airport must use 25% of the cash inflows from the airport services sold to a total of 83.316,118.22 sites for investment maintenance of airport infrastructure. If, at the end of this financial year or business year, the calculation also finds that Maribor Airport has not fully fulfilled its investment investment obligation, the difference between the Republic of Slovenia's open claim to Maribor Airport will become apparent. Therefore, I cannot give a final answer on any payments, because the financial year or financial year has not yet expired. On the second question, however, I must clarify that the Treaty is not secret and has no secret provisions. The preparation of the contract and the events surrounding the preparation of this contract were presented to the public several times, including at a press conference held at Maribor Airport on 10 March this year. That was where I personally presented my position on this issue. However, it is not customary for contracts to be copied or distributed. The contract is accessible in accordance with the provision laid down in the Act on Access to Public Information and would suggest that this route be used for viewing the contract. If Maribor Airport does not fulfil its contractual obligations, it will comply with the contractual provisions, which means that the Ministry of Transport will initiate appropriate recovery or cancellation procedures if such breaches of the contractual provisions are found. I am sure of this because, despite numerous public pressure, the government and the ministry have also fully insisted on the prescribed procedures in the preparation of this treaty. And then there's the third question. Since Maribor Airport did not provide adequate assurances in the negotiation process for the conclusion of the contract that it could be a long-term strategic partner in the operation and development of Maribor Airport, the contract was concluded for a period of two years, that is until 7 June 2008. During this time we want to check Maribor Airport as airport manager and business partner in the further development of the airport. With regard to the construction of the land logistics centre at Maribor Airport, I must say that we strongly support this initiative, but these are two separate issues. I can assure you that the objective of concluding a long-term contract on the operation and development of Maribor airport is only to involve itself in the development of the airport, even under the principles of public private partnership, and will be willing to invest its own resources in airport infrastructure and thus take on the business risks that are common in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, would you like some more? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings, distinguished Madam Minister and Ministers! My question concerns the work of veterinary inspection, the internal veterinary inspection, in particular the part that controls the procedures for animal protection. On this issue, I was encouraged by the case of Raven in Koroška, where there were five starving dogs living on 17 square meters of the apartment surface, and three dead dogs were found in the kitchen refrigerator. And when all this calvary lasted a number of years, as reported by the media, it is reported that it took a veterinary inspector several months to take away starving dogs. I also wonder: What are you going to do to make the veterinary inspection respond faster in such cases or to applications? I am well aware of the work of veterinary inspection, I know that ladies and gentlemen are quite burdened there, they have many responsible tasks, but I think that this area of animal protection should be given some more attention in order to have such extreme cases shed a bad light on the profession, which I believe is working well in the future less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you for that question. The Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia paid particular attention to animal protection in its work programme for 2005 and 2006. It provided for the number of regular checks for the control of compliance with the conditions for the rearing of animals for economic purposes, the responsibilities of the keepers of pet animals, animal testing, the operation of shelters for abandoned animals, specialised trades for the sale of animals and the transport of animals. In addition to these regular checks, the veterinary inspection responds to all complaints made by citizens concerning the suspicion of animal torture. What you said. In 2005, the internal veterinary inspection carried out 5,563 examinations with records, 494 decisions were issued and 124 criminal proceedings were instituted and four allegations were filed. In addition to the internal veterinary inspection, a special mobile team shall supervise the transport of animals, which shall review the fulfilment of the conditions of transport by 5% of all consignments of live animals going through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The team carried out 314 reviews and issued 151 sanctions. In 2006, the internal veterinary inspection carried out 2122 examinations of the records, 323 decisions were issued and 167 criminal proceedings were instituted and four allegations were made. It is estimated that the VUS or its internal veterinary inspection exercises effective control over the whole area of animal protection. The Ministry shall also pay particular attention to the protection of animals through the statutory annual veterinary checks carried out by the field veterinarians at the cost of the budget. If it is your claim that our inspectors have not responded to the call of the inhabitants, I will take action within my powers, and I will prepare regulations accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary-General. I must say, your answer was quite complete and exhaustive. This information has been able to be traced to the media, but I would like to know if you know what the response time is and how much time on average is between the application and the veterinary inspection. In particular, in order to determine whether veterinary inspectors are overloaded with other matters, this professional service in this area needs to be extended, strengthened, and additional employment may be needed here. Above all, I am interested, next month, in November and December, in a speech on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. It seems to me that in this amendment to the Animal Protection Act, more attention could also be paid to those animals that we take from the bride owners, and then the animals await 30 days of marriage in animal shelters at the expense of taxpayers at the sad end. I think that more attention should also be paid to this area, and all shelters and asylums should be stimulated in this sense, without their economic interest, that animals should be kept for 30 days and then killed, but on the contrary. To encourage them that by informing the public with free advertising they are rewarded for those animals which, of course, are timely and quickly broadcast to faithful, good owners. Between Slovenians and Slovenians, there are a whole bunch of people who have, most of them who love and dedicate themselves to animals, and we take them from asylums and shelters. All of them in this town also have sincere thanks. But when you think about going into the solution to the animal protection law, that we might be even more extensive, even more comprehensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Madam Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	I thank you for these initiatives. We will examine them and take them into account in further legal procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will ask a question from the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Education and Sport. The Minister for Education and Sport is absent. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I believe that the Minister of Culture will also answer my question in connection with the Minister of Education. The Maribor Agricultural Institute has been housed since its inception in a building on Vinarski Street 14. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, you know where it is and what building it is, given that there are only three such buildings in the world. In 1999, another government under the rule of another cultural minister named this facility an object as a cultural monument of national importance. We know there are several objects in this area that have been returned to the Roman Catholic Church. Immediately after the 2004 elections, people who work there are employed at the Maribor Agricultural Institute, as well as for very vague reasons, were transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport. And that's why my first question is addressed to you. What are these reasons that led you as minister, that it was your first move to transfer this facility to the Ministry of Education despite the fact that it was designated a cultural monument of national importance? The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport, Mrs Šverc, has recently, by her own free will and without the participation of the Maribor Agricultural Institute, in connection with the so-called needs of education, practically occupied employees. The employees and the Maribor Agricultural Institute were not provided with new premises and simply received a decision that they had to go on the road this week, but they would probably do their work on the road. But both you and probably your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture on your left, agree that the functioning of this institution in Maribor is still important. It is also a fact that an object is not suitable for inclusion in teaching purposes, at least too small and technically inappropriate. As I said at the beginning, it was always operated by the Maribor Agricultural Institute and so the facility was specified from within, it created a gas station, a refrigerator to store controlled samples according to ISO standards and other things. Please let me explain, unless it is a political reason that this government has already used in its mandate, how many times has it used to return something to someone, given that it is heard or seen that the facility is now being visited by those who represent the Škofia Gymnasium, what was this reason for transferring this facility from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. Dear Member, I will only be able to answer you with regard to my ministry, and of course what I know about this and the transfer of this building to the Ministry of Education. So, the fact that this school in Maribor in Vinarski 14 is, of course, an outstanding example of architecture, which was built for the needs of a fruit and wine school in the second half of the 19th century, there is no doubt about it. As you yourself have found, it was declared a cultural monument of national importance. The cultural monument is a social property with the right of access [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] is therefore owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia and carried out with them by the Ministry of Culture. [[..]] In order to maintain the implementation of educational activities in the building, since the school was built precisely for these needs of education, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by its decision, transferred the right of administration for real estate from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport. Therefore, the purpose was to be the same in order to carry out school activities, but of course with full respect for all the protection arrangements that are prescribed and still in force. It is a matter of continuing to be a school activity, but respecting all the standards required by the monumental protection profession. That's how much I know how to answer you. I thought Dr. Beast's colleague would be here, and maybe he could tell you more about the content himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you for speaking again, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for repeating what I told you. I think I'll hear something new. I asked you what are the reasons for the transfer of this facility from your Ministry of Education, you told me about the continuation of the educational process in this building, but if you would listen to me, I told you that since 1905, when this building was created, there was no separation of the teaching process, but the work of the Maribor Agricultural Association was carried out. And regardless, even if you claim that this building is suitable for the educational process, they will - what? - You guys on the road now? The government has not provided them with new premises. And of course, in the spirit of democracy, that he may also get the word of the Minister of Education, who, I hope, will tell me more than you have told me, because you have not told me anything except repeat what I have said myself. I would therefore like to ask if we can discuss this very important subject at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Given that the Minister of Education is not here, you want an answer and you request a discussion at the same time. The proposal by Mr Zagorec to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question on the matter, will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs the question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On 14 October 2006, the Directors of the Centres for Social Work of Slovenia were informed by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs of the planned reorganisation of social work centres, which should have been carried out by the end of this year. The aim of the transformation of centres is to improve the quality and effectiveness of work in preventing and eliminating social differences and problems of individuals, families and specific groups of the population. In Slovenia we have 72 centres for social work, which vary greatly in size and number of employees, from 6 to 90 people. Because of diversity, there are differences in the quality of the services offered, as the area of work is very wide. Following the proposal presented in Slovenia, 13 to 14 regional centres – Celje, Slovenj Gradec, Ljubljana, Ribnica, Novo mesto, Domžale, Postojna, Koper, Nova Gorica, Maribor, Ptuj, Kranj and Murska Sobota – are expected to be in the future. From where I come from, the social work centres Brežica, Krško and Sevnica are expected to be linked to Novo mesto by transferring certain activities to Novo Mesto, by developing regional social protection activities in relation to the needs of Posavje in the past years, and in this respect we were not bound to Dolenjska and the White Country. As of now, Posav employs the Regional Coordinator for the Treatment of Violence and the Regional Coordinator for the Implementation of Alternative Penalties. The first in Slovenia we had a safe house for victims of domestic violence in Posav, we have a crisis centre for children and minors and three years of experience with shelter for the homeless. Professionals are now connecting in Posavje with the prosecution, the police, the district court, the district employment unit, as all these services are organised within the Posavje region. How can users be given approximately the same accessibility if transport links, especially public transport, are extremely poor with the New City? Programmes were developed by individual centres according to the needs of users, in local communities according to the network of performers in local communities. Where it has ensured that programmes with the transition of the centre for social work in Posavje to the centre for social work in New Town will be implemented, as most of the programmes implemented in Posavje are not implemented in the New Town. For example, a group of treated alcoholics, a shelter for victims of violence, an old aid group, aid for illicit drugs, etc. Members of the intervention service, etc., will also face difficulties. In short, we are not against ourselves in Posavje, but we want Posavje to be carried out within the Posavje region. Dear Minister! I ask you: How does the Minister see rationalisation and improvements with the proposed reorganisation of the Centre for Social Work? Who and what will be gained by the proposed reorganisation, and given that professionals are already connected to a certain extent and that certain services are already organized regionally, how do you see it? [[...]] [[warning sign]] Or what else? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we are preparing the reorganisation of social work centres in accordance with the economic and social reforms adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the goal, namely to improve the quality and efficiency of work and to prevent the elimination of social pressures and the problems of individuals, families and specific groups of the population. Let me start by saying that we will not stop any of these existing centres, which will then become some kind of local centres, in terms of better network provision; there may be an additional point of entry. See, we have a very different picture in Slovenia, as you are stressing, and the situation regarding social work centres. However, how should the Centre for Social Work with six employees carry out, for example, approximately 100 social transfers, provide adoptions, divorces, custody, foster care, fight violence, family counselling in the event of a crisis, etc. In doing so, he carried out all the tasks: supporting, technical, such as the information basis, administrative and administrative technical services, not to mention the rest. This is now carried out by existing centres and they act as independent institutions with their director, secretary, etc. In such a way that sometimes there are only two or three professional colleagues at a social work centre, which does not provide an appropriate standard of service delivery. So once again, no one will be removed, but it is about setting up a regional, regional, independent, legal, personal, i.e. a person of public law, a public institution. In fact, this would make a lot of rationalisation. In fact, the government is obliged to appoint all 62 centres for social work, the saints as well as other partners, including the congregations and so forth. Then it is necessary to set up directors, and this is a story that takes a lot of work, and I don't think it's appropriate to organise centres. This regional scheme is therefore to be followed by a new one. This material is still in the stage of the proposal or the stage of production. We will follow it as it will, but in Slovenia we will choose the regions. Of course, in the light of these new additional tasks, we must approach the changes immediately. Given that we do not have regions as self-government communities, a possible leap from the state network of more rationalised public institutions to self-government-designed regional institutions is not such a big leap and it is possible to do so only by transferring administrative rights or governance, which I have already said would be relatively simple. The question about the congregations may well be of interest to you. Such a regional centre will, of course, have a sub-account for an individual municipality if it performs individual tasks. It will conclude contracts, of course, with the close cooperation of the one who will lead the local centre, so that the business will be transparent and the centre will respond to the needs of the local community as much as possible. So we want to maintain decentralisation. However, what was presented in the design was 13 or 14 centres, based on regional conferences that were somehow designed by the profession. The profession itself said that, so these social work centers themselves, which, according to the logic of these things, were connected. Why is the regional centre important? Not only in terms of organisational and technical and support functions, as I mentioned earlier, but also by transferring or providing a combination of those professional tasks requiring in-depth treatment of specialised professional teams or very rarely occurring at the level of a local centre, some adoptions or the like, it is very rare and therefore we also need greater specialisation and greater expertise. However, if necessary, professional workers will approach customers at this local center in their hours, not that people will go to headquarters. Otherwise all transfers, all simple advisory tasks will take place at this extreme point, at these 62 or possibly even more points. This is also in line with the reform objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, do you want more?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for the partial response you gave me. But I find it difficult to understand that there is no Posavia among 14 centers. Partly what holds, 60, but Posavius has three large congregations that remain undecided. And that there is no Posavia among these 14 centers, I find it difficult to understand. There may be a different professional argument, but unfortunately I can't accept it myself. I am sure, Mr Minister, and I want only to help you with this before we go into this matter, to the provinces, I am talking about 14 regions, that is probably a fact, politically also acceptable to the national assembly and to the government. And it would sooner be to break these parts, to beat them to the right, if I said a little bit in traffic, it would be unwise, to be foolish to do anger and fear among these workers in Posavje, and also in the New City. I recommend you wait a little while, and we'll have the provinces. And when we have the provinces, we will also certainly have one centre in the province of Posavia, which is already formal, I will say, confirmed so at least formally. And I'd say we don't do some kind of fear or bad will there when we don't have to. However, rationalisation will be one way or another when the landscapes are being repositioned, so I would ask for tolerance, for there is something else. 2008 - this will be tomorrow, when I believe that the provinces will also be established in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	We will take into account this design, in which a measure of consensus has actually been reached. However, if anything were to happen that is not in line with the procedure when regions arise, this can certainly change with a simple act if something like this happens. Because at the time of regional organisation, or provincial, as self-governance, we will also have a transfer of administrative functions at the same time. It now has a key function of the state in management and will later be necessary to transpose it with an act. But we can't wait because the transfer of scholarships, all the other transfers and some centres just aren't qualified for it. Many of these transfers, which we have recently set up, institutionalised, come to the centres and tell you that these professionals suffer enormously and must be multidisciplinary. I told you, about 100 transfers are different and counseling and also transferring additional tasks. This is how we must go, but we will also take into account this suggestion of yours regarding potential landscapes. I am prepared to hear that this design is as close or as possible to the landscape design. This is certainly because, if this happens, there will be a need for a certain adjustment, as some local centre may be able to manage others because of the landscape, which is not so difficult. However, see, already because of the demanding information technical standards that the database runs, that is also information technology, you need to have a repairman, you need a type and a center that has six employees to have a director. This is not possible in terms of governance, management, management. And I also understand the social work centres, the directors, that they're hard to follow, but otherwise they're returning to us in poorer quality of work and a worse attitude towards clients, which I don't want to say because they're doing their best.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. The question will be addressed to the Minister for Education and Sport. The Minister is not present, yet do you want to ask a question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Let me immediately say that I expect an oral reply from the absent Minister for Education and Sport at the next meeting of the National Assembly. A number of changes in school legislation have been made to the public in the last two years on the grounds that it increases either the autonomy of an individual teacher or teacher, or the autonomy of an individual school. Deregulation and decentralisation transfer decision-making from one centre to teaching providers, such as the selection of textbooks or the decision on level learning. Already in the current law on the organisation and financing of education and education, a special chapter is devoted to the autonomy of the school premises. This question was also the subject of a constitutional court's judgment, which is referred to in paragraph 72. According to the law, confessional activity in public schools and schools is not permitted. However, the fifth paragraph of Article 72 gives the Minister the right to "except on the proposal of the Director at the premises of a public kindergarten or school outside the school or outside the school period, the Minister may, if there are no other suitable places in the local community for such an activity." That is why I am interested in and ask the Minister: In how many and what public schools and for how long is such an exception allowed this school year? How did the number of public kindergartens and schools in which confessional activity is permitted range from 2000 to this school year? Does he check that there are really no other suitable places in the local community before the authorisation is granted, which is why confessional activities must be carried out at public school or public school? As I say, I expect the Minister to answer me orally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle will refer the question to the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of Public Administration! Recently, we have witnessed the bureaucratic behaviour of the Employment Service, which has conditioned the approval of the Republic's scholarships by attaching a decision on the deduction of income. However, the administrative authorities often require different evidence from the parties that they should obtain under the applicable legislation after official duty. It should also be pointed out that, in all administrative units, counsellors for customers who could, for example, take over the provision of these services instead of citizens. However, my question is this: In view of the direction of the government, as well as your ministry, the Ministry of Public Administration, which, by simplifying procedures, want to facilitate the operations of citizens with administrative authorities, and in view of the case previously raised in relation to the Employment and Republishment Office, I am interested in: What else does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and your Ministry of Public Administration intend to do to improve the exchange of information between public administrations and for a more friendly public administration in general? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. In fact, the government's work or programme on the development of public administration is based on the slogan "friendly and efficient public administration" or "directed public administration". And in this context, on the one hand, the setting of quality standards for public administration with customers; we are convinced that the administration must function as a friendly and efficient service for citizens and businesses. On the other hand, the so-called removal of administrative barriers, simplification of a whole series of procedures, has been simplified so far by close to 100 administrative procedures in various areas. On this particular case. It is also among the standards of customer transactions that the public administration authorities must not require the parties to submit certificates, certificates, copies and other evidence of the data already kept in official records. This is an essential principle, contained in paragraphs 66 and 139 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which they even say, irrespective of the provisions of other rules, of the sectoral rules. How is this in practice respected? I must say that we are very much in the past, and we are working very hard all the time to respect this principle, as well as other business standards, such as measuring user satisfaction and the like. On the one hand, by giving guidance to public authorities to alert them to infringements when these violations are detected. For administrative units, I can say with great certainty that they respect this standard. For administrative units, I almost never get the criticism to send a customer for a copy, a map copy, a copy from the land book, etc. What else are we doing? We're establishing the possibility of online viewing different databases. Virtually all relevant databases in the state administration are computerised. One of the last to be informed is the parent register, that is to say, the mother books of the books in which these data have been kept for centuries are translated into electronic form, all the other main bases are computerised, the central register of the population, the land book, the cadaster, etc. And public administrations are allowed to look at these bases online, as they are called, directly viewing, and in this way they access this data even more easily. The data show that these views are very large, only in the central register of the population last year was only from the pension and disability insurance office 80,000 views. And each of these cases was saved a trip to the client for a permanent residence certificate. Now in this particular case, the employment office was about putting the institution in a firm and rigid position. He worked under a rule which, after inertia, provides that the application for a grant should also be accompanied by an income decision, although the law on the general administrative procedure has long said, regardless of the provisions of the sectoral rules, it is necessary to do otherwise. As a result of this problem, we have detected the problem because a large number of taxpayers have not issued a grant decision or have not extended their scholarships, so these people have started turning to the tax administration. The tax administration, however, has communicated this problem to our ministry. We immediately responded, called the head of the employment agency, asked what was going on with the matter. The management of the institution has long stood in a solid rigid position, we are working by the rules, we are not interested in anything, we will require these income decisions, the roles that do not contain the income decisions are incomplete, and we cannot grant scholarships. According to the offices and according to the requirements, our employment agency turned over the board and on 19.10.2006, that is, a few days ago, sent a tax administration, to the tax office Murska Sobota requested data, for about a thousand applicants. On the same day, the Tax Office worked intensively, and on the same day it prepared this data and delivered it to the Employment Service. And this is also the case in other areas in Slovenia, so that applicants can get to these scholarships. I think this is an important opportunity to tell all public administrations that this is a principle in which the government is serious about insisting. No one shall have the right to send a citizen or any other party to another place for extracts, certificates and other evidence of data already kept in official records. Where they're still doing this, let's stop this practice. If in practice we encounter such violations, we will, of course, warn [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will ask a question from the Member of Parliament to the Minister for Culture. The minister's gone. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kobilar Lipica, which was approved on 14 July 2006, required the development of a programme for the protection and development of Kobilar Lipica, adopted by the Government on 13.4. This is exactly what I would like to ask the Minister: Why did you not respond to the drafting of the document itself so that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia would not be violated? The Civil Initiative points to the violation of the Constitution as well as the law on the protection of cultural heritage. Numerous articles are listed here, which also talk about it, as well as the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage warns that the government only works for the semi-private or semi-private interests of a golf course in Lipica. I myself have addressed a number of questions to the government, six, regarding this cultural pearl on Crassus. The promises were made that the horse academy would also be established there, and to this day the government has not given nor has anything moved. All that's written is a letter of intent and a promise from the government. Of course, when some people can do just about anything, even violate constitutional standards, my mission is to ask, not just the Minister of Culture, whose property is this cultural pearl, including the entire government: Why are you so insolently violating all the provisions and using those laws that are passed here by voting? If what's going to happen in Lipica happens, Lipica will become a freak. It will no longer be what it serves, the cultural heritage of Lipice will be neglected and the fact is that people do not oppose golf, but not in this area, not in this way, not with such aggressive interference into space as the government intends to do. Only because a political February, as well as a prime minister who likes to play golf, will be able to meet his needs there. Of course that's not right. Golf should be done in those areas within Lipica that are not in the protected area. I expect from the government and from the minister, of course at the next meeting, a clear answer, to which I will also be able to ask the question: Why are you in such a non-chalant violation in essence? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] All the laws, including the Constitution? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. Then you want an oral response from the Minister of Culture, at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u155	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! In the countryside, there are many computers that serve personal use, education for young people, and also new jobs, as the information industry does not burden the environment, while at the same time a few miles away from the city does not mean anything on the world’s web. Currently, these few ten kilometres mean that a large part of the countryside in Slovenia cannot use modern technologies available in cities. Of course, we understand that telecommunications and information service providers are building systems from centres to periphery, but they can delay the modernisation of rural technology, which we can understand differently. I'm going to illustrate this by comparing citizens and villagers with the same amount of data exchange. If a citizen sits behind a computer for 10 hours and intensively exchanges data over the Internet, he will pay 8,000 SIT or less and the villagers will have to wait 50 hours for the same amount of data exchange and will pay 40 000 SIT or more. In the countryside, information is exchanged for a time unit 25 times more expensive than in the city. This creates a good profit for the performers, so that their hesitation in modernisation is fully understandable. In view of the above, I ask you, Mr Minister, to explain: What measures will you take to ensure that the use of telecommunications and information technologies is equivalent to that of the city?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u159	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. This is essentially a matter of two ministries, namely our Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Economy. This is for a simple reason because we care about that part of the information network, which is dedicated to applications, services and from the main points, those distribution points to schools, institutions and the like, while the Ministry of Economy cares about the development of the entire network throughout Slovenia. Despite your addressing this question to us, we have asked the Ministry of the Economy and they have given us, as far as the network is concerned, hardware, networks, a precise answer. Allow me to read it, because I am not working so much in this area, but I know that in principle it is considered to produce a broadband network for the whole of Slovenia in a resolution of national development programmes, a specific programme that will cover even Slovenia with this network by 2013. The resolution sets out this programme. It must be said, however, that this is essentially a commercial matter and that European funds can only be used for the part where there is no evidential commercial interest. These are the urban areas that you are actually talking about and that are also in our interest, because in urban areas where there is no great commercial interest, commercial users are not building it, which is why these people have less opportunities, less access. In these areas, our ministry builds public places, so that at schools and at various institutions of a public character, we are also working on these points that provide physical accessibility in rural areas for this information, communication technology. These public access points, which have free access to the computer, internet and basic communication equipment, have already been installed in 390 locations across Slovenia this year. We continue this activity. However, with these points, homes are not covered and people are not yet able to work from home, but they must go to school, to a cultural home, or to a similar institution where this is possible. By establishing a network made by the Ministry of Economy in this project and partly with European funds, as I have already said in a work that is not commercially interesting, we will make a network so that in this UMTS technology we can actually connect the Internet to every home. This is the objective that we set out in this resolution by 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the question of the message. Mr Tomaž Štebe to the Minister for Public Administration, Minister for Environment and Space, Minister for Home Affairs. None of these three ministers are in the Chamber. Do you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u161	I do. I'll read it. I have received partial written replies from the Ministers of the Interior and from the Minister of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u162	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u163	Please explain the circumstances which still enable the vehicle to be dragged away, remove all identities as well as license plates. The established system would not allow the property to be erased without proof of the authorised operator’s takeover of the vehicle into processing. Where does the system not work? We are faced with mangled abandoned vehicles, less in nature and more in urbanized environments. Some of these are supposed to be towed by tow or tow vehicles. Is traffic monitored, cancellation certified and the work of authorised download and processing operators? From both ministers, for the environment and space and for internal affairs, ensure that the police, the inspection, as well as the municipal authorities, will check more closely how these matters are dealt with, and then they will inform me of these verifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you very much. As I understand it, you want written answers from all these ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u165	Yeah, I already got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u166	Please. Mr Martin Mikolič will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, well-respected minister, well-respected colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, Dr. Jure Zupan! This week we are expected to present to the public the project of the University Innovation Centre of Politechnik Ljubljana, which we also read about in the resolution on national development programmes for the period 2007-2023. According to you, the policy technician is the link between higher education institutions, institutes, incubators of new companies, technology centres, centres of excellence and economics in the field of science, biotechnical and technical sciences. It sounds very nice, but as I understand this project, Politechnika Ljubljana is not supposed to be a new institution, but only some kind of set of colleges, institutes, university incubators of technology centres and centres of excellence, which all already exist in Ljubljana. I therefore wonder: Does this project mean the secession of the Faculty of Science and Technology from the University of Ljubljana and the establishment of a new Faculty of Science and Technology? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u169	Your Honor! Thank you so much for asking. First, just for a short moment to understand the project Politechnika Ljubljana. The government and our ministry are working especially to increase the promotion of science and technology in general in Slovenia, as well as specifically in Ljubljana, where the constitution is already high. The first problem with our technical capacities is that they are too small. And from this point of view we plan in Ljubljana, in the area of Viča two larger areas or zones, if we want to judge under the so-called generic common name of Politechnika Ljubljana. One zone is in the area, if you can imagine where there are an electrotechnical college, a university for computer science, an institute of Josef Štefan, a university for mathematics, an accounting centre and an institute for hydraulic research, which occupies a very large, approximately 12,000 square metres of space, which is inefficiently used for these models in dozens of natural size. This is one area. The second area is the location we call Brdo, but it is only through the location where the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology is currently located and it is built by the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology. This is the area from Gradaszczica to Dobrova, for the highway. In these two areas, it is envisaged that in the first area I mentioned, the infrastructure will be built with a new Faculty of Computer Science, Computer Science, a new Centre for Technology and Design envisaged by Joseph Štefan. And in the back, maybe a new machine university will expand, but we can also predict other locations because they are not yet defined. This first part is a mathematically informational electrotechnical part of this university. The other is more knowledgeable about life, chemistry, analytics, biotechnology. There is also a botanical garden, an experimental house, a chemical institute to move from the center because chemistry and a chemical laboratory do not belong to the center of the city. These are the locations and the reasons. As far as you're concerned, what's the signal? As a ministry, we create the conditions for what formation will be, how colleges will decide, and we believe that this is a matter of university autonomy. If the colleges judge, and the signal is clear, that they can make their own university, that they can gather together to create some campus, that they can make some quality, some high-quality polytech, the ministry will support that. But this is actually in the area of the autonomy of the university, the autonomy of these elements, the constitutional elements of the university. The fact is, in addition, that there will also be room for technology centres, for incubators, for centres of excellence, which will work in these areas, in cooperation with universities, with universities and perhaps with new ones, because we do not limit it here, we do not do it for a specific contracting authority, but we do it for these conditions, it is possible to establish new higher education institutions, which we generally call higher education innovation centres, which will grow at a smaller scale with higher vocational schools across Slovenia. These higher education innovation centres, for example, have an interference with the Ministry of Economy, but also in cooperation with us. So much in that sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the first round of questions sent. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. Mr Bevk has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The government adopted a resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 10 days ago, which also includes a chapter entitled Modernising the state road network on priority development axes 3, 3.A and 4 of the development axes. I was very surprised that the Government and the Ministry of Transport did not include the full lines of the fourth development axis in the resolution. Here I mean the entire Celtic, because the connection has fallen out I want - Lower Idrija - Idrija - Godovič - Logatec, to the highway. This is contrary to the adopted strategy for spatial development of Slovenia and the resolution on transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The Idrian public was particularly upset by your statement, Mr. Transport Minister Mag. Christmas, which was published on Friday in the Journal of Work. Here's the cut. I'm saying the Idrians will just have to deal with it. A week ago, at the election meeting in Idrija, you promised better road connections, together with Slovenian People's Party President Janez Podobnik. Following a spring visit by the government in northern Primorska, the Prime Minister first visited the Idrija Kolektor and had a successful photo date in one of the most successful Slovenian companies and one of the most economically developed regions in Slovenia. A few months after that visit, however, the government gave us real disappointment and long-term traffic isolation. Dear Mr. Minister Christmas! As a member of the National Assembly, I propose that the resolution just adopted be supplemented by the fourth development axis, so that it is consistent with the strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia and will be consistent with the recently adopted resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, so that this resolution does not continue to contain a disability in this document, so to speak, the fourth development axis. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u172	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for the question. As is known, in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia road links from Vidma via Tolmin and Škofje Loka forwards to Domžal and from Želen via Idrija to Logatec are defined as road links of cross-border importance which connect to the network of remote connections of international importance when it comes to the trans-European highway network of the fifth and tenth corridors. However, in recent years it has been most invested in updating the road link from Želen through Idria to Logatc. In the coming years, it is also envisaged that the Roads Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to implement the measures on this road link. For the bulk of the planned measures, the project documentation is already ready, the projects are recorded in the development programme plan and most of them will be implemented in the next two, three years. As we have already informed you, in the course of the rehabilitation the banks of the sections of Podrote - Zal, the rehabilitation of the walls on the sections Želan - Lower Idrija and Idrija - Godovic. A project documentation has been prepared to arrange the vehicle at the Želen - Lower Idrija section of 3.5 kilometers long. We therefore believe that at this stage of the project, which is practically already operational, and for which financial resources are already provided through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no need to be included as priority drafts of the resolution. Meanwhile, the road link from Robič via Kobarid and Tolmin to Želen and further across the Cerkne and Poljanska valley to Škofje Loka and Jeprce, which represents the shortest link between Soča and central Slovenia, remained nourished and problematic as regards accessibility for residents and visitors. Travel times along this axis are long, but at the same time, continuous transport connections are not ensured during the winter period. The modernisation of this road axis, together with the arrangements for the transition under Kladje, will be the shortest and most effective transition from the Sorska Valley to central Slovenia, as the differences at altitudes are greater in other ways. The implementation of the measures will improve accessibility to the Supreme Court and the Church, as well as accessibility to the Idrija Regional Centre. The latter is opened by a tunnel in the northern corridor, which further improves Idria's commitment to Gorenjska and further towards Austria or the 10th Transport Corridor and to Brnik Airport. In the event of emergency and winter conditions, Idrija is thus provided with an alternative link to the main city and the highway cross, while the rerouting of traffic flows improves the situation in the southern corridor. Since the measures in connection with Želen-Logatec have been continuously implemented for several years, and are largely delayed by updating, this axis has been classified as a priority draft resolution, which does not mean that the work on the Želen-Logatec link will not continue in accordance with the plans, which means that we are equally supportive of both transport branches.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Unfortunately, in the development programme plan after 2010 this part of the fourth development axis from Želen v Idrija is virtually no longer on any item, while the fourth development axis on the relation from Soča along the Poljanska valley is defined as the highest priority. We do not object to this, but we want you to consider this link, even after this period, in a resolution to be completed by 2020. Until then, traffic flows will significantly change, and this part of Idria and this valley, the Idrijace Valley, I think, will have poor development opportunities, although the economy here is very developed. From your answer, however, it was clear that I will now go to work in Ljubljana through Cerkno and through Kladje or under Kladje when this tunnel will be built. I propose, Mr Minister, that you consider the fourth development axis as a whole, both the Polish Valley and the Idrijca Valley, because this is the only way to ensure the development of these places, not only in Cerkljansk but also in Idrija. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If you remember or now it will be winter, you will be able to listen again every morning on the radio that the road from Idria to Godovic and to Cola and Idovščina is closed to the tractors and [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much for the further explanation and guidance given by Mr Member. I gave an answer as to how it was planned for both sexes, if I may say so, this ipsilon. It is true that you do not see the dynamics after 2010 for the modernisation of the Celtics. I will, of course, examine, prepare a national programme for modernisation of the state road network, whether this will be an integral part of this document, or whether we will go to a resolution that speaks of priority axes. As I have already made very clear, this is an equally important axis. The first one we're talking about, the Celtics, is already modernizing. And this dynamic must go on with an undiminished scale, because this is a necessity and a necessity, because of the industry that is at this end of this part of Primorska. I will examine the situation and see and we can also discuss whether it is sustainable and reasonable to modernise it, go into a national programme or go into enlargement to see where, in which document we can also provide adequate financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Tomaž Strabe. He will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary and colleagues, who are still here. This is the first time I have asked the question of this area. I also addressed it to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Economy. The introduction of a freeway toll system, the direction of heavy freight traffic on motorways and the charging of the environmental burden on national and local roads. By the end of 2008, to introduce freeway tolls on all Slovenian motorways. The Ministry of Transport in the Action Plan envisages the modernisation of the current microwave ABC system, which uses an old non-standard version of technology into a closed toll system on motorways. Road stations are collapsing and portals are being introduced. In the meantime, an old system is expected to be introduced for freight vehicles starting in 2007 and creating a non-standard version of technology. However, overall, it should only last until 2010 for freight vehicles or until 2011 for all vehicles when the introduction of a system based on certain transported sections based on satellite signals is envisaged. This is only on motorways, although the satellite system also allows monitoring of transport on all roads and with price policies to redirect freight and transit transport to roads or motorways and railways for this purpose. Europe is implementing the Galileo Global Navigation System. In Germany, satellite tolling for freight vehicles has been in operation for two years. Slovenia is running for the control centre. In Slovenia there is an experimental toll system that is developed and managed by the domestic consortium. The European Commission has adopted recommendations for this technology. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer and explain the following question: What are the transport, system, technical, and economic reasons for just a two-year introduction of the modernized ABC microwave system, which require the complete replacement of cards and the construction of new portals, the Austrian solution? What are the reasons why, according to the example of Germany, the freeway satellite tolling system is not introduced immediately and gradually? Why take steps that require every two years to switch machines on cars and the cost of equipment on highways? How can you justify correcting the concept of tolling and inadequacy of the current ABC microwave system with the same technology for only two years of use? Compatibility and interoperability for microwave vehicles should be ensured by a mandatory satellite card, as foreseen for domestic trucks in 2006 or for all vehicles in 2011. What specific objectives of transport and economic policies do you intend to achieve?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you so much for the question. The Action Plan for the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation with the conditions for interoperability in the EU adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 29.6.2006 provides for a multi-phase and gradual introduction of the electronic toll system in free circulation and for a simultaneous verification of economic and other indicators, which you yourself list in your question. Today Slovenia is not in the same position as Austria and Germany were when they started the introduction of an electronic toll system. In Slovenia, the continuation of the construction of motorways and the repayment of already rented loans is in direct connection with the toll collected or with the growth of the toll collected over the coming years. The Action Plan clearly shows the financial structure, the introduction of an electronic toll system, tolling depending on the performance of the motorway programme and therefore it is very important to cross-check the procedures and performance of individual phases. In the first phase, we provided for the legal basis of the electronic toll system for certain completely new functions and essential organisational changes and technologically defined the future system in accordance with European directives in this area. Therefore, in the draft law, we limited the electronic toll system or systems to satellite technology to detect vehicle fire, microwave technology for communication between vehicle and road infrastructure and to monitor the proper functioning of the system and electronic tables and GPRS, UMTS, wireless communication environment for transmission of data between equipment and clearing centres. The introduction of a new microwave system, in line with the European guidelines and standards envisaged by the end of 2008, will not be an upgrade to the current ABC system, but will be an organisational and technologically new system with significantly more prominent functions such as automatic vehicle classification, fixed and mobile control and sanctioning of offenders. During the introduction of the free movement microwave system, we will pilot the coexistence of the system, which operates by means of so-called intelligent tolling devices, which combines all the above technologies in the system design. Therefore, this system, which some call a satellite system, is basically an integrated electronic tolling system. The call for pilot verification of the operation of this integrated system is still ongoing. I must point out that the latter system will be intended exclusively for tolling freight over 3.5 tonnes of total mass and will operate on the entire state road infrastructure. The reason for this decision is also the fact that we want to pay more attention to the control, management and direction of freight transport, which is becoming the most problematic factor for sustainable development and the ongoing safe operation of road transport in the European Union as well as Slovenia. This objective is also one of the objectives set out in the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly this May. The integrated system also needs control, identification and sanctioning systems that must comply with tolling systems on motorways. Therefore, it does not claim that the transition between technologies will require the replacement of all infrastructure equipment. The fact is that the maximum cost for the introduction of an electronic toll system in free traffic is not an electronic plate, but systems for monitoring, identification and accounting. Mr Šteba, the main reason is the introduction of new toll collection technologies. Satellite technology cannot be implemented for all vehicles before 2011. However, since our objective is to introduce a closed electronic toll system as soon as possible in the free movement of transport, it is clear that this is possible only with DSRC microwave technology. This is the only way to allow a federal free movement of tolling and interoperability with neighbouring toll systems. Only Germany has a satellite system for cargo vehicles only. DSRC technology is foreseen in steps until the end of 2008, and then the gradual deployment of the satellite system is separate for freight and passenger vehicles. Due to the complexity of the transition and the undefined standard and the entire European satellite system, both toll systems will coexist at least until 2015, so DSRC will operate for at least eight years and not just two years. Moreover, our Slovenian starting point is different from German. We already have a toll system, the Germans have been running it from the start, and this is exclusively for freight vehicles, so direct comparison is difficult to pull. Since I am limited in time, I would also like to provide information that the rerouting of heavy cargo traffic was regulated by an amendment to the regulation which entered into force at the end of the previous week, i.e. on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I did not get an answer to the question why for just one year to introduce an ABC system according to old technology for freight vehicles, and why, as of 2008, when a closed tolling system with microwave technology was to be introduced, the removal of all toll stations and the installation of new portals to be introduced only for two years, by 2010 and 2011, when these portals could also be removed or, as you stated, they would be present for the time when tolls should also be tolled on vehicles using microwave technology. I have a question to ask you: Why should not those with only microwave technology in the territory of Slovenia or Germany or other countries also have a satellite receiver and be towed by satellite technology in these countries? And then in Slovenia, this is my idea or suggestion, we could gradually introduce satellite tolling and then these intermediate stages and costs, and it wouldn't be all that. So, I'm interested in this question, as well as the answer. The ambition of Slovenia is to somehow gain a control centre for the global system Galileo. One of the arguments that would be valid is that Slovenia has an ambition to introduce or already introduce satellite tolling in its field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the additional question and an explanation. I've made it very clear why these steps are. We have identified these steps in the action plan adopted by the Government and this information has also been given. These steps have been made very meaningfully, and they are hand-to-hand very strongly, how we will move on to technology. I also mentioned that this is not a problem for the two units which will have to play a double role in the final stage due to interoperability, namely, microwaves, because some countries in the European Union have microwaves, besides France, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia and some other countries, it is only Germany that has introduced the technology via satellites. But it is essential in this operationality that the user will pay when crossing the highway or virtual loop and pay the toll on the used kilometres of the highway. So in these steps that we have foreseen, these hands, as they were said, are up to 2011. During this time, Slovenia must collect tolls, which are over 40 billion tolars. This is not a trivial matter, this is a serious toll charge, which must count or be correct to the last toll. And we can't play with some variants or pilot technologies and some systems that aren't 100% stable. Therefore, this transition, which will ensure, is not that two years after the introduction of GPS technology or the use of the Galileo system, we simply dismantle these electronic devices and somehow stop using the [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] technology. [[...]] This will take some time for stability and the implementation of the Galileo system. Slovenia has a great interest in this control centre coming to Slovenia. In all directions, ministers are acting to make this happen, but it is difficult to predict the final takeover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u187	Procedurally. In conclusion, I propose to the Minister that we discuss this at another place, because the topic is more extensive so that we can conclude it on this site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-23-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u188	What you just said can't be considered a procedural question. I could only make one suggestion on this case: you did not make this proposal. Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I wanted to continue to thank my four fellow Members for keeping me company. Thank you so much and good night. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
