ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Aleš Gulič from 3 p.m., Franz Kangler and Dr Marko Pavlich. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day - this is a second defence proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on electronic communications. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister, mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Nicely greeted. We have before us a novel of the Law on Electronic Communications, together with a second reading with some amendments. Indeed, years ago, the law took up a European legal order in this area in Slovenia and, in practice, there were some uncertainties in the implementation phase of a few years. In certain cases, we have also found that some solutions can be achieved in a different, more appropriate way. However, it is also important that the field of electronic communications, due to exceptional technological developments, is very dynamic and this is also reflected in the field of regulation, and that is why this amendment of the law before us also takes up new legislation and transposes the last directive in this field into Slovenia, which is Directive 2006/24 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006. It is therefore a matter of coordination with the European legal order, on the one hand, and also of upgrades and corrections to the existing law. So we have three main reasons. As I have already said, this is a transposition of a directive which speaks mainly of data storage. Then, secondly, to better align the Slovenian acquis with the existing directives, the regulatory framework for electronic communications and to amend and supplement the above-mentioned more systematic adequacy of the law. However, a little more detail in the later debate was also given by the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I request the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Franc [[FaeroeCity in ……]] Horvata to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as its parent working body at its 23rd session, 7.11, taking note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and on the basis of this opinion, proposals were prepared for amendments to the Committee, which were also adopted by the Committee. In front of us, we also had proposals or amendments tabled, namely the parliamentary club, then coalition parliamentary groups based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and at the meeting themselves, colleagues Gantar and colleague Friends proposed certain amendments. We were also informed of comments made by the companies Mobil and Simobil, which were forwarded by these two companies through the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Since you have a report before you, quite in detail, allow me to speak a few words above all about the two issues which have somehow remained open and which have also been the most debated on the committee itself. First, Article 86, where a colleague Friend pointed out the problem of possible abuses and costs in this regard. On the basis of the debate, the amendment of the Committee was then adopted, by the fact that the Government still had certain reserves and it was agreed that the matter should be examined until the meeting here at the assembly, is said to date, and proposes a possible better solution. We have before us the proposal of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups and, according to my assessment and the expert services of the committee, the committee covers the issue or comment that has been given or this amendment, and a colleague of the Friends will come forward if he considers it necessary or anyone else. The second issue, which has been given special attention and also long debates, is Article 92 of the draft law relating to Article 107, the issue of data storage. As can be seen from the proposal for a law, a period of 24 months is foreseen. There have been objections to the fact that this deadline is a proposal, both in view of the possible abuses that might have occurred at that time and related to human rights. Operators also noted that such a long time-limit for data storage costs both due to feeding and the necessary processing of data. The amendment proposed by counterpart Gantar to shorten this deadline to 6 months has not been adopted, but it has been somehow agreed, and the Government has also agreed, or by the Committee, that this issue should be examined and proposed by the Government, together with operators and other interested parties, before the meeting. There's no second suggestion, as we can see. However, we have an amendment from a colleague of Gantar or the LDS Club of Members, and then there will certainly be a debate and a decision. The amendments adopted were included in the complementary bill you have before you and I propose that we adopt the law after the debate and eventual adoption of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Rugelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to all Members of Parliament, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Minister Visiak! The purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications is to ensure effective competition in the electronic communications market, to maintain effective use of radio spectrum and digital space, to provide universal service and to protect the rights of users, to promote the development of electronic communications networks and services in the Republic of Slovenia and thus economic and social development in the country in general, as well as to develop the EU internal market and to promote the legitimate interests of all its citizens. The main objectives and solutions of the bill are: to distinguish more clearly between the different entities providing electronic communications networks or services and thus to provide them with more precise rights and obligations, to specify more clearly which body controls each chapter of the Electronic Communications Act. The procedure for issuing a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies is amended to allow the allocation of radio frequencies for digital broadcasting without the cooperation of the Broadcasting Council. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian legal order also introduces Directive 2006/24 of the European Community, which is intended to store data. The prescribed data shall be kept for 24 months for the purpose and interests of the effectiveness of prosecution, security and defence of the State. Operators must, however, ensure that stored data are protected in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data. Here I would mention the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 92, which proposes that these data should only be stored for 9 months. This would literally come at the hands of various villains, because we believe that in such a short period of time a number of crimes cannot be detected, let alone find the necessary evidence. We cannot therefore support such an amendment, although some would like to justify it with reduced data storage and processing costs. In view of the current law on electronic communications, the provisions governing dispute resolution are amended. All disputes are now being resolved by the APEK by pre-imposing the mediation process itself. The basic rules of the mediation procedure are laid down in the draft law. On disputes between public communications service providers and users, however, we will support our coalition's amendment, which provides that public communications service providers take responsibility and the costs incurred as a result of abuses if they do not notify the user of the protection measures. This amendment shall ensure effective sanctioning if the operator fails to notify, while at the same time limiting the operator's liability if he has fulfilled his or her duty. In this way, we have achieved a very important protection for users who have so far had to pay many times for abuses not caused by their guilt. I would also like to mention that Slovenia plans to stop broadcasting in analogue technology and switch to digital broadcasting by 2012, which is certainly very encouraging and we are also opening up new opportunities for broad and rapid development in this area. Since the Government or the Ministry of the Economy have prepared a good proposal for the Law on Electronic Communications, we will certainly support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Director and colleagues and colleagues! The area of regulation of electronic communications and based services, which are usually understood by the information society services - by the way, this concept has disappeared from the "vokabular" of Slovenian government policy, but only in Slovenia. This area is certainly one of the most difficult in modern standardisation and regulation practices. The dynamic development of many technologies, interconnection, integration and convergence, communications, services, content, networks, significant certain activities, all of this requires careful monitoring and such a regulatory policy, which will allow for further development and the widest possible range of services at an appropriate price. If there is, then in this area of deregulation or liberalisation the market and competition have in fact shown its advantages. In order to continue to ensure this, there is a need for careful, normative regulation and good regulation. With such a fast-growing area of electronic communications, it is therefore not unusual for us to meet only two years after the adoption of the law with its additions and amendments. In fact, we can divide the changes into three main sets. The first set is the transposition of the new Directive concerning electronic communications into the Slovenian legal order. As already mentioned, this is Directive 2006/24/EC, which concerns data storage, and this has already been said and I will say something later. Then there are changes that are needed, more precise, with a more appropriate formulation of individual articles or provisions. Wherever practice has shown that the implementation of the law constitutes a problem where it has to be further clarified certain issues that cannot always be foreseen in advance, it is correct to keep it under constant monitoring and improvement where necessary. Some solutions are what they are. The current minister and the director feel that solutions can be different, which I agree with, but this is also a matter of taste to some extent, but these are normal, legitimate changes. However, there are also changes that are unnecessary and harmful, reflecting the change in the policy of this Government towards electronic communications. Under the company "Creating the Conditions for Digital Radio and Television Broadcasting" generally reduces the transparency of frequency sharing and thus increases opportunities for biased political decision-making. At the same time, it is clear what has also been said on the Committee that this law does not solve all circumstances and conditions for digital broadcasting and will therefore have to prepare a completely new law. Or, for example, the amendments to Article 14 which, according to the criticism of the European Commission, would allow any high official of the Ministry to re-sit on the Telecom Management Board. Otherwise, with these changes, he will not be able to do so because of other articles. I also point out that operators have made many useful comments, and some comments have, to say the least, been of no use. However, the applicant did not take into account anything and did not take into account the warnings given at the meeting of the Committee. The LDS Club and some others have also made or made more amendments. In addition to the amendment that taught that the e-mail address was not the same as the internet address, no other amendment was adopted. A key story is the transposition of the Data Storage Directive, which is governed by Articles 17a, b, c, c and d, and requires the storage of this data for 24 months. This is a directive that did not require an electronic sector. This is a directive that has not been required by the electronic industry, which is a directive required by others, namely the police, defence and internal ministers, who impose heavy burdens on this sector. We will later show that this is an attack on the development of this sector, as it is, and that it is not necessary for Slovenia to adopt the most acute version of the application of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment or additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, because we believe that Directives of the European Community and the existing knowledge, which are a little over two years old, should be implemented as soon as possible into the Slovenian legal order. We also support the amendments that are given to individual proposed solutions. However, we have paid particular attention to the implementation of a directive in the Group of Members on data processing and privacy protection in the field of electronic communications. This Directive clearly commands that all providers of publicly available electronic communications services must ensure security and confidentiality in the implementation of these services. Therefore, those provisions in the law which determine the time or time period for storing the data of the contracting authorities are particularly sensitive. If it is understandable that the time of data storage between the contracting authority and the contractor is due to a particular dispute until this dispute is resolved, this similar logic cannot apply to cases where the relationship between the authorities of the State and the citizens is concerned. In fact, the applicant proposes that all data on contracting entities be stored for 24 months because of the possible interest of the repressive authorities. We are here before a similar dilemma as we were in the case of the completion of the Law on Owl with regard to the use of specific methods and listening measures. Perhaps it is even more serious in this case, because in this case it is a system for storing communication information about my contacts via electronic communications with other unlimited contracting entities, i.e. every 24 months my electronic file will be cleared and reopened. The Directive of the European Union has left each member to choose for himself the storage time between 6 and 24 months. With us, the proposaler has decided for a maximum period of 24 months. We see no compelling reason for this deadline in the Social Democrats Group, on the contrary, given the assessments of the security threat in relation to terrorist acts in Slovenia, this proposal is not favoured. I also quote the argument used by the committee's proponent: "If we look historically, this data was already available for this purpose on the basis of general powers and by 2004 until the amendment of the law was adopted, this data was made available on the basis of the general collection of police notices referred to in Article 148 of the CAP." This argument is not true, on the contrary, it is a very dangerous argument, because before the police have done it alone, it will now even be done with the help of the operator. It is true that a court order is needed today, but by that time, 24 months in one place is a pile of data and an incredible opportunity for any abuse. Together, we should think more about how important it is to our personal security, the security of our neighbors and society as a whole, the information and communication privacy of all of us, and especially the data that is collected and stored in this way. The immeasurable power of the "great brother" on which the state builds a monopoly on information about citizens, their privacy, contains virtually unlimited opportunities for the worst violations of law and the abuse of rights. Therefore, any extension of these powers by law is worthy of repeated, weighty consideration. In fact, there is no shortage of individuals in democracy who blackmail and publicly account for the misuse of such low-slope data by people who are disturbed by their governmental self-dazzle. In short, in the Group of Members, we propose that the proposer reconsider this 24-month half-life. The second part of this problem, which is related to the costs of operators, which will be paid by the contracting authorities at the final stage, will not be lost in words. It's absurd that he'll have to cut himself in his own pocket for a self-control order. It's not a letter from a book about a police state, it's kind of a conductive state masochism. As I said at the outset, despite these concerns and serious warnings, we will still support the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Nicely greeted. Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the Proposal for a New Law on Electronic Communications. The applicable Law on Electronic Communications entered into force in May 2004. During the more than two-year period of application, it has demonstrated in practice certain uncertainties which have made the implementation of the law difficult, while also finding that in certain cases the purpose of the law can be achieved in a more appropriate manner. The proposal therefore aims to remedy the confusion and, where necessary, introduce more appropriate solutions. In the Slovenian legal order, the draft law introduces a directive on the storage of data obtained or processed in connection with the provision of publicly accessible electronic communications services or public communications networks, which was adopted on 15 March 2006. The 24-month deadline for data storage is proposed, which is the longest possible deadline and does not significantly increase costs, and the law enforcement authorities also agreed with this deadline. The draft law also better aligns the Law on Electronic Communications with the so-called Directives of the regulatory framework for electronic communications, which have already been transposed by the basic law. In accordance with the provisions of these Directives, it has laid down in particular the conditions for the provision of electronic communications networks or services, the scope and provision of universal service, the provision of competition, the provision of radio spectrum and the numbering of users' rights, the protection of the confidentiality and confidentiality of electronic communications, and the functioning of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency. The law also regulates liability in cases of abuse not caused by the fault of users. This was also one of the main themes of the debate on the Committee, where it was agreed that before the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, this issue should be reconsidered and, if possible, proposed a more appropriate solution. The Committee on the Economy has expressed a number of legal and system-specific concerns related mainly to the clarity and proportionality of the proposed solution. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that the amendment proposes to complement the Committee with the solution adopted. This ensures the most effective provision of effective sanctioning, suspension of information by the public communication service provider, as if the user does not notify the possible safeguard measures, assumes that any damage may not be caused by the user's fault, which is why he is not responsible for such damage. Protection is also another important advantage as the proposed solution contains a significant limitation on the liability of the public communication service provider if the latter has fulfilled its obligation. However, as has already been said, the main purpose of the proposed amendment of the law, in addition to the transposition of the directives, is to remedy the confusion and, where necessary, introduce more appropriate solutions and, therefore, we will also amend and supplement the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group. They're backing us up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, this law brings the one necessary after updating the 2006 European Directive, and 24 has a number and provides more clear provisions for supervision. The Government may also set up additional services and the proposal for a law also regulates the limitation of property rights in the construction of electronic communications networks which are not intended for the public. This is in some ways positive, but none of my predecessors have so far restricted themselves to the fact that the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which informed the mother's working body that 32 articles in its opinion were constitutionally controversial. My committee discussion focused on what happened years ago to users of these services, namely abuse in the use of telecommunications services when they were charged costs for which they were not responsible. And thank you, Minister, that, on my initiative and on my written question, the request has answered positively, but nothing has happened from here on out. When I introduced him to the fact that people were also receiving millions of bills for which they were not actually responsible, because they were unable to detect on analogue telecommunications connections when an invasion of their line was carried out, the obligation of the majority owner would in fact also be a country in which the company providing this service would be reimbursed. And the Minister himself wrote in his reply - 10 pages long this answer believes - that in the light of the above, he can conclude that the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the side of the user is excluded. This law, which we have before us today, in article 86, allows us to make a first-time safeguard that will give the user an obligation to protect analog links that we know are not protected today; on the other hand, to update all these inconsistencies and to modify the law so that it is comparable to the European one. What my predecessors have said is that, in accordance with the amendments adopted or mentioned in the law, data storage is also increasing, which will increase the costs of the operator, it is also true. In a way, operators are also now ahead of the situation when their costs increase, and I fear that this cost will simply be transferred to the user's account, which will significantly increase the already high costs that we are getting at home. So I would ask myself from this city because the law is open to the government to reconsider whether this time frame is truly appropriate or not; it could be shorter. With regard to what is happening today as the destiny of many, hundreds of millions of claims are and citizens are left to justice alone, and I would say the following. I know that the law cannot regulate the matter backwards, what nonsense is to be expected, but I would ask and appeal to the Minister present here that for those parts of the costs that are evident and can be proven, visible and for which no users are responsible - I am talking in particular about the claims, including those of single mothers who have received an invoice for a million dollars - to be found somewhere with the country, the APEC and with Telekom some agreement and that these costs are borne by the operator. This would also be true because users are protected in all other services; we know if there is a time limit for use on a food item, that trade must eliminate it, or if the article is dangerous for use, it should also be excluded. But there's no protection at all. Minister, I'm asking you to finalize this matter, as you wrote in your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! We now know that the proposed amendments and additions to this law are largely supported by all of us, but there are still some concerns about some of the outstanding issues that may be further considered later in the discussion. Let me say that the DeSUS Group will also support the proposed additions and amendments to this law and therefore secure its votes. For a law that is not really ancient, the law, which is relatively new, however, the applicant found that experience has shown some weaknesses, some ambiguities. The proposal said that this coordination with European directives is also necessary, which is not uncommon in our work, and said that there is a need to improve the protection or protection of users, which was also adopted at the meeting of the home committee. Let us add to this only that this amendment and the amendment of the law are also directed in the direction that we agreed on when we concluded the coalition agreement, and this is also one of the reasons, at least for coalition parties, to support it. The development of the economy, the development of technologies, in particular the development of technologies in the area now under discussion, is an extremely dynamic, very direct intervention in our lives, it changes it, most often for the better, and something bad happens, which we have heard both on the committee and today. What was bad for some users is now being corrected by the amendment, and we think it is also to protect a direct user who is powerless, who has no means or means to receive any significant action, and that this responsibility is being assumed by those operators who actually serve. And it is also right that they earn by their activity, and it is significantly easier to amortise possible disputes than any individual user. Let's just stop at two things. One is to support the amendment proposed by the coalition groups. And the initiative came from the other side. It is our view that it is also worth considering what is with these storage deadlines, because it is something that the directive limits with very different hands. So, the diapozone is from 6 to 24 months. The argument that the 24-month deadline has been proposed is that there is a strong interest in the area of prosecution of crime, in the protection of constitutional regulation in our country, in the protection of economic, political and other interests. And, of course, the question is whether it is true that Slovenia would be most at risk in these areas, so that the deadline should be set in these articles, which lay down the storage of these data. We think that it is worth thinking about how much the real costs that we are causing to the operator are, that it is worth considering, what is optimal between the minimum and the maximum deadline. So what provides sufficient security for our economic, political, constitutional and other order and does not overload operators. We will be pleased if an agreement is found that the proposed 24-month storage period can be reduced. However, I am convinced that the amendments would also be ready to discuss the deadlines and that that nine-month proposal is not the only possible proposal we can agree on. If we are able to agree on this, then in the DeSUS Group we will be so much more supportive of this amendment and amendment bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21 November 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 86 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr. Gantar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	I thought someone else would answer. I will support this amendment. I think it's good, but I would say that we need to be aware that users are not too informed users, so they don't realize and get to know each other on the phone, even analog or whatever, they just use the function and most of the functions they don't even use. It is therefore important to note in particular if such an amendment is to be adopted and I hope that the operators or the Agency will have to explicitly inform users of what these reasonable measures are. A brochure, the Internet, advertising, or anything like that should inform users of what they can do themselves, what these reasonable measures are, but not that these reasonable measures are written in small print at the time of the contract concluded by the contracting authority. And if so, if the Minister and the Director-General can promise that they will do everything with the Agency and the operators to inform users of what reasonable measures are, how they can be used, then I think the purpose of this amendment has been adopted. However, if this is left to the initiative of users only, I fear that the situation will not improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr. Friend also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to highlight some of the events that have taken place in the past and why this amendment, why this correction of this article. See, several comments were made on Telekom in 2004 that, in fact, the invoice that was issued was illegal, that it was too large, that users disagreed, that more than 100 million claims were made from this title. What happened? Actually, there's been a big place. Users were injured for millions of dollars; that account, I will say, was exhibited and in some way also executed the places of their phone impulses, and they were not even informed in time. I was appalled by the fact that APEK also reacted somewhat negatively, the only positive thing we got was the response on the 10 pages from the minister and the fact that the user cannot be responsible for this part of the account. What is sorrow and tragedy in what I say? It is sad that this has happened on analogue connections, and those who know little of this matter, we know that this is mainly about older computer equipment, which can be attached to a modem, or about equipment that is not capable of being drawn to a user site, cannot provide an adequate transmission, either via optical cables or any other wiring. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is mainly poorer layers that afford the existing computer equipment to purchase a modem and connect to an existing telecommunications network and thus provide either children with study conditions or with the need to access the Internet. And that's exactly what happened to those families. We have a case where the single mother got a million dollars to pay the bill. And in fact, because she didn't pay for it, Telekom executed it. And today, from such a small personal income as he has, it's not his fault, they're essentially cutting his personal income. And this is the guilt that should be corrected. That is why I have also proposed an amendment to Article 86, and I am actually glad that the government coalition has accepted this, as I heard earlier from my colleague, for its amendment. I thank you if this amendment is accepted as such, even if it is not mine. And I understand the need of the Government, I also understand the actual demands of the European Community that we must synchronize our legislation with European legislation, but we must not exclude the interests of our citizens. This is exactly what happened in this marriage, and for two years we've been trying to fix this injustice, and there's no way. It is precisely this article that I am pleased that the mother's working body has reacted reasonably and that, in addition to this article, we have in fact accepted this as a proposal from the mother's working body. I would, of course, ask that we continue to take this decision with a majority decision and that further abuse is avoided. In retrospect, as I said earlier in explaining the position of the Group, I expect from the Minister, because it is a majority ownership of a state-owned company, that it will nevertheless affect this company, which we know has no losses, no operator in us has any losses to delete these costs or to make credits. By doing so, we will take a big step to show that there is still some honesty in the National Assembly. That'd be right. It is not a large amount for the country, but it is a large amount for individuals who are pushed to the brink of an existing minimum or survival is questionable because they have received such recovery and are placed solely before they are left with judicial protection. You know that it costs the court mills to grind slowly and the interest rate runs faster than the water on the open tap. When it comes to the interest rate of the state, of course. So I politely ask you to accept this and also, as has already been said by all the debaters, to listen to the operator's demands, so as not to avoid increasing accounts, so that the time limits for data storage can be reduced and more control by the law enforcement authorities is introduced. Because we know that the police on this segment are limping, we have the most crime on the Internet, and we have the most crime on the other hand by removing the phone impulses. This is the case I was talking about earlier, and we have the most criminality in that there are unprotected data to abuse this electronic medium. Not everything's in this department. It would also be right to put pressure on the Ministry of the Interior and to impose on the Government, after all, the responsibility to organise a special service within this department, which will follow a technique that is better from day to day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The events pointed out by Member Friends were also the result of the 86th edition of the Law on Electronic Communications, which was upgraded by the coalition on the initiative of the Member with an amendment supported by the Ministry and the Government. All with a single wish that such abuses do not occur and that it is necessary to engage the operator in addition to the user, and this imposes upon the operator certain obligations. Mr Gantar warned that it is also necessary to inform users accordingly. We estimate that the third paragraph, as amended by Article 86, imposes this on the public communications service provider to publish this information in such a way as to reach users as soon as it comes to risk. I would also like to point out that users are usually informed about all these matters also through accounts, that is to say the opposite. We therefore want to see with this dictatorship that operators are significantly more operational and committed and also bear part of the responsibility. I hope that in the future, this will prevent certain abuses that have, unfortunately, occurred. Of course, I would be in violation of the law if, as Minister, I were to instruct companies to do something or to abandon certain actions, I could only say my opinion. It is my opinion that it might actually be correct for an operator, when it is also critical to assess that an account is the result of abuse and does not result from the intentional or reckless conduct of the user in order to cover it, to cover these costs and not go into disconnects or other executions. I can just say that. This seems correct and correct, but of course, as I have already said, legislation prevents me from imposing or otherwise from influencing a state-owned enterprise. That would abuse my position, which I don't want. As a result, I believe that the correct relationship between operators and users and a friendly relationship, since operators must be user-friendly, since, after all, they depend on the market and users to have one important operator-to-user gesture; and I therefore believe that this would have a positive impact on the "reating" of this company or that operator in public. In short, we fully agree with the intention of the proposing and initiators of this amendment and believe that this is an important step forward so that users do not feel like drastic measures in their accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the debate? Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I think that this amendment, which we will support in our Group of Members, will certainly help to ensure that the interest of the provider of public communications services is informed by the user about all the things that could lead to these abuses that we are now discussing. I think the users are different. I myself remember when I worked in the development of Gorenje, the appliances for the domestic market were equipped with instructions for use. When it came to the American market, however, it was necessary to install an additional light or something else, according to the local word, more so was the "trotl ziher system", and that is also the difference. I want to say that the Slovenian nation is quite a learner and, certainly, if it is informed in due time, at the right time, it will certainly be to these abuses, where now, on the basis of this amendment, the consequences will be borne by the operator in order not to do so. That is precisely why we in the Group of Members will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate article 92 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Rugelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will not support this, as we have already said, and I personally believe that if we compare the speed of those who persecute criminals, seek and punish us, with those who do it in the European Community, I think we are pretty low on this. I think the 24-month deadline is quite appropriate and shows that the Government is serious about these things, including in the area of crime prevention, in the field of electronic communications. And in this way it will be much easier to find those specific perpetrators if necessary. There is no deceiving or anything, but it only shows that we need to look at these things differently from in Europe. This period ranges from 6 to 24 months, but foresees all possible options. There have been some ideas with us, in this House, even for 6 months, which is, given our situation in Slovenia, to almost give to these criminals as "right, what you continue to do". I think we need to do this to show them that we can't do this and that we're going to make it impossible for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Of course, I also agree with the fact that we need to do things differently in Europe. I also fully agree that the courts are slow, but then this needs to be resolved where the cause arises, in the courts, but not in the entire legal system, to be adapted to the negligentness and slowness of the courts. I also agree that we need to do things differently than we do in Europe, for the second time. See, the period from 6 to 24 months is due to the fact that each country can choose, depending on its specificity, that time limit for monitoring and storing communications data, as is best suited to the specifics of each country. And now, like on the board, I'm once again interested in why we decided on the longest possible date. I still believe - because there is an explicit answer to the question also on the committee - that there are only two options: whether Slovenia is very, very threatened in terms of terrorist attacks or other crime and therefore the deadline has to be extended, or whether we have a tendency for a police state and the maximum possible time is chosen for this. Of course, none of these options are good and I would really like to hear other valid arguments why we decide on the longest possible period, but when we see that the possibility is also significantly shorter, four times shorter. And when we decide on the proposed amendment, let us also keep in mind the fact that the longer term clearly means higher costs. Not only because there is a need to provide four times more space, but also because of the renewal of data and also because of their feeding on more reliable media. And we all know that operators will have to charge these costs to someone; and we don't have to ask who to charge them to. When we decide on this amendment, when we decide how long the data should be fed, we also decide how much more citizens and citizens will pay for their telecommunications, for their business and for the use of all these media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I would say that at this point we may not even be aware of the importance of this communication and information privacy, especially the data collected in this direction. I would therefore also like to point out once again to those debated today, and if an explanation for the law has been read, the judiciary has even proposed a period of 48 months, even once more than it is now in the proposal. We in this National Assembly have the task as Members and Members of Parliament to go against people, not the authorities of the country. The authorities of the State have their own interests and try to enforce them in this National Assembly, both in this case the police and the justice ministry. Personally, I do not think that, at this point in time, we do not have a healthy enough situation to allow this way of collecting and storing data of some kind, I will not say complete because it is never possible, complete security and there is no abuse. Otherwise, I would like to help you if you said we had to compare ourselves with Europe, this last study which was carried out this year in connection with the 2006 privacy survey. You won't believe it, but Slovenia and the Netherlands are in the last place. We got a score of 2.3. Let me just say, on the basis of which indicators this study was made: video surveillance, information interception, on-the-job surveillance, access by law enforcement authorities to data, data storage and so on. There is only Sweden and Great Britain behind us, but there are countries like Germany, Austria, Belgium and so on. Therefore, I propose that we also compare ourselves within these 25 countries and not be in the last or last place, but take a few steps forward. I would therefore suggest once again that the Government or the Ministry reconsider and consider whether it would be unwise to insist on insisting on nine months in the Group of Members, but, as we say, on the measures relating to the Law on the Soviet Union, we propose that this deadline is half a year; and we think that this is a reasonable and long enough period for some authorities to be able to carry out their affairs within it. I don't want to, but it's my personal opinion that in about a month, two months from now, this cell phone will say, "The Minister of Economy Vizjak warns you that a big brother looks at you and listens to you." Just like it says on the cigarette box from the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Would you like to do it now, Mr. Secretary? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I really owe it to you, I don't know if we understand each other, but the directive speaks and regulates the storage of electronic transport data. That's what you're saying. It's information about the number from which it was called, when, from where, but it's not content. That's very important, because here you'd love to talk about it if you were now, I don't know, someone was watching it, what they were talking about or anything. No, that's not what this is about! This is a storage of traffic data and this is regulated by the Directive in order to avoid or assist these modern means of communication in detecting and sanctioning crimes. If you ask operators as well as the Ministry of the Economy, we are also looking to the shortest possible date, but the deadline is set, and in particular the directive, to serve the purpose, it is said that these data may also give rise to some more clearly identified circumstances related to law enforcement. If we are to pursue a purpose, we must, of course, follow those deadlines with those responsible for the persecution in our country, including certain services, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Slovenian Security Intelligence Agency. When we aligned this with them, it came to be as you have already said that this extremely long period allowed by the directive is too short for them. And for this reason, we propose this period with a single purpose, in that this stated standard actually serves its purpose. Because we can write and ostrichly hide our heads in the sand and write a shorter hand and there will be no effect, and we do not want that. We want the effect to be, and I will be happy to see that the results will be upgraded soon, not least in the removal of this government's judicial backlogs, but which are not, of course, judicial backlogs and these processes are due, I don't know, to the two-year rule of this particular government, but this is just some common long-term and long-term responsibility of a lot of people who are still wondering how this is happening today. So, I want to say and argue why we have set this deadline and why we do not support an amendment that would shorten that deadline. And one thing, the abuse of this data is possible whether the deadline is 6 months or 24 months. The extension of the deadline shall not affect and shall not lead to the abuse of this data. Actually, he's having a hard time getting involved. This would not prevent any misuse of such data, which should not be misused for any other purpose, by reducing the time limits itself. That is how we insist on the solution originally enshrined in the law and oppose the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Stebe has yet to raise his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary and colleagues and colleagues! The minister has now said the essence of the matter. The logic and purpose of this deadline is that, as long as possible, it is possible to have the possibility of having, on the basis of the indications directly collected from the technical data, to obtain a court order to monitor such suspicious data on the basis of these indicators. And if this deadline is longer, it is also time to start or discover the right indication, a longer and greater possibility of finding such a case. If the time is shorter, then these evidence will be erased and it is no longer possible to get to the circumstances that indicate that some communications are being carried out for the purpose of criminal acts and so on. Thus, this period of logic should be as long as possible. In fact, only basic data that does not yet serve, in my opinion, evidence material is collected, but they serve to indicate, as I said, that, as I said, the indic is to be accompanied by such data under the conditions of confidential data, in order to initiate appropriate procedures for more detailed monitoring of such a person or such associations. I would also like to say that such collected data, such protected data under the conditions of protecting the confidentiality of the person, are substantially better protected than all the data that is being collected primarily through video surveillance, by monitoring and monitoring persons, where there are no measures and mechanisms, how this data is then processed and protected, because it is simply not possible and too many persons are personally involved in these monitoring, movement and functioning of us individuals. Let's see, on the highways, in business buildings and so on. Thus, the purpose of this solution is to actually get some data so that prosecutors or criminals can initiate further procedures to collect evidence and then effectively prosecute such crimes. At the same time, each of these persons has the right to look at all the data collected for them. So I think that this may already be the case for any of the persons who do not act in accordance with the rules - that they can actually determine what information is being collected about it, in fact, by law already knows that they are being collected - as a kind of warning to them that they are being limited in the means of communication that are under control. I'm going to oppose this amendment myself. I think it is in the interest of all of us that the possibility of identifying indicators is as long as possible, that this period is as long as possible, and that the possibility of detection of suspicious acts by individuals and associations is as wide as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you. As more time for discussion has been raised, I am opening a new round of applications. Mr. Kumer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I hope you don't mind me, my friend Steba, you'll never be Home Secretary. Because what you said at the outset was that this information was supposed to be the basic indication for obtaining a court decision, please! That's exactly what I've been warning you all along that there might be an abuse. And I hope that doesn't happen, even though I said that I'm not 100% sure about these things. However, one of the colleagues will be able to confirm how these basic data are provided to some security operators. In fact, when I talk about this, and in the Group of Members, we separate well, to collect or store what information is going on and on what basis these data can then be used. On the basis of one practical case, I would like to state what the abuse of such data means. And I'm going to give you a Czech case that is related to the president when some villain, as was said today, who accidentally made a mistake in the GSM number, called the number GSM of the President of the Czech State. But the president also fell into a group that was under the treatment of further procedures, and so on, that I do not explain. So once again, it's very sensitive matter and it doesn't have to be with these basic data, the whole bunch, available for 24 months. Here, the amount of data collected on thousands and thousands of people is very important in terms of abuse. There's less of that information. There's less chance of abuse. Other things are when the court order is and then the authorities are intercepted and so on, this is a completely different matter. But we are talking about these basic data that others may abuse for other purposes, not those authorities that we are talking about wanting to have that deadline. Once again, the security situation in this area in Slovenia cannot be as bad as in Germany, Austria, for example, that I do not list some other countries that have this deadline for one year. And so once again, let's give this deadline 24 months to halve into one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, to understand each other, it is about collecting and storing the so-called transport data described in Article 307.b. and those who have read Article 307.b., you will see that this is a whole range of data, which, of course, are sometimes even more important and more about the nature of communication than just listening in because of the number and logistics that is now difficult to control - it is known - and so on. What we need to know about this Directive and what I have already stressed is first of all that this Directive and the initiative for this Directive have not come from the electronic communications sector or, if you want, the electronic or telecommunications industry. It did not come from operators, nor from the Directorate for Information Society and Media, it came from the side and was imposed on some by Directorates dealing with justice, internal security, police, defence, terrorism and so on. And it is quite clear that this Directive, or 6 or 12 or 24 months, does not contribute to the development of electronic communications, to which this law is intended in its entirety, but in essence rather than to its own - either neutral or even reduced and meant burdens and costs for operators. The preservation of these millions and billions of calls, and this across a whole range of parameters, is a huge storage capacity. Some have even argued that for this Directive there is also an industry that produces this storage of capacity and so on - there is no evidence, at least I do not have it. And above all, it must be said that people are beginning to realize that their privacy is questionable and that this can reduce business in the long run to this business of electronic communications, as people can start using less. 24 months, deadline for data storage. I would accept that if I had some empirical, well-founded analysis that this deadline was needed 24 months in Slovenia. We do not have such an analysis, except for the strong position of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, that the maximum time limit is the best time. They say - and we are always hearing that the security situation is good, that Slovenia is being improved, but at the same time they require drastic hands and the longest deadlines for the directive. We know that the data has been stored before. We know that they were fed for the needs of operators, accounts and so on, and that they had to turn into an impersonal form. And that is, of course, significantly more today and is essentially more nutritious than it was then. Now what is the problem with these matters is that there is a possibility of abuse - here I do not agree with the minister, here I think: a greater amount of storage, there is a greater possibility of abuse. The possibility of abuse is also in 6 months; but in 24 months it is so much bigger, there are so many opportunities, traps, especially traps and opportunities to abuse. We know that the Target Commission, which is responsible for another area, has already run into the wall twice: once it was unable to enter the premises of the Ministry of the Interior, the second time it could not enter the premises of one of the mobile operators. We can't today - I'm a long way from claiming to be running some, you could say, conspiracy idea about all general surveillance and wiretapping, etc. - but today, on the basis of how strong this commission is, we cannot claim 100% that no one who is unauthorized would know who or when and where we were talking. I cannot say this because it is obvious that this Commission cannot reach certain data either. Protecting villains, Comrade Rugelj, is a sacred pardon. Bad guys are bigger villains than you think, and when they know that some communication is controlled and closed, they use others and different ones. And that is why if today someone thinks they're talking about a terrorist attack, I don't know, a London resort or any other mobile phone - no, not even with special agreed signs, etc. No, you don't! They use other methods. The Internet, however, cannot verify this, is of course a very powerful tool and also a very possible tool in some other way that this mechanism will not be able to intercept, by changing websites, proxies, blurring IP addresses and so on. This directive cannot prevent this from happening. I could say this in particular, we will, with such an article as today, actually protect the villains, but those who may unauthorizedly look after who, what and with whom we have telephoned and where. We'll protect these villains. I would say this in particular, the Government, of course, the Ministry, probably, for the economy - I must congratulate her for having done so much, said that when the directive was adopted Slovenia joins those countries that will have 18 months to maintain the application of the Communication Data Directive, which have found access to the Internet, internet telephony and internet e-mail. Great, that was a good move. This law should be adopted in 18 months, but it is obvious that the Ministry of the Interior or the police ministers and the Ministry of Justice have convinced this Ministry that it is necessary to strike the law immediately with this directive. Once again, I would like to say: there is no way to look at this data under this law, which you are talking about, because these data are not registers, there are no registers of personal data maintained by public services, etc. You can now, on the basis of the law, ask the operator for all your information, who, when, where you telephoned - but for yourself. No access to the database is allowed and is not possible. Of course you're wrong here. In short, I think there are enough reasons that 9 months is a reasonable period, if it were still somehow acceptable for 12 months, 24 months is a completely excessive deadline, does not correspond to the security situation in Slovenia, does not need and reduces, I would say, the use of these communications and will not have a good impact on the social climate. That is why I would suggest or nine months, but in the third reading, of course, where this is amended, we would also, I don't know, 12 months if that was necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you. I am in favour of the amendment prepared by the LDS House of Members, and at the same time I regret that the Commission has not voted in favour of petitions and human rights and equal opportunities as an interested working body to consider a provision that you do not want to intervene in human rights. However, this regret cannot be overly profound, because I know from experience that nothing can be accepted on the committee that would be past the will of the coalition, because the ratio of forces is what it is, and I derive from the experience I have with the provisions that have been linked to the supervision of security and intelligence services. Now to what upsets me most about it. He already quoted Kumer as an international private study in 2006. Well, since England or Great Britain is also not an overly frightening or surprising information, given that Orwell knew long ago how to deal with these things, but what is worrying about the adoption and transposition of directives in Slovenia is that we always go to the maximum. And when I listened to the Minister, I should be thrilled that we did not accept or could accept what the Ministry of Justice expected, which would even have twice that deadline, for 48 months. In doing so, I note that we are at a great crossroads between what we publicly declare as a situation in this country, that the security situation is good, and, on the other hand, everywhere when we have to think about what is required from the position of the repressive authorities in this country, we indulge their demands, and we are very much in favour of their ideas on how to achieve a better solution. After this international study, Slovenia is a party to the protection of privacy between Israel and the United States in one way or another. What about Israel and the United States after 9/11 about protecting human rights in the name of protection against terrorism is another question. And it seems particularly important to me to say something else - that I have also witnessed several times in the previous term when we took over the European legal order, that human rights must have been somewhat blurred when the police or some other repressive body came forward, all in the name of security. However, if you go to very specific points where the standards and standards for protection are set, it may also appear that some things are doing very well at home. And in this regard, my written question to the Minister of the Interior regarding control at the entry stations, at border controls, is, say, at the Brno airport. In the interests of reasonableness, it would be good to support the proposal made by the LDS, and to join in this, that if we cannot be satisfied with the 9-month deadline, then in the third reading it will be extended or reduced to 12 months. I stress, the state, the security evaluation doesn't justify what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Well, I'm a little worried that some people are trying to put this possibility of data abuse in front of that data storage for criminals. To put it briefly, this is about as much as it would have been for us to estimate that there are more honest men in prison than criminals in the Age. I think we've put things on our heads. There may be some particular abuse, but I don't think there's any comparison here. And what I want to say is that giving 24 months doesn't mean that we're somewhere in the last place or whatever it is that it's trying to show up, but that we're in the first place; and why 6 months in the first and 24 months in the last or in the middle. In addition, we are arguing here about some months that are not really that important, and it is important that we provide sufficient time for those who are persecuting crime to be able to successfully investigate certain cases so that we do not make them difficult and open up to criminals on the other side of the door. I think that this proposal is a good one, not an amendment, of course, but a proposal in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Members and Members of Parliament and to the Minister! I must say that I did not intend to come forward with this amendment at first, because I felt that I was not familiar with matters, but after this discussion I assessed that it was right for me to say my own opinion. So here you are proposing the archiving of these traffic data for only 9 months, and as an argument I have seen from the opposition's discussions, the main two points which you are suggesting are this: the first costs of archiving and the second abuse of data. I myself think that, as regards the costs of archiving, I agree that there are certain costs involved, but that is not a large sum at the time of electronic communications and digital archives. I would say that this argument of costs is negligible compared to the benefit that such an archive can bring on the occasion of the detection of certain abuses. The second argument that these archived data can now be misused is an argument; but let's ask ourselves, we are archiving the data - we are now being subjected to abuse against abuse. We want to detect or prosecute abuses by archiving data, but we don't archive things because we're afraid that maybe someone could misuse it. I will say, for honest citizens of Slovenia, the archiving of 9 months or 24 months is no matter, for an honest citizen it would not matter if it were 48 months as suggested, if I understood correctly, the justice ministry. Why do we have such long arms? Perhaps the state of justice is that; first of all, the discovery of certain acts, we know that they are discovered for a very long time, more than 9 months, and then the judicial proceedings themselves take endlessly. Now I'm going to say a little bit in a parable, everyone who does something good, something fair, is happy to talk about it for as long as possible, but if he does some bad thing, what kind of offense, it would be best if everything was forgotten and erased tomorrow. And one more thing I'm going to point out, from the opposition's debates, was the speech again, as if we were a police state, as if the police were the greatest enemy of our citizens, but I'm going to say again what I said in this national council: the police for what they're meant for is for our safety, for our rescue, and so on, and so on, from today's debate it was to be seen, as if the police were the greatest enemy of citizens, not to say the state, but the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. You weren't named. I'm reopening my application for debate. You can sign up, please. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, with regard to the postponement of the directive, Sweden, Lithuania postponed it for 18 months, Belgium even for 36 months, Finland, Germany for 18 months, as well as Slovenia. I wonder why there was this change. Why did you hurry? Has the security situation changed so much that it was necessary to cancel or withdraw from this postponement and to adopt the law immediately today and tomorrow in a fast procedure, and I do not know what to do to make use of it? I would say that again to this directive, once again. I am prepared to accept 24 months if you bring me a serious analysis that will show that in Slovenia the area of security is so poor and that it cannot be improved with other matters than by allowing the authorities to use these traffic data 24 months from its creation and that this would help to make them safer, more free if you want, and that there would be less crime. Now! But I don't have that. I don't have that. I don't have that. Once again, all our political representatives are saying how we are always doing better and similar, so of course I cannot accept this. We come from a completely different principle than our colleague Rugelj, for we simply say that, of course, I think, like all liberal Democrats and Democrats, that the elements that limit the freedom of individuals must be tolerated and allowed into our legislation only as much as is absolutely necessary. Minimum principle, minimalist principle. Not if we go from the other end to the other end as our colleague, Rugelj, that is, that all the possibilities must be made possible for people to be able to exercise more control if this proves necessary. This is for us, yes, a trip to the police state and we will not accept it and we will oppose it. Of course, it is a classic view that honest citizens have nothing to fear. In case, I would say that you can get this, or you can get how a completely third person, accidentally involved in a surveillance system with, say, a misprinted phone number; why would you then find out to an honest citizen how he communicated with a neighbor, with a wife, with a child, etc. What is this for, and why? That's exactly what to be afraid of. Just honest citizens must be most afraid of these things, for those who are not honest calculate that they may be pursued and will invent other methods and means to avoid it. And this is this problem, this is in some way not wanting either, or if you want the reverse effect of such legislation, which is to a certain extent, I admit, absolutely necessary, but only as much as is absolutely necessary, must be adopted. Six months is enough for us, nine months is the first compromise. I don't understand this government not to serve us with data that would say 24 months is absolutely necessary. I don't understand it, and for that I can't support it, and I will support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Just an answer. I think that, with regard to the reasons why the Government has set itself to such a deadline, we have already said a lot, it is no use to repeat ourselves again. Just two things. I am really sure that the security situation in Slovenia has nothing to do with this deadline, they have nothing to do with it. So if security conditions were to be better or worse, this deadline could be the same as it is. Why? Because we want adequate long-term data to be stored in terms of detection or in terms of helping to detect crime. Either it's one crime, or it's 100, or I don't know how many. The security situation with this deadline has no direct connection! I'm also sure the custody period has nothing to do with the possibility of abuse. Now, on the specific question of Mr Gantar, why we have given up. We didn't back out. In fact, if it reads the final and transitional provisions, this is Article 121, it is very clear that the provisions of Article 92 of this Law relating to the storage of data in telephone services shall apply on 15 September 2007. Provisions relating to the storage of data on internet access, e-mail and internet telephony and 15 March 2009. That's Article 121. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. If what the Minister has now said in this reply had nothing to do with these matters, then I think that the European Union directive would have only one deadline or not have it if it had nothing to do with it. Therefore, it is from 6 to 24 months for each country to determine for itself why 6 months and why 24. And once again, in our opinion, there is no reason for this deadline, unless the members of the coalition have made an analysis and we members of the opposition do not know it. And publicly and to the rest of us who are on some of the committees are spoken by representatives of the government coalition one, and you within the coalition, and I don't know what kind of meetings, you have other analyses. So I would ask you once again not to pressure us into discrediting the police in our discussions. Please, these vile words, insinuations and valuable judgments, please don't say them here. No police discredit today, at least I haven't heard a word in the National Assembly about police discreditation. And on this hand and these safekeeping and honest people. I think it's only been 16 years since we closed the book where the data was stored for 50 years. And for me, as some people say, one or 24 months, or six months, I don't care if it's one year or it's 50 years. And you know what views and what you had about whether we wanted to go back, just to shorten the deadline to 24, but this is the same story, I stress once again, there is no valid reason and analysis on the basis of which we should go to this deadline in Slovenia between the 25 countries of the European Union. [[...]] At least here in the National Assembly, not in the committees and commissions, but some of us are sitting on some of these committees. Just the opposite!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think it is important to increase security in Europe and Slovenia and to allow for the detection of organised and any criminal associations. Why, then, minimize the possibility of this detection, the possibility of providing security and, in some way, the mistrust and, in fact, the criminalisation of an institution which, in accordance with law and under control, somehow deals with such data, which is not actually a special night. Most of this data, at least as far as telephone communications are concerned, is collected for accounting purposes. And if we increase the time frame for storing this data, we allow it to be discovered that it is easier to detect and that it is more likely to detect such associations. Let's look at two cases, say, the English police, criminals would find it very difficult to detect all those who participated in the attack on the subway in London, because today it's almost impossible to operate operationally in a criminal sense if you don't use conventional communications. If you have the opportunity to leave these communications for 9 months before the crime or any other way, you use other means, it is said, but for more than 9 months you use normal communication, because they are already erased, you are only facilitating the business of such associations. And I do not understand in any way that it is not trusted for those who are under control and have to deal with these data in accordance with the law and that the possibility of criminal acts is minimised by the data actually collected. The American police were able to detect in a few hours who hacked into the payment system or another case that published illegal content on the Internet. In a few hours! But not with the data they collect, but with a lot of different data. And this guarantee of security, respect for the rule of law will have to be done in many other ways to make it possible for any police minister or interior minister or minister of justice to be able to do so. This security will have to be ensured. Otherwise, if such cases occur and these groups do not reveal themselves, these ministers and the Government will be responsible, and not you Members, who somehow, I don't know why, are thus minimizing the possibility of detecting such possible actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. Any other interests? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	It's a very short comment. Certainly it cannot be held, Mr Minister, that security conditions do not affect the duration of data storage. This Directive was created precisely because, due to the security conditions to detect terrorism and so on, the English mainly demanded an increase in the data storage time and so on. It is clear that the time frame for data storage has been changed due to the fact that the security situation was particularly poor or extremely critical due to terrorism in some countries, which is absolutely clear and cannot be denied. Secondly, I'm grateful for the explanation. The comfort is that actual internet operators and others will be deprived of these costs by 2009, and this needs to be welcomed. Of course, it is necessary to minimise this banalisation of the collection of these data. In fact, data have now been collected for the purpose of accounting. And when the relationship between the operator and the contracting authority was concluded, they changed into an impersonal form. And this is where they feed on. But it feeds, Mr. Stabe, a whole series of additional data that can strongly influence who you are, what you are, where you are, and so on. At the same time, I would say that it is pointless to talk here about the headlines of black chronicles, everyday magazines, when someone was discovered and so on and how it was discovered. One of the issues in this thick book, which was written after 11 September, is that, in preventing this act, they relied too little on field work and too much on electronic communications to bring them so-called "field work", field work, more data than monitoring electronic information, and that this was also one of the possible reasons that they could not prevent this event. Monitoring electronic tracks is popular among the police because it is easy because they think they are telling them more than they need. And that's why they like to do it and do it, and they abandon other forms of detection, which is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you. I don't see any more interest, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Second defense of the law on civil society. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister in charge of local self-government and regional policy, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to stress today before the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Municipal Government that the proposal does not bring new tasks to the municipalities or municipal authorities, but fully regulates the exercise of the competence of municipalities in setting up, organising and defining the work area and tasks of the municipal government, thus contributing to greater security and order in local environments. As we have already pointed out several times in the debates on the draft law, this law does not in itself bring new tasks to local communities, as the exercise of the duties of the municipal government in the field of ensuring security imposes other laws on the municipalities, in particular the Road Safety Act and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Your Honor! In doing so, I would like to reiterate, according to my assessment, the four most important solutions presented by the proposal for a law. From now on, municipalities will be able to organise a red tape in three ways: they will be able to set up a municipal office; two or more municipalities can set up an inter-ministerial office as a joint body of the municipal administration; the state will provide them with 50% of the funds for the operation of such a joint administration. If the municipality does not set up a municipal office or an inter-ministerial office, it shall determine by a decree on the organisation and work of the municipal administration that the duties of the municipal registrar shall be performed by the municipal editor as an authorised official. Most importantly, in my opinion, in this proposal for a law - this proposal requires municipalities to adopt a municipal security programme which covers the safety tasks laid down by laws and municipal regulations, as well as other tasks designated by the municipal council with regard to the assessment of the safety of the municipality. The implementation of the municipal security programme must be coordinated with the police programme. As long as it is not coordinated, it shall exercise the powers of the municipal authorities of the police. The municipal security programme is an instrument that requires cooperation between the municipalities and the police. Through the uniform training of the editors, the state will ensure the same standard of training of the editors throughout the country. According to the proposal for a law with an already existing training programme, there will be a need to implement a specific training programme already implemented by the municipalities, a programme that will enable the performance of public order and peace tasks. This part will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, as it does for the police, but with an adapted programme. The tasks of the municipal editors, as set out in the above-mentioned laws, require appropriate powers. The importance of the Ombudsman's powers, in particular his direct relationship with the individual, requires that the persons exercising those powers meet the conditions which, to the greatest extent, ensure the legality and proportionality of the exercise of the powers and, in this context, the protection of human rights and freedoms. Therefore, the proposal for a law gives a more precise view of the way in which these powers are exercised. Members and Members of Parliament, I am sure that the adoption and implementation of the Law on the Ombudsman will have a positive impact on the level of security and order in local environments, so I suggest you support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Franz Jazbec, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 10th regular meeting on 8.11.2006, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft Law on Municipal Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. Meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of the Government as proponents of the law, the Legal Service and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the political system, the opinion of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the opinion of the municipal inspectorate of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Municipality of Velenje and the municipality of Piran. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following qualified candidates have submitted amendments to the draft law: SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS, paragraphs 9, 20 and 23. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was also informed of the proposal by Members of the Committee's amendments to Articles 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 and 36, to be considered and adopted by the Committee as their own, and the proposal by the Committee's amendments to Articles 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 20, 26, 28, 29, 32, 33 and 35, prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services on the draft law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee went on to discuss the articles of the draft law to which amendments had been tabled. The Committee then adopted amendments to Article 9, Article 20 and Article 33 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, amendments to Articles 2, 17, 24, 26 and 34. The Committee did not accept the amendment of Ambassador Bojan Kontič to the remaining articles tabled by him. By rejecting the amendment to Article 28 of that proposal and Article 10 thereof, its amendments to Articles 12, 13, 14 and 16 have become irrelevant. Proposer Bojan Kontic withdrew his amendment to Article 35. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the proposal of the LDS Ambassador Milan Petk to Article 10 to be adopted by the Committee as his amendment. The amendment was not adopted by the Committee. By rejecting that amendment, amendments in the proposal of the LDS Ambassador Milan Petk to be adopted by the Committee as their own have become irrelevant to Articles 12, 13, 14, 16, 17 and 36. The Committee adopted the following amendments to paragraphs 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, two times to 16, 17, 20, 28, 29, 32 and 35. There was no discussion on the articles to which no amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 120 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law and recommends that the National Assembly adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 21 November 2006. We are moving on to Article 9 and to the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Pojbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Your Honor! We will not support this amendment of the Social Democrats in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This Article lays down the conduct of municipal editors and police officers when they carry out their duties and responsibilities together. The deletion or deletion of Article 9(2) would certainly result in frequent competition. Therefore, it seems important to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Nor will we support the proposed amendment in the New Slovenia Group. In any event, for certain tasks where the congregation editor and the police work together, it must be clearly recorded as to who is responsible or responsible. In this case, I think, and also in our parliamentary group, we believe that it is just as it is defined in the law, that the municipal editor follows the instructions of the police. In view of this definition, we firmly believe that there will be no problems. We will therefore oppose or vote against the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will certainly support our amendment in the parliamentary group, because that is why we have tabled it. The introductory report by the president of the working body showed that we have prepared several amendments that have been tabled in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. The vast majority of them have, of course, been rejected, and this is the practice of all other laws. Our aim was to improve the law to the extent possible in the second reading. Unfortunately, this has not been done, so try to put amendments and try to improve them at the second reading of the meeting of the National Assembly. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are unable to do so, because in articles where the amendment has not been adopted, the amended proposal does not allow the amendments of the groups of Members to be tabled. Otherwise, we would certainly like to re- table some of these amendments because we really believe they are good. The amendment tabled under Article 9 and providing for the deletion of the second paragraph of this Article 9 is particularly important because the relationship between the police on the one hand and the municipal authorities on the other, the executive branch of the authority on the one hand and the local self-government on the other. In any event, this is an intervention by the executive branch of the authorities into local self-government, and local self-government should, at least in my opinion, be untouchable in this case. The law is problematic or this article is particularly because of this, and we will be able to say more about this in other articles, because there is still a lot of nonsense in this law, and in particular that this area should be regulated by the Minister of Home Affairs, not by the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development when it comes to public order and peace. It is the police who should, in accordance with their powers, ensure public order and peace and not the officials. In this case, the responsibility of the State is transferred to the local community, and the responsibility of the police for the work is transferred to the editors. In this article, we say, however, if the officers and the police are in the same place on the same assignment, the main word is the police. Why, though, should the local authorities not be involved in this, if this is part of the local government? This is where you can most clearly see why this marriage is going on. It is about getting rid of the responsibility of the state and simply saying: For public order and peace, please have a nice law, a law on municipal government, and each congregation can take care of order in its own field. When we talk about this information then, but this is again the matter of the other amendments, the detention of an individual for an hour, and then you release him - I want to see that editor holding one hour, no policeman, and he will release the perpetrator of this act. I'd like to see what these consequences will look like then. There's a lot of unresolved issues in this marriage. So, in this amendment, we want to delete the second paragraph of this article, especially for the reason that it would be right for municipal officials to care for and protect municipal property and for the police to be in charge of everything else. As an example, we have set up a council in Velenj to improve the safety of citizens, and on this Council for the Improvement of the Security of Citizens, we have also analysed the functioning of the police as well as the municipal authorities. We have found that, above all, it would be necessary to meet the criteria of sufficient numbers of police officers at the police station and their equipment, and if these matters were necessary, even as prescribed, this Law on Municipal Government would hardly be needed. However, I am convinced that this law will cause only confusion and responsibilities, that the police on the one hand will again be responsible, that the police, on the other hand, will again be responsible, despite the article we have here written down, the municipal authorities will plead against the police and the police will plead against the municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm opening a new application circuit. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'll support this amendment, too. But I'd like to tell you the reasons why. In fact, when we think about how this process is actually going to proceed, let's say when there is a violation of public order and peace and, by chance, police officers and municipal officials work together, that means that the municipal editor is subordinated to a police officer, and it is necessary to know that the education and training of the municipal editor and his duties are required within the framework of the municipal government at the same level as that of a police officer, that the state through this law is subordinated to the state. And this is a thing that will lead every mayor and municipal council to think that the joint work of police officers and editors will not be possible at all, but we will avoid such cooperation. The fact is, what I said at the first reading will actually happen. No mayor will allow himself to receive direct instructions and orders from government officials if he gives a few to independence, to autonomy, to the independence of the congregation. There's no such thing. It never happens that government officials give direct instructions to municipal officials in one way or another. Although we have State inspection control over the procedures carried out by the municipality as delegated tasks of the State. We also have procedures when, say, the state authority declares the municipality or proposes decisions of the municipality to the Constitutional Court. All of this is true, but this is not about direct control and the adoption of direct instructions from state officials, this is about the rights exercised by individual state authorities in the area of control. As a result, I believe that this paragraph, which speaks of municipal officials being obliged to follow the instructions of a police officer, is a state official, a fundamental violation of the independence of the congregation. Therefore, the result will not be that municipal officials will not be subordinated to the police, but simply because the mayors will decide and give instructions to their officers, they will cooperate in the field with the police. For example, if they encounter violations of public order and peace, they will withdraw and call the police because the police are basically responsible for the resolution of violations of public order and peace, not municipal rule. That's how we're gonna do it, that's what we're gonna do. I warn you that such provisions will simply not come to life in practice because we will avoid such behaviour. We already have examples of police and municipal cooperation, but it is not about a policeman giving orders or instructions to our editor, but agree on how they will proceed, or not in the process of maintaining public order and peace, but in the transport process. I think it would be wise, very clever - now it is from the SDS Group of Members that several mayors and also from NSI - to think a little bit about it, to consult with their colleagues and decide to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have you returned your call? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I'd still be at this point. Otherwise, I would point out two things that, I don't know, are probably being forgotten on purpose. The main purpose of this law is to improve the security situation in this area where we are supposed to act and to introduce more order, that is the basic purpose of this. Now, as far as the warrant is concerned, I would like to reiterate. These tasks are already essentially entrusted to the municipalities with the other two laws, which were once again in this State Assembly in the past period, and one before. In this part, as far as this article is concerned, of course, it has also been partially corrected, but of course it is necessary to regulate the relationship, to know who and how it will take place in a particular situation, otherwise we will indeed have a chaotic situation. However, detailed regulation of these situations is provided for by the security programme itself, and if some agreements are already agreed in some municipalities between the police and the authorities, how they work, no one will likely break it. It is true, however, that the safety programme will need to be further worked out and arranged, or properly upgraded, in such a way as to make these things better, faster, and easier to run. Until these things are settled and in accordance with the law that has already been passed, and of course with the adoption of this law, the police are obliged to carry out the tasks of this order. However, I am sure that I have been the mayor myself for 10 years now, that the goal of the municipality or most municipalities is, in particular, to improve the situation in this area; and I am sure, of course, that it will then - and this is probably our common goal, both of the National Assembly and of us as well as of the Ministry of the Interior, which proposed the previous law, of course, to improve this situation. And I am sure that, in accordance with the solutions proposed here through the security programme, which is the basis of this law, these things will be addressed and settled in an environment where, of course, this objective will be achieved. As far as I know the mayor and, last but not least, we must be aware that this law has been in some way in the process for some time now, the solutions in this law are also some of the solutions that have actually been mediated, and the ideas, by the municipalities. It is true, however, that there are several different views on the implementation of these matters, but that is why this law is also flexible enough in this sense, so that virtually all these solutions can be implemented within the meaning of an increased order. This law also regulates the situation in those sub-legislative acts, where the situation is not regulated as far as the implementation of those provisions is concerned. That's how much at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thanks again for saying that. I really don't see any problem in the performance of certain tasks that the municipal editor would not follow the instructions of the police. I believe that this law is indeed the most important part of the municipal security programme; and the municipal security programme will certainly have to define all the works and all the coordination or coordination that will have to be defined in this municipal security programme. If the municipal security programme identifies the relationship between the local community, the programme documents of the Ministry of Interior or the police, then there will probably be no problems, as this is why we are also adopting this law. And I accept the Minister's explanation that certain of these matters are already being implemented in the local community, which is just an upgrade to that or we need to add to that area or to those particular segments where we are now creaking. And I think that if the municipal security programme is good, because everything will be defined, then I don't see this problem, as it was heard, "but now the police will be sharing tasks with the editors" or something like that. I did not understand at all the division of the executive branch and the legislative branch, because, in fact, the local community will also carry out operational matters on the ground, editor, I do not know what you thought the legislative branch of the authorities would do. It is true, however, that the legislative branch of government at local level will adopt a municipal security programme. Once again, I agree with what is proposed in the law under point 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you. Well, our amendment to Article 9 really makes sense, because if police officers were to manage their tasks by now, as they should, then it would not be necessary to adopt a new law, which is called the Law on Municipal Government, but we are actually introducing the municipal police. And it is the municipal police who are supposed to improve this situation, which, if I say so, the state police have failed to realize. Therefore, the delegation of competence that municipal officials or municipal police officers carry out tasks together with state police officers in a way that leads them to the state, restores the situation to the present situation and we will spend a lot of money and resources together, and I think that there will also be a lot of problems in the introduction and implementation of this service, then, by some provision, we will destroy everything at a time and return to the situation as it is today. In general, with regard to this law, I believe that it would be significantly better to transfer inspection services to the local level, as it once was, and thus to introduce and prevent action at the local level, but I think that the repressive authorities are still more effective at the national level. Even all the worst local problems, if we call them, or the biggest problems that occur locally, local police officers or police officers operating in that area are unable to solve them because of such and different arrangements, connections, the influences of relatives and I don't know what else can happen. Therefore, it is better that one day and somehow it be determined that state police officers appear at the local level in the area where they are not at home. At that time, these measures are significantly more effective and the safety of citizens comes to an appropriate level; otherwise, they all go hand in hand with some local agreements, interests, knowledge and very quickly inefficiency. This is another reason that somehow confirms my thought that it would make more sense to transfer inspection services to the local level and to keep these repressive authorities at the state level. In my view, problems could be tackled significantly more effectively and, above all, there would be no additional costs, as would be the case in this case, and additional coordination, and probably also ambiguity. However, I think the adoption of our amendment would eliminate at least one confusion in this jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! I must say that I am sorry that the Minister of Local Self-Government must explain the important law introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I will try to focus on my own, given that the debate on the amendments is only on the amendment that is before us. The fact is, this law introduces local police. If you read or have read the law, you will see that there is no significant difference between a congregation editor and a police officer in a congregation regarding jurisdiction. The civil editor shall be given the authority to use force to use the sprayer to use anything else. But the law also stipulates that the city chief must work with the police when it comes to matters governed by law. And someone in front of me mentioned that he was afraid there would be a conflict. I am not afraid of these disputes if the fact stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister is that there are clear distinctions between what the police should do and what the municipal editor should do. And it seems to me that there can be no conflict here, and this argument, why not support this amendment, is completely irrelevant. You know who's responsible for what kind of things. But according to our belief, the municipal officials of the Slovenian National Party should be the kind people in every municipality who will make sure that a tourist can come to Ljubljana to Ljubljana Castle, alert the police in accordance with the Police Act, where there is an offence, where something happens. But this is also the duty of every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore we do not need a job or a law. Anyone with a little moral consciousness is gonna call the police and say, you know, this is what's going on here and this. And we're giving these officers a bunch of powers that we're going to talk about a little bit later. And if this municipal editor has to be involved with the police, the police are financed from the state budget and have certain instructions, a certain circle for which we pay it, it is that he cares for order and peace in this country. And the fact is that this law causes or proves that the police in this country cannot maintain order and peace. That is why we give some local matadors a name, a right or authority to implement certain measures that they would not otherwise have. Look at the individual congregations, see who the officials in the congregation are! Let us take a look at how they began to develop and how they became employed. And finally, Mr. Minister, one question for you: how is funding taken care of? Individual municipalities complain that they will not be able to provide this money within the framework of the law and within the limits of the powers given to municipal officials. And the fact is, last week, the Law on Community Financing does not provide for or foresees money to the extent that the municipalities themselves cannot finance it. These are the facts. And if we compare them with the police, let us also let them be financed or financed by the Government from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we read the amendment to Article 9, we must certainly also read the contents of Article 7. This discusses the coherence of the programme between the municipal authorities and the police in the area where future municipal registries are also expected to work. Thirdly, we must also read Article 3 because we are talking about the jurisdiction of this congregation. I agree that we can also title municipal registries as municipal police, and that is nothing wrong with that. All over the world, we also know this level, if we can say so, of the municipal police. Above all, I do not understand a fellow parishioner from Velenje when he speaks of the task of municipal registrarship, I wrote down, the protection of property. No, it is there in the third indent of Article 3 - public property. Next, I do not understand this logic, the proposal to delete the second paragraph of Article 9, which governs the relations agreed under Article 7 between the police and the municipal authorities. Or according to yours, who are in favor of this amendment, then means that when they are together, on the basis of the program they will say "no, no, no, but you will not give the mayor handcuffs, but here I order because I regulate traffic on the street system" or "you will not inform the mayor that he parked on the lawn, for which 50,000 is at risk," I say, and so on. Given that the police and the municipal authorities or the municipality and the exposition or police station will agree on a security programme that is supposed to be harmonised and which has the contents of the Law on Municipal Government as well as the contents of the Police Act, the police powers, the agreed programme, and then incorporate the content of Article 3 into this programme, are said to be the powers of the department, I think it is necessary that in some article - and this is certainly Article 9, if they are implemented together, the Law on Police and the Law on Municipal Government - should be put in place a hierarchy. And this hierarchy here said, if they work together, that the municipal director does what they're going to find out together, what the police are going to say. But we can write it the other way around. I just don't know if that's the case. I don't see here the takeover of one or the other's powers, what colleague Breda said to interfere here with the jurisdiction of the local communities. No, no, no. The local community and the state, the real municipal authorities and the police will agree on a joint programme and if they will go to the field to implement this joint programme, then I think this hierarchy should be set up here. And that is how I understood the Minister's explanation when he said that it was necessary for this indent or this paragraph of Article 9 to remain in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you. It's still an interest. I'm opening the application. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The executive legislative branch of the government, which is precisely the problem, is that we are re-examined to the local level, at the local level of this sharp boundary between the legislative branch and the executive branch of the government there is not supposed to be, but I am not talking about the executive and legislative branch of government at the state level, I am talking about the executive branch of government at the state level and the local self-government, where the officials belong, and I have been talking about this controversy. As far as municipal and public property are concerned, of course, public property will be protected, all property will be protected, but I say that the problems are already that municipal officials or municipal property cannot or cannot protect it because of vandalism, because of other matters, and therefore I say that it would be good for municipal officials to take care of municipal property, for public property, and for general police and this should be the work of police officers. And here, when we talked about a police officer and a director in line with a programme to be adopted by the local community in cooperation with the local police, this is where this borderage of police officers - the editor and then the role of police in the joint work from the point of view of local self-government is disputed, at least that is how I assess it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I won't support this amendment. Otherwise, I have no problem with whether this law interferes with autonomy, with the autonomy of the congregations, and so on, with certain powers. Maybe some mayors have it, I wouldn't have a problem with that. Nor do I see any valid reason for the education of a director or a policeman to be the same or higher or lower, however. This is about the purpose and purpose of these police officers and officials working together and what the basic purpose of this law is. However, the fundamental purpose of this law is to improve the situation in the field of order, peace, security, property and other things, this is a fundamental objective and everything must be subordinated to this objective. And some things will certainly be well arranged in this congregation’s security programme. It is true, however, that police and editors will certainly find themselves in various situations in the performance of these tasks. And when it is possible to react quickly, decisively, then some debate, negotiation, negotiations, who will listen and so on, simply cannot be. Therefore, it must be clear and stipulated in the law that in certain cases it is the policeman who gives the instructions or the editor who has to act as stated in this second paragraph of this Article. Therefore, this amendment simply does not seem good to me, because then, if we delete this second paragraph, we would actually come into a situation where we start talking to each other and we put responsibility on each other or we avoid some responsibility, so it has to be clearly defined and that is why I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. It is interesting how we have diametrically opposed positions, but I see in this second paragraph of Article 9 this hierarchical relationship between the municipal officials and the police, and it follows that municipal officials do not have the authority of the police, and when they work together, someone has to decide how this procedure will proceed. It seems to me that this is an appropriate solution in connection with Article 3, which speaks of the tasks in the field of municipal government. That's exactly what it means for these county clerks not to become, I don't know, some of you were talking about some local sheriffs here. I don't know why. However, we already have a number of congregation officials, and people, of course, want more intervention when it comes to regulating the situation on public roads when it comes to protecting common property, private property, because in fact there is more vandalism and everything else in these areas from day to day. Of course, I don't personally see any big problem in this. Nor do I understand Mrs. Pecanova, who said, "Which mayor will allow the police, as a state authority, to give any direction in the field of local community?" Why not, if everyone works for the good of the population, why not? What is municipal administration and government, or do we then have 210 countries in the country or what? Well, not at all. This is a debate that leads nowhere. However, I would like to mention another matter that I heard from my colleague, Weber, to return the inspection services to the local level. I'll tell you here today, don't do this. We've already had this. I was myself employed at the inspection level when I was responsible to the President of the Executive Council, and when you actually shouldn't have done what my colleague Bajc used to say, because you were on the floor every four years, if you weren't right, they put you aside, but if you were right, you became an inspector again. Then it went to the state level because the inspection has to work in the whole country the same way, and the inspection is also a repressive body because the decision is being issued, and the decisions are always unilateral decisions and someone I have imposed on him must do so - and this level must be the same for the whole country. Nor do I recommend that we put this on the landscape, which must remain at the state level, as regards the operation of inspection services. The second is the promotion, technical matters, secretaries and so on, it would not go down, it is not well arranged at the moment and it needs to be slightly corrected, unified, aired. However, as far as hierarchical responsibility is concerned, of course we cannot agree with this and today, here, right now, on this proposal, I say that this would be the worst proposal we would accept in this National Assembly if we returned to the operation of inspection services in 1995. However, I say this from experience because I have tasted it on my own, as well as other colleagues, as it was when I told the local authorities, if I may say so, I was responsible for my decisions, which are often not popular. I think that colleague Weber knows that, and somehow I would like to make that decision again, and I was one and now I am another, and I say that such a solution would not be good and I would never vote for it in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Weber responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	If we're trying to solve local problems. My basic position was that the State should carry out repressive matters, and then the local community should carry out those which are of a more administrative nature, if I may call them, even within the inspection services. On this, Comrade Sok, what you say would be happening at the local level, that someone would ask inspection services to act in one way or another, is happening today when they are under the responsibility of a single ministry. Completely identical relationships are or are significantly less transparent than they are at the local level. What is the biggest problem of inspection services right now is that these services are not carried out in a uniform and equally quality manner throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. These are areas where they are not adequately covered by the individual ministry and there are many problems because these activities are not carried out as they should, if they were present as they were, at a local level. Acting was significantly more effective than it is today, but we will not get too far away from this topic when we talk about it. My main thesis on this issue was that we do not need repressive authorities in the municipalities or that there may be even greater abuses after this, Mr Sok, and not only of administrative nature. I think it's really better to think in this direction that we have administrative measures at the local level, and repressive at the national level, which is what I came up with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support this amendment either. After all, it's a partnership of two levels. Both the legislative and state level and the operational state level is hierarchical over the municipal level, which has a similar structure: the legislative part, the municipal council and the executive part, the mayor - his administration. This isn't about autonomy, because it's just another area of thinking. And if a municipal editor discovers certain matters that are more in the hands of the police, there will be mutual cooperation and, under the direction of the police, police officers and vice versa, if the police discover what is more within the authority and responsibility of the municipal director, he will inform the municipal authorities. I don't think the police are actually meant to deal with the detection of those who don't clean dog poop and who dump garbage in nature, but are more dedicated to the more difficult tasks of detecting and persecuting those acts, people and groups that can lead to crimes, more serious crimes. Here, however, congregation officials can help the police with their information and sometimes by forcible detention and so on. In fact, in this law, the police are burdened on one side of some of the issues that we have thought should be handled by the police so far. I think that the police will have to become more qualified, reduce the number of likely ordinary police officers and start effectively detecting more difficult cases of law violations. Civil editors are now also given more demanding tasks, which are for some of us or for some municipal officials will in fact require additional training and training if they actually want to use physical force. I hope that, with the change of the Constitution and other amendments to the laws, perhaps even at the provincial level or at the municipal level, it will be possible to leave these more difficult matters to security agencies, it is true to authorised companies that have and operate in the area and can also do these things most effectively, unless we believe that municipal officials can be qualified and are constantly qualified to carry out these more demanding coercive activities. If you'll excuse me, Mr. President, because you've allowed it before, about the inspections. I believe that inspections in Slovenia are ineffective precisely because they are too locally linked to the same entities that have a strong impact on their behaviour, these people are like people and like people under great pressure. In order to achieve in some way the objectivity of these people's actions, not as exposed persons and to be able to act more effectively in different parts of Slovenia, from my experience and also from talking to these inspectors, I can conclude that they simply do not act because they are under too much pressure; not to say what kind of pressure is being exerted on these people. There will also have to be something effective done here. Otherwise, I support the purpose of this law despite some fears. I think that this will significantly increase the security and effectiveness of preventing these "normal" crimes, which are defined by municipal decrees and also by state regulations. In a way, the police will be burdened with this or at least expectations will be lower; everyone will be able to devote more attention to their level of responsibility and competence. I will oppose this amendment and others like it. However, I hope that the additional requirements of the municipal editors can also be met in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is what it is. I'll support him, of course, and we'll support him in the client. Although I must say that in 14 years of parliamentary work it would be difficult to find a more foolish marriage than this. I think it's total "kretenism" and it's basically about taking a sample of the former SA departments, that's "Sturm Abteilung" and the SS, which in the same way started in history first to act and regulate order in cities, first of all in Munich and then on. Or if we take an ex-Soviet check, which then evolved into the NKVD, exactly the same way. Let's read history! History is the one teacher we should learn from. I can only see here that some of the writers aren't, let alone read history. I don't know what we're going to do with everything, with these municipal officials who are about to be given police powers, and I'm asking you where we are! They'll have 166 hours to study. That's just enough to make some quick course, how you break someone's arm and your knee. That's what they're gonna do. That's three weeks, that's Schnellkurs! And now I ask you, given the wishes of the gypsies in public administration, whether this means that the unemployed Gypsies will now be unemployed, you will first learn to beat people up and lock them up, and then these gypsies will get a job as editors and legalize their operations. For after an hour, when this ruler has the right to bend someone's hand and stand on his neck, he will be able to do with him what he will. What's going on with this law is total nonsense, but we're in the 21st century, and what are you doing, Mr. Minister? It is true that the basis of this law was prepared by Mr Bohinc. And I understand if the ex-communist wanted to introduce something like this. But, "Madam Santa," the government has changed. Are there still the same people in the same places, except that they switched two, three positions at the top. That can't be it, can it?Oh, my God! What are you gonna do with these guys? Give 'em a quick shot, if the gypsies have a fast shot at home, give 'em a light if they like. Tell them you'll be teaching them in the first week, shooting short-shots at three rounds, but if he makes a mistake, he'll go to the mayor's office to defend himself if he kills someone. That's what's in the marriage, too. If the red boy kills someone in his line of work, he's gonna go stand up for the mayor. Where do we live? And when you say, colleagues, that congregation officials are also in other places around the world, only if we take those cities do they have 2, 3, 4, 5 million inhabitants, and those officials do not have the same powers as our editors will. These village specials, who will be from those public institutions where they went free of charge on food now get uniforms and let them go with "Schnellkurs" on the road to beat up old women who will walk out of the walkway. Please! I mean, funny stuff, really funny stuff. And these local sheriffs will then, say, identify themselves. How will a local sheriff who is likely to be semi-written or illiterate, perhaps even in alcoholic couples, how he will identify an Englishman, for the first time - he does not speak English, even in three weeks you will not learn it, then he does not know the legislation, he does not know that we can travel within the EU without the travel documents you require here or on what you attach identification to, and he does not even know that in England, Britain, for the time being, they do not have personal cards. And a man will come here and what will happen. The editor will see one who will speak a little strangely and turn around in front of the store, because he will be looking for someone to explain to him in English where he is going to go, say where the Ljubljana chair is, our editor will burn on it, he will take the sprayer, he will spray him in his eyes, he will almost die, then he will break his left hand, he will kick him in the middle. And then what happens? Then he'll stand on his neck or squeeze him behind his neck in that so-called "swiss bone" that he'll exhale, then he'll tell the mayor: you know, Mr. Mayor, because I didn't know what it was, but he was so weird, he looked so weird that I had to lay my hands on him. This is the law that we are discussing in the National Assembly. Yeah, "pork fix," one wonders if we're still normal and sober, if we're not anymore. And, gentlemen, if you think of such laws as to win the next parliamentary elections, you're wrong as hell. The LDS and the United List growl in your moustache because they think, wonderfully, more of these laws, and then the victory is absolutely ours. But I can't think that you're doing this on purpose to win others, I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, I accept your juicy dictionary as a source of perhaps boring debate. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. What the honourable Member last said is not in law or word. However, I did not turn myself in for that reason, but I would also like to explain some things about the issues raised in the debate. It should be stressed once again that this law does not bring any additional tasks under the rule of law. For the first time, as far as orderliness is concerned, tasks are defined within individual municipalities by means of sub-legislative acts and this part is regulated. In the second part, however, this National Assembly, with one law in this mandate, has already assigned tasks to editors, in a way that is not clear at this point in time, that these tasks can be carried out by both the police and the authorities. That's what this part is about. And we are simply regulating this area with this law, the right way to carry out these tasks. And nothing else. However, as regards funding, which has also been mentioned, I would like to point out in particular that in this part we cannot talk about the classical transfer of tasks to municipalities in terms of funding, since there are several areas related to funding under this Title. Firstly, this part of the tasks already being carried out by the municipalities are actually already providing these funds for editorial services, since the editorial services are practically already in the majority, in particular in larger municipalities, we already have. In the second part, through the organisation of the registrar itself, 50% of the funds provided for the functioning of the so-called joint bodies are established. As regards the new Law on the Financing of Communities, these tasks are also covered through the mediocrity system itself and will be taken into account in the future when the average will be calculated at the time of the adoption of annual or then budgets, and there will also be agreements between the state and the local level, i.e. local self-government, municipalities. As a result of the costs incurred through the problem of vandalism, if you would like to, in fact, with editorialism, which we expect in this part, costs are in some way reduced, which means that indirect municipalities in this part save certain funds. And as far as education is concerned. The existing part of education has already been needed. This was, for example, an education related to the conduct of administrative procedures. That part of education, which I repeat in some way to carry out that part of the tasks entrusted to them, the other legislation should be carried out and, in fact, the State takes over through the education process at the Ministry of the Interior. Maybe just one more thing. The question was, "How do I ensure that property is protected?" These are a number of problems across the municipalities, we all know that, and that is why these things will also need to be further addressed through, I repeat, the security programme. This program is the basic one that will address these things, which is actually a real problem. For example, if we have a cofounder on one side of the country, on the other hand, let us say one congregation at a high school, how we are going to separate now, which part of this work is municipal and which part is national. Of course, it is also necessary to provide protection or to ensure that damage, often done, is not done there. Once again, with regard to the resolution of this law, we have been led in this direction to increase security on the one hand, to introduce more order into individual congregations and also to the initiative of the congregations themselves. It is also clear from the current situation that, of course, municipalities, mayors cannot avoid responsibility or get this responsibility in cases where these things are happening, let us be realistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you. Since there are several deadlines, I am reopening the possibility of applying for a debate, we are still under the first amendment to Article 9. Mr. Koren, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'd be very happy if we didn't have to adopt this Law on Community Editorial. If the situation in Slovenian cities were such that it would not be necessary in our municipalities. I must say that, on the one hand, I agree with my colleague Bojan that the congregations are forced to have this red tape because the police, with the organisation and the number they want, simply cannot guarantee the situation in the municipalities as we would like. I would like every debater or Member to ask himself why we need to have the police, why we need to have a red tape job, and what we can do to address the reasons for this service. Bojan said - an increase in vandalism, a violation of public order and peace. Right, go on Saturday morning at 7:00 a.m. and you'll see what's going on in the cities. I know we're not going to solve this thing, maybe we're going to ease it a little bit, but we're not going to solve this problem. We have to look for reasons why this is happening. I will not support this first amendment, because I think that, given the situation as we have it, this cooperation is necessary and that it must be clear from the law if a joint task is to be solved when they are in the same place for the same thing as the policeman and the editor to take over the domestic "command" officer. There's been a lot of talk about powers before, and, speaking of which, I'm going to say a word about it. Unauthorized editors - I don't see the real point again, just by putting the leaves and the parking tickets 10 centimeters across the line, which they're doing right now, I don't think it makes any sense. Thus, the powers must be given, and I shall retain, in particular, the right of the redundancies to retain the offender of a crime or a crime, I think it is the task or duty of every citizen, of every citizen, if he is at the place where the crime or offence takes place. I think that everyone in his conscience is already trying to keep this offender from committing a crime, and if we write that this is the task of a municipal director, I don't see any unnecessary matters either. I stopped here mainly because then a lot of amendments apply to that. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Well, the first amendment to Article 9 cannot solve the problems that the law has drawn up. So not because problems are conceptual and because they can't be solved. That's why I don't support the law either, and I don't support this amendment, because it doesn't change anything anyway. However, it is clear and we are trying to demonstrate the logic of why we are pursuing this law and why the solutions that are proposed are what they are. Minister Žagar has repeatedly stressed, but I appreciate his efforts to make a difference in the field of local self-government, but he stressed that he did not actually invent anything with this law, and I agree with that. This law is a cowardly egg in his nest, and others have set him up with other laws, and they have already predicted that this will happen in another marriage. And when some of us opposed the Law on Public Order and Peace, we warned that this would come back with a phased delay, and today we have it here. And today, the mistakes that were made at the time are repeated. Someone else has made them, and now, unfortunately, the government service for local self-government only has to carry them out. Why did this happen? See, once again, read what the introduction says, two reasons are mainly that we have this marriage, so written by the drafters, I quote now; the first is that the police are not all too present in our real life, in our present life, which is undeniably true, which the minister also admits and knows that it cannot eliminate and therefore imposes this on someone else, local communities and municipal officials. And another, it says, is that there is no more trust among people in this service, in these institutions. That too is true, but local officials of this trust in the police and other institutions that should pursue crime, as it says, will not recover. That's the wrong grade again. Next thing. The goal, which we repeat so many times, of what the purpose of this law is, of course, good. We are all in favour of increasing general security, public order and peace and so on. But look, it was just said - and it seems to me that I have to intervene - it has been said that the goal is good and that we will therefore submit all resources to this goal. Yes, for God's sake, we're not gonna talk like that in this House anymore! Not all funds are allowed to achieve certain objectives. And because the concept is wrong, with a good goal we choose the wrong means, the wrong individual steps, and that is why we will not be able to achieve this goal that we want to achieve - the goal of greater public order, peace and security - to achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Experiences are clearly different in Slovenia, in the municipalities, with both jobs, whether it is the police or the directorship where they already have it or where it is likely to be introduced into their local communities in the future. If I refer to this article, which some say is so persistently inappropriate, my colleague Jelinčič obviously has problems with such organs and a little allergy to them. This is his personal experience, and I have very good experience with the police, thank God for now, so there are no problems both at the national level and at the local level. And I must say that in partnership, the mayor-municipal police are very well involved, especially with the common objective that we both have - the care of greater security in a certain area. The fear of the police and this synergy of the militia-police force, in order not to combine the power for the good of the purpose that this law has, is over. I strongly agree with my colleague Rezman, indeed, we have already inherited this. This is where we voted, the law we have, and as a result, we try to regulate things that have already been adopted prematurely. But it's true that the goal and the way to do this is good for me. The congregation that wants to organize this in one way or another is connecting with the local police, and this is clearly referred to in Article 7. Article 9 tells us who in some story is the one who will eventually judge. And I think it's only right for the police to judge it, not the warden. Why would we delete that? I think in these specific moments, which I don't think will be that many, someone will have to judge. And in this case, it seems quite right for the police to judge this, because it is an institution, an institution that has more than a editorial service in a local community. That's why I don't know what's so wrong here. The fear of this local police is, in my opinion, superfluous. But I believe that, as I said, experience can vary in different places. But my experience, where I come from, is very positive. That's why I'm saying the police do what the law says and sometimes more. And thank God! "More" we will now do with our red tape work and try to bring it together for the benefit of our citizens, our property, greater security, order and everything that goes with it. I have no problem with this being some kind of repression, a fear of the police, before some of the mayoral powers he's going to get with this law, I don't have that feeling, and it doesn't burden me, and that's why I think deleting this second paragraph is unnecessary, inappropriate. The matter is well set up, it has its purpose, the performance of this service, cooperation with the police, and the appointment of the right people to the right place is another story, which this law of course does not write. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I only came forward because of this, although I know it would be best to ignore this noble debate, the tract, the demagogies and the insults, if all those who do not oppose this law are "moved". That was amazing, and perhaps the best thing to do is to ignore and just smile. I don't think we should let this happen. Mr Member Tribal Victory has not even given an argument why he thinks this marriage is stupid and that we are all assholes who do not oppose it. I will now advise him only what he told his neighbor across the street yesterday to get out of the hall, give up and calm down. That was also one of his insults yesterday. And I think that such debates and such debates are indeed no place for this House. And let Mr. Victory Tribal think of himself a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	I wanted to do the procedure earlier, and you didn't give me your word. I just wanted to comment on Mr Jelinčič's way of discussing it and I would like him to represent the Slovenian National Party, if he is already begging in Parliament, to do so at least in Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. We're opening a new round to report to the debate. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Very briefly, given the words spoken by my forerunners. You know, the word is not a horse. The word is not a horse. And if someone says what he thinks, with words that are even understandable to you, then he's done a good job, believe me. More about what has been said, however, trust me that we will tell you about the following amendments, where you will probably either go out or have lunch, because you will not be able to adequately represent the position you have previously submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you. With the debate of my colleague Zagorec, I conclude the debate on Article 9. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 10. Amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. We have five MPs registered. The first one has the word Milan Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you, President, for your word. I will not be as graphic, and I will not use a dictionary as much as our colleague Victory Tribal, but in principle in Liberal Democracy we agree with the point of his performance. So, before us is an unnecessary law, a law that arises as a result of certain events in society, in some environments, but to write such a law as this, because the circumstances in society are such, and so bad is of course not worth it. By this logic, we would expect the government to come before us today with the Village Guards Act because village guards are happening. And because that's what's going on, you'd expect to come with the Village Guards Act sooner or later, and that's what's going on in this procedure and in this investment of the law that it is, it bothers. Well, one more time. We are aware that there are deviations in society, deviations from some normal life, order and rules in society, but we have institutions set up, these institutions must of course work. As they work, however, solutions are sought in the tasks proposed by this law, imposed by the municipality and delegated to it the responsibilities of the repressive authorities that have this function, which even have the largest number of employees per 1,000 population in Europe. Our police have the largest number of employees in the police force per 1,000 inhabitants, but apparently they are at work and tasks that they do not really need, they need another area, and this is the area of this law. In his opening remarks, the minister said that he was not bringing new tasks. I think it's manipulation, Mr. Secretary. Of course, because we have passed or because you have passed a preliminary law, in which, of course, the Liberal Democracy has pointed out the consequences of this law, so that this law will become barely operational with the Municipal Government Act, you have taken the view that it does not bring about new tasks. They are made by that law, and they are realized in real implementation of this law and because it realizes them, it also carries out some new obligations, some new financial obligations of the municipalities, and again, according to my opinion, you claim partially that this is covered by the Law on the Financing of Communities. At the same time, you are talking about how municipalities receive additional funds, how they are increasing them, how they are improving their economic or financial position, while at the same time this improved economic and financial position, which protects new tasks - and these are new tasks. These are at least for me the facts that are difficult to dispute, and I think the government here actually manipulates the National Assembly. On what and what are we amendments to? We are therefore amending Article 10, which, in the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh indents, brings certain tasks to the editors who, by all logic, have the authority of the police, are beyond the ability of such organised editorial service under this law as you think or want to organise, because it is a task provided by the police under the Constitution. It is the police who must, by the Constitution, guarantee human rights and the foundation of freedom in the field of public order, the protection of life, health and property - everything. So these are the tasks the police must have in a single area of the country, not that this is left to municipalities which, within their material capabilities, will carry out this activity very differently, and we will come to some unequal position that citizens of Slovenia will not be in an equal position, because the municipalities are simply unable and will not be able to guarantee the same level of protection of the three rights guaranteed by the Constitution and realized by the police, among others. However, our feeling is that when a sieve is introduced in Article 10, or the principle, or the task of a security review, i.e. seizure of items, detention of the perpetrator and the use of means of locking and tying, these are the tasks of the police, which, while receiving the municipal registrar, we can no longer say registrar, but according to our opinion, the local police. Apparently, the motioner - encouraged and, as Mr Rezman says, with a cowardly egg, stabbed the minister, who should not be bothered, should therefore be scolded to talk about it and propose such laws to the Minister of the Interior, who, at our House of Representatives, ensured that in Slovenia, as long as he is Minister, the local police will not. Well, he's not really going to introduce it, but another minister is going to introduce it, and that's the cowardly egg that the Minister of the Interior gave him. So if we talk about this red tape and continue with the notion that it's really not a red tape or a local police force, it seems to me that the situation has arisen especially after these elections, when some of you have received a significant number of mayors. These mayors will slowly become in addition to everything they have under our legislation - a mistake was made by my judgment 12 years ago when it was given to the mayors with direct election; such that you simply cannot do anything to him - and by this order in fact, or by this form of law he still has the authority to become really slow local sheriff and such a local sheriff you really can no longer do nothing; and political responsibility, even less, to guarantee him responsibility in this area of public order and peace, because he will have in his hands his right to act alone through the police and under a law that is not consistent or good enough. Therefore, we think it would be wise, Mr Minister, to reconsider whether you are already insisting in law that at least those powers under this law should be withdrawn, which show that the first powers of government are inadequate and that its powers in Article 10 are inappropriate in these paragraphs. I have already illustrated on the Committee on Local Self-Government some cases of what is going to happen, and once again, I want to say what will happen in that part of the jurisdiction that the municipal editor has when he has to hold the perpetrator for an hour before the police arrive, that is the dictates of this article. So, whether these two guys are gonna go to one coffee and chat and wait for this police or fight or fight or what I know what you're gonna do. This editor and this editorial service, under certain circumstances, will not even be able to contain such groups of perpetrators or individuals who will do so. At night, when people leave nightclubs, especially when young people leave nightclubs, they can't keep such municipal editorial work for an hour, they just don't have a piece, they don't have equipment, they don't have the resources, they don't have the cars to keep them in. So what they're going to do is they're probably going to blow up mass, maybe some victim is going to stay weaker, and this one's going to be taking traces of this part of such a trained public servant or editor. For this reason, we propose to those coalition Members who have also had experience as mayors who have experienced this story of protection of public order and peace in the municipal and local environment, that they be aware that, in fact, by introducing a municipal director, by introducing such a handicapped or incompetent authority and such institutions will not change the security situation, and that they will be more vague, and that when we talk about the previous article, those powers will simply not be exchanged, I may not know who is talking about what security system or agreement these authorities will accept, that these circumstances will not be easily controlled. If someone had previously been offended and affected by the words of Mr Victory Jelinčič; it is true that he presented this matter in his own graphic and verbally specific way, but he spoke, so I understood that the law was 'kretenism'. That's how it was, and between us, I don't know if some of you have come to know each other, but this is your problem, but we haven't been able to see that we're "moves," but the law has declared "kretenism". I didn't use that word. However, I think that the law is inadequate, unnecessary and that the Government should withdraw it and go to complement the law on the police, where it should be introduced, according to our opinion, a special, special part of the police, local police with jurisdiction in the local field, but with the same tasks and rights and the ability to ensure the security, order and peace and those rights that I spoke about earlier, in the area of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you, too. The Minister has signed up for the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. I will try to explain the situation we have in this area at this time in Slovenia and what we want to achieve by this law. By means of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, several articles of this Law are now transferred to the congregations. They may be carried out at this time either by the municipalities through the municipal authorities or by the police. When this law is passed, the municipalities no longer exercise these powers, but they are carried out by the police until the threshold of the safety of the individual congregation is adopted. Through the security programme, however, the municipality will be able to agree, in accordance with an agreement with the police, on the scope of the tasks that will be carried out by this body, which is in this law and also in the law on peaceful transport. The scope of the tasks is in this and through the security programme these things will be demarcated. Thus, we do not tolerate anything further to the congregations by means of this law. Remarkably the other way around. By means of this law, we restore all these powers, which are already in some way imposed on the municipalities or the situation is that there is, in fact, no delimitation, we put them back on the police force and through a security programme where the police and the municipality agree on the scope of individual tasks in this area, to determine the extent and part of those tasks that are actually carried out in the individual areas of each municipality. And it is out of the interest of the congregation that this scale will be in the individual congregation, and that depends on the size of the congregation, on the interest, on the specific situation. And that's why the law is so flexibly written. I wanted to explain so much. Yes, we are aware of the situation we are in. At this point, I repeat, the tasks have already been entrusted to the municipalities through, I repeat, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and through the Road Traffic Safety Act, which has already been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I agree with the Minister that tasks are divided into other laws. When these laws or their amendments were adopted, we noted what this would mean and, as a result, this law could be a response to the decisions taken at that time. I can even agree with the minister. The problem is, as has been said several times before, that this law is still weak and we have not improved it in the second reading on the home labour body to this extent so that today, at least in our parliamentary group, we can support it. I will definitely support or vote in favour of the LDS amendment, and I think my colleagues and colleagues as well. The amendment, which deletes the security review of persons, seizure of items, detention of the perpetrator of the offence and criminalization as a type of authorization in Article 10, is certainly on the spot, because, as we have already said, it is necessary to read the whole law and if we then go ahead and see what we have actually deleted, we can find that it has already been discussed that this sphere has already been discussed that it will be a clerk, a congregation editor who will determine who will find out who by his conduct and conduct at a particular place or at a certain time raises suspicion that he will endanger human security or property. I do not think that municipal officials are qualified to do this, that it will also be difficult to train them, and that it is the task of the police and that the police must carry out this task, not that this task is passed on to municipal officials and that the officers will be the ones who will find out who is suspicious that something can be done or who is not. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account a purely simple human factor. As for education, I have already said, people must be educated, and they must have experience to do so, and there must be another feeling to do so. When we are talking about the detention of the offender of the offence and the offence and the deletion of this from the mandate of the municipal director, it is necessary to bind this to Article 13, at least so it is in the footnote under this amendment that this is in connection with Articles 12, 13 and 16. It says here that the detention referred to in this paragraph or this detention may last until the arrival of a police officer, but for a maximum period of 1 hour. So we expect that the director of someone he thinks has committed an act that requires police action will hold back. Those who do this act are not exactly nice people and are not ready to talk to the editor and to discuss how long it takes to wait for the police, or as colleague Friday said we would even go to the nearest buffet for coffee. It's not going to be like that, it's going to have to force them to wait for the police. What does that mean exactly, I don't know if they're gonna be chained to a road lamp, maybe a tree, or maybe we're gonna use some dumpsters where these people are gonna wait for the police to come, and then the police won't be here for an hour, and after 1 hour, they're gonna have to let this guy go. Well, then I'd like to see what's going on in this place and in the end - who the police are going to find chained to a lamp or a drug or a tree. This is funny now, but in practice, once implemented, it will prove to be a very serious issue. So these powers do not make sense to the editors to grant a security review of the person seized of the items. Besides, what's going to happen to these seized objects? They turn themselves in to the police, the police continue to manage them, or the mayor will gather them in his office and put them on the shelves? The issues are more than serious, although at first glance I agree with my colleague who, in the previous round, discussed that the matter can be funny at certain times, but when this is done in practice we will run into a number of problems, innumerable uncertainties, on the countless decisions of individuals who will not only be based on an expert opinion of what they would expect, but, as I have already said, there will be a human factor, including fear, also vague powers, and a host of problems will arise as a result. That is why I myself support the LDS amendment to delete this from these powers to the municipal editors, but the law is also bad, and I agree with those who criticise it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Willy Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you. I also think there are enough reasons to support the amendment. I'll try to move too, why, perhaps even with some sort of parable, because now it's kind of a habit. However, first of all, I would like to point out that it is not the way it was intended to be shown that the congregations would be able to organize the congregation’s editorial service, the interagency editorial service, or have their municipal editor; they will have to have this, as the law states, there is no choice whatsoever that the mayor may or will not be able to make a decision. Article 19 even states what happens if an act is abandoned, it is referred to in Article 19. This article, which we are now talking about, has written down the powers that it must exercise in relation to Article 3 where the area of work is defined and in connection with the Law on Public Order and Peace, which we have long accepted - some of which we have refused - imposes certain obligations. The second thing I would like to say is that the problem will be what Mr Minister denies is that the tasks that are binding on all directors in large and small municipalities, because the officers in small municipalities will not be able to choose: this is what we will do and something else will not. Well, they'll have to do everything. And now I can imagine, let's say, in my congregation, which is so much more average, which I don't know how big a young girl, cute, cute who was out of work, went to the "schnellkurs" for a community desk, then she'll have a problem and call me on her cell phone because she doesn't even have 50 kilos, and she doesn't even have a seminar on martial arts: "What should I do, mayor?" Don't let me not be chained, don't let me keep what to do with him now?" Well, there will be absurd situations. And sanctions. I didn't find them in the marriage. Where are the sanctions for when mayors, those who will not do so - how will we be sanctioned? We may just have to propose such a law, or we will have to be penalised in some other legislation, perhaps it will be said, that the mayor who does not perform editorial services will be sanctioned by dismissal, because he does not implement the law that is "stupid" if it is adopted. And I would like to point out that in article 19 you impose additional tasks on municipal secretaries and mayors, he will have to set up a commission to fail to perform some of the tasks that this law gives him, and he will even become some kind of municipal judge. [[...]] However, I would suggest, or consistently, that this amendment, which speaks of deleting these, would then be implied in Article 14, because similar nonsense is written there, but it probably failed because it also says that there is a need to click and I do not know how else to function, which I say is what I am opposed to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Speaking of parables, a respected colleague from New Slovenia, it is true that every horse is not looked at in the teeth, not at all at the end of "fowsh". But if I go back to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10 - read it, read what powers you give to the editors! Some of you used to fall from chairs, including the minister of laughter, when the distinguished colleague of Victory Jelinčič presented in a very graphic and clear way, so clear that even you understood him from the ruling coalition what would happen. But now we're there. That's it. Look at the powers you give to city officials. Among other things, it says in Article 10, paragraph 1, "retention of the perpetrator of the offence". So when I park the car wrong, I'm going to have a city guard, because it's very hard for him to see me, keeping me for an hour. He's gonna hold me off for an hour! "The use of physical force" -- and that's this "swiss," that's that "swiss reception," an hour can hold me. You know what he does to me in an hour with one of those Swiss men, and he chokes me! And if you keep looking forward to who he has to tell. Within 24 hours, it's said, 24 hours, I can lie there and he'll call the mayor. In 24 hours, he has to report that he's injured, has the authority to hurt him or even kill him. Yes, you support such nonsense! You support such nonsense. And the only jurisdiction besides the warning that I agree to have this authority; the oral order is no longer clear to me, because I don't know what the editor will give me or any other citizen in this country, is to buy these editors a 1,000-dollar mobile card, so much as they see one problem, a violation, and all that is within the purview of the police, who are not doing their job, to call the police to finally start doing what the law gives them. That's 1,000 tolars in three months, believe me, they won't call again. And who are the greater ones, and who are the congregation officials? From all the congregations where these city dwellers exist, we know that these are the people who started their careers on the job market. So, through public works, we hired them, then we trained them for four, five hours, learned alphabets, writing, filling out forms, and that's it. Today we add 166 hours of additional education to enable them to use physical force - you all agree with me that the physical force is a fracture of the hand, this grip, these captures, a blow to the knee - the means of inclusion, it is said, will be able to push the cuffs, the tied and the gas sprayer. Yeah, and we got a gun, and we got cops! And all those who spoke of a demarcated area of action read the second paragraph of Article 10: "Unless otherwise specified by this law, the provisions of the Police Act apply to exercise the powers of caution, security review, temporary seizure of objects and the use of physical force." So we're equating them. And when do they have these powers? Article 12 - "when someone raises a suspicion that it will endanger the safety of people." Yes, it can also be for the city editor who speaks English at 11 p.m. in Ljubljana on the Prešeren Square. That's what you support! You support such nonsense and such a "asshole" law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Your Honor! The powers of the municipal editor shall be in accordance with his duties. Without the powers laid down in Article 10, he may not perform the tasks laid down in the law. Among other things, it is a mandate that constitutes an intervention in human rights. Therefore, this authorisation is limited to specific cases by law. The applicant's argument that the municipalities have neither adequate personnel nor equipment to exercise those powers is rejected in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The draft law lays down, in Articles 20 and 21, the conditions for the performance of the duties of the municipal editor, training and the examination of knowledge. This also takes into account the new powers in the draft law. The law also provides for a transitional period during which managers will take part in training for new tasks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not support and support this article of the law. In particular, I would like to point out that talking about the introduction of local police is, in my opinion, a little ridiculous, irresponsible and, I am sure, a lot of deception between citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you, too. As I see the desire for the debate, I am opening a new round of debaters. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four debaters, the first has the word of Member Victory Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, we're at the 10th. I, too, support this amendment, although I think it's a bit of a "butt" in the 10th article. Let me show you what this thing is supposed to look like. It's supposed to be done by these editors. First, it says here that an oral order is required, then a security review of the person and the seizure of the items. That's what they say. Someone's going to see an interesting woman who might be looking for something on her purse. Of course, with the fight against terrorism, this woman will be taken by a warlord for the first time, because he will not know in accordance with Article 13, what he is pursuing under official duty, or on a proposal, because he will not know the CAP, because he will not know the penal code, he will be stuck: "I am the law!" And he's gonna throw it on the floor. Of course, with special grips he will shake her hand and, according to the seizure of the items, first take the wallet, see how much he put in his pocket. For now, of course, a person's security check should be carried out. And what's he gonna do? He will say, "Lord, take your clothes off so that I may examine all your caves." That's what's gonna happen. And what if this lady gets upset and goes to the future Hanzak? What's gonna happen? Nothing. According to the papers, they'll be writing around the world, now that we have such a strange president, we've got some weird rednecks because we have weird laws that make it possible. Interesting is this device for locking and binding and gas dispenser. Why don't we just provide some armored cars and a 12.7 double-caliber machine gun up there, and it's best to keep it burning after what you see doing wrong - if it's working wrong. And if there's a little bit more to it, because they probably won't know how to shoot you, then it'll all go "in the luft" and it'll go "on" again. I mean, that's terrible. Then two other colleagues from NSI and SDS. I understand that both gentlemen studied in that school and went to Communist schools so that they cannot know any foreign languages, so I will explain to them what SA means or "Sturmabteilung". These are the assault squads set up by Hitler at the beginning of his operation in 1927. And the SS means "Schutztaffel" or the security unit, and it also created you with a similar purpose, as we are now establishing some local village guards. Let's also define an anthem of theirs, maybe find some new "Horstwesla" here to write them an anthem so they can walk up and down. The uniforms are already similar to the American ones, with those purple colors and so on. They can't talk much more than the American police - and here we are. That's great! Here, it goes on to say this option that this famous municipal editor of ours will be able to keep the offender there for an hour. I've been holding it for an hour. Now, he knew exactly where to keep it, whether to hold it for an hour just like that, or to hold it for an hour with his head underwater, if that's, say, near Lake Bligh. True, some would still survive because they have no vital organ in their head to harm them, but still, in general, a person usually dies if someone pushes him under the water for an hour. And that is what we allow some people who will use "schnellkurs" to teach them to tie their shoes and eat with a knife, and with a fork, to them, and we will now give an additional three-week course from the beating - and then they will be in charge! I mean, it's a weird country to let that happen. I say again, although I'm calling in the amendments that I'm going to vote for, but it's a complicated law - unfortunately we don't have such writers anymore, otherwise Fran Milicinski would have written Butlers number two again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you. He's got a word, if you'll excuse me, Comrade Boyan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not appropriate to talk about people or directors in this way. Anyone who wants to become a marshal - even meccas are not appropriate, Comrade Jelinčič, but good. Anyone who wants to become a director has to meet certain conditions that are prescribed, including the level of education. And the editors we now have at our disposal certainly do. In my debate, it is only about additional powers, not about what the editors are capable of and what they are not, but about what we impose on them by law and what these officials will have to do in accordance with this law. This, I think, is more than they should have been able to do and that this is the actual work of the police, which needs to be better equipped, better paid and hired than they need at each police station, and we will also have order in the area of public order and peace. However, when we speak of the fact that this is not a local police, or that this law does not establish a local police, let me read this second paragraph from this article, which we now consider, or the amendment, deletes three indents and a certain text from the second paragraph, which reads: "Unless this law provides otherwise for the exercise of powers, alerts to the security review, seizure of objects and the use of coercive means apply the provisions of the Police Act...", I repeat, the Police Act, "...and the regulations governing the principles and manner of the use of the same powers of police..." - I repeat this time, officers. So, these are the powers that belong to the work circle of police officers. And if you give these tasks to the municipal officials, you're actually setting up a local police force, at least in the circle of authority, if not in the title itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you. I give my word to the government's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Well, look, as far as these amendments are concerned, here's the thing. In fact, Article 10 speaks of the director's powers and probably, if we want municipal officials to be operational, they must also have the appropriate powers, which must be at least as many as other citizens and citizens have to ensure public order and peace. Natural persons have a duty under the law to detain the suspect of the crime and also to report to the police. Perhaps at least such a mandate should also be given to the editor and, of course, on this basis also give the possibility of a security review and also seizure of items that threaten the security of public order and peace. Of course, on the basis of this, it is also necessary to allow the director to use physical resources in the event of self-defence, otherwise we do not need red tape. I would like to point out that Members and Members of the National Party have already voted in favour of this law by voting on the Law on Public Order and Peace. Of course, the Law on Municipal Government speaks only of the powers to implement the Law on Public Order and Peace. In the absence of such powers, the Law on Public Order and Peace cannot be enforced in the manner prescribed by law. There's something else about the delimitation of jurisdiction. This law clearly speaks in Article 7, as it is now stated, that in the field of municipal rules the responsibility of the municipal editor is. However, in the field of regulations adopted by the State, the National Assembly and the State authorities, this competence is, of course, based on mutual coordination - the subordination of the police. The hierarchy must be determined in a coordinated manner in order to ensure security and peace. If, of course, the hierarchy is not established, then also appropriateness, coordination of security enforcement tasks - it is never the most effective. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you. Your performance has caused a replica. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At least as many powers as citizens have, because I consider myself a citizen, but I don't know if I have the right to hold on to one hour, I don't know if I have the right to examine anyone, and I don't know if I have the right to use physical force. Using physical force, I don't know if I have that right, if I have it, please tell me, and we can start today. Believe me, there are some people who would be happy to take advantage of this right if I don't get punished for it. We supported the Law on Public Order and Peace in the Slovenian National Party. Yes, of course, at one point, but it says there are also city officials who can take care of violations of public order and peace. It doesn't say that city officials can intervene in crimes and it doesn't say that they can use physical force, it doesn't say that. You nod or not, I'll tell you that's not what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I listen to this debate and this impatience, I will say, even in the National Assembly, it's getting worse with the police, with the red tape, etc. I don't know where that came from. Apparently his own experience, bad experience, apparently with the police, etc. And this core here is now in this law, which some Members are trying to pour out, which is obviously what they are throwing out of this city to fellow Members, such and other things that are not suitable for this house, but nevertheless it is a matter of every individual. I don't know who or why this marriage is so controversial and so wrong or so weak. I don't know what this is all about, I don't understand. A similar story was when we adopted the Law on Public Order and Peace. How many stories have been spilled, how negative, how inappropriate, and so on. Not to mention that extra amendment when we said "up to 16" and so on. But the Slovenian public seems positive, good, and some of you here have torn it down to the end. Today I'm hearing the same thing - it's not valid, it's not valid, it's not valid, it's nothing! We are afraid of the police, some would like to suggest that we abolish the police in Slovenia. This is what some people obviously want in this House. But we do have the police, and I think we use it very well and we need it. Talking about the local police, that's too much, fellas. I mean, that's too much what some people say. You obviously don't have any experience, maybe some of you have run for mayor, but you haven't been successful, and you think the mayor will be a local sheriff now, a local cop. If that is what you mean, then you are in great confusion or have no experience of what it means to be mayor of a congregation and what authority you have and what authority you do not have. And if you're monitoring any matter in the local area, the mayor is responsible for a lot of things, but he's not responsible for everything. And that, I think, is funny, and somehow it's illogical for me to think that someone is so afraid of the editors, the police, this law, more order, more security, more review, more maintenance of public order and peace. Why are we so afraid of this? Why? I don't know. Let us ask each one of us, who is so afraid of this? Who? Obviously, those who have some different concerns that the editor who will have to have a certain education, a certain knowledge and so on, who will be under the auspices of a local community, some authorities, will probably also have a lot of knowledge and experience. These cases that are so attracted to hair, that's not the majority. Maybe one in a thousand cases is the kind of guy my colleague was discussing in front of me what would happen if it did, and so on. That's incorrect. I think that this law, as has been said many times today, gives local communities the opportunity to order those who want to be organised, to have a review, to have less vandalism, to have more of what they are citizens, citizens simply want and want to have. From the mayor, it will depend on the establishment of individual candidates who will meet the conditions whether the service works well or not or whether there will be more cooperation with the local police or less cooperation with the local police. All of this depends on the people who will carry out this business, including the mayor, the municipal administration and someone else. That's how I don't see fear. The flexibility of the law is large enough to give the mayor and the authorities the opportunity to adapt to such and different situations. So, I don't know, so much impatience against this and so many parables with different stories about the Roma and so on, I don't think this is part of this bill. And I think it's a bit of an inappropriate debate, which apparently speaks of some of its own experiences with the police, with red tape. In general, however, the experience of citizens and citizens is likely to be somewhat different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Milan Petk. At the same time, I apologize for skipping you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	It is no big deal, therefore, when I reasoned on our amendment to Article 10 and later Mr Kontič has actually reminded me of the reference to Articles 12, 13 and 16, I would like to say this now that we have actually proposed many more amendments to the parental committee in advance. [[...]] And one of the essentials that we have proposed - of course, because of coalition discipline - was also the amendment to Article 36, by which we wanted to repeal the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. So we say the same thing all the time. We believe that this law has provided a basis for this law, but because this marriage is bad and it has given rise, we wanted to amend both laws in this way by abolishing one and modifying the other in this sense, as we have proposed in the 10th and the 12th and 13th and 16th articles, but we could no longer make the amendment to Article 14, as Mr Rezman warned us, because it is not open. If these amendments were adopted, there would be an uncoordinated law and then there would be an opportunity for Article 14 to be coordinated if this were to happen. So many explanations because we know what we could have invested and what the purpose of the LDS, the Liberal Democracy, has been since the beginning. When we talk about these comparisons, very little has been said in today's debate. This is how we like to compare ourselves with the European developed countries, the members of the European Union we are members of, and there are very few members who have this orderly, approximately as organised as a local service for the protection of peace and order, as we are now trying to introduce this into this legislation. One of the comparable laws is Italy, but Italy and Slovenia are not one of them after some of the events in this society, according to some state of spirit and culture and other things in this society. After all, Italy has adopted this legislation since the middle of the 18th year, apparently for reasons they knew in Italy at the time, this matter has been preserved, but this local police also has a basis in the Constitution, unlike us when we do not have it. When we speak of the fact that in the Constitution only the police, which are now and these powers, have a basis for carrying out these tasks, we are transferring them to the editors. However, if we compare ourselves with Austria, which we also like to do this comparison with, Austria does not. Germany does not have it, the Netherlands does not have it, Belgium does not have it. So these are the countries where we sometimes like to draw examples, and here we put them in some side corner, shut up and say they have some other countries, and we compared them with France and Italy. As far as today's debate is concerned, it is very sad, and perhaps now, except for this last attempt by Mr Janz, that there is no valid, good, qualitative argument on the part of the coalition Members, which would support, in fact, that they could convince me that the law is adequate and necessary because they would argue that. Discussions are a repetition of what someone has written to them and a reading of the findings that have been prepared long ago, except, as I say, Mr Janca, who has tried to justify, probably more from his experience where he does not see the weakness of this legislation. I say that Sevnica as well as Maribor and Ljubljana are not comparable in all elements. And we have some experience especially in these major places, where there are deviant situations, so that we can get the editors in a position where they don't manage these situations. It was previously illustrated in some cases. I believe you probably know your environment better, maybe there are few of these cases in Maribor. But in our legislation and in our opinion the only police are able to take care of it; the police, who must return to the city, unfortunately left the urban centres, went to the borders, went to the offices; where they should be in the streets where they should be in the cities, but they are not. And if we think that we are going to be so qualified, so not really prepared for this new situation, they can talk about what kind of security programme, about what kind of common arrangements - so where this option is not going to be, this protection will be bad, not different than it is now, and the basic purpose of the law will not be achieved if this was the primary purpose - and here I affirm that the aim was probably to ensure a better situation in this area. This is why we are trying at least partially to correct this legislation because we are aware that we cannot simply reject it completely. If you don't want to understand this, you have to carry the consequences in perspective. After all, the People's Party has the highest number of mayors and will also have the most problems with the implementation of this law and will remain proportionate to its share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you, too. I'm opening a new application circuit, please. Here you go. We have five panellists registered. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to discuss Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. But maybe just for the introduction, we've decided and the basis, I think Comrade Rezman, I've listened before, discussed that some other laws have directed that it must come to this law. That's the first one. Secondly, I've been mayor for quite some time, and I've often wanted the police's assistant in the work of the editors. Because we didn't have the cases assigned, the warden came, and the driver pushed him almost into "the last one" because he wrote him a ticket for 2,500 tolls to pay the penalty. That's enough about it. I'd go specifically to Article 10. Colleagues, I read the whole law and try to read the law in article 3, I try to read the law in article 10 and then I try to read the law in article 14. If we have already made up our minds, some seem to be not, but if we have already decided to have a congregation editor, who we have given him, yes, we must also protect him in order to exercise these powers. And how do we protect him? We wrote in Article 14, in conjunction with Article 10, that the municipal governor may use a physical force and a gas dispenser only if he otherwise cannot deter a simultaneous illegal attack from himself or anyone else. I don't know what it means, but I don't know what it's all about. I think that we need to allow him not to get what I said earlier, as if my colleague Jelinčič said, what in the seat muscles from that editor who we gave him some authority to do something against those who would violate, for what he is competent to control the director under Article 3. And once again, I cannot support this amendment, as I said before in article 9 of the hierarchy, nor can I support this amendment. Then, in fact, he is granted mercy and mercy when he comes into the execution of the measures imposed on him by law. And let's say one of them would have come, like one of his colleagues was a talker before, and maybe he'd have come to put a fox queue on the wrong parking spot on the street. This is no way I can support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have the privilege of being among the first, even then the presidents of the congregations who established the congregation. This was in 1992; in Cyprus it was the first part of what, of course, later became a highly developed congregation. As early as 1992, Koper became the first part of what later became a highly developed municipal registrar in the Municipality of Koper. And I learned something, including from Italian experience, that hybrid situations, so when you have someone with powers and there's no "not dick or mice," you get an extremely dangerous situation. For conflicts of interest and authority are met. And in this particular case - I will support this amendment because it partially amends the law, which is not acceptable, in my opinion. The question is, if we go back to today's current events, we have seen certain road prisons being built. In one village, or in one congregation, in Ivančna Gorica, if I am not mistaken, even firefighters took part in a roadblock. What's tomorrow? Is the mayor involved in establishing a roadblock? Is there a police officer who has a duty to remove the roadblock? Who's gonna solve this conflict when something like this happens? I'm defending what my colleague Friday said earlier: The police have to go back to the cities. They may be and must be, but when they are dangerous powers, with reduced powers, not with increased powers. For you cannot do this work if you are not fully qualified for the virtues that someone who is obliged to establish order and to carry out the law needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, although it is obvious that it only partially fixes errors and partially improves the situation. However, I think that the debate on this Article is important. In fact, we're talking about powers, we're talking about the nature of the orderly. And it is here that I have two major problems with this article and with this law in its entirety, and especially with this article. For the first time, the question of jurisdiction was said to be resolved in other articles and resolved on paper, but from practical situations we know what might happen. It may not be exactly what SNS colleagues think, how these editors will examine, retain, investigate, and so forth how they will be overactive, but it seems to me that in the event of incident situations, I can imagine the situation when they do not intervene in some kind of fight and not in others. And the officers will refer to the officers and the officers of the police, one of the municipal regulations, the other of the state laws, and so on. Thus this matter is not settled from this point of view and I think there will be a major problem here. However, another problem with these powers is of course linked, and it is even bigger, on the question that I am firmly convinced that in these cases it is the use of the monopoly given by the State, namely, forces and similar matters, and that this must be done by qualified, trained and educated people. Courses are too small and I don't mind the guards. I know they can be good, diligent, and they can be good, and they can be bad, but the cops have a four-year-old school, extra education and things like that, or three-year-olds or whatever. This education, which is related to the use of these powers, is linked to the use of the physical force to be carried out by trained and trained people. Otherwise, as things show today, Mr Minister, you will listen to me, I recommend to you and to the Government, as has already been said, that you and the Government withdraw the Law on Municipal Government from the agenda as soon as possible and submit the Law on Village Guards as necessary and expeditiously as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you. The debate was opened by Minister Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. First of all, an objection to Mr. Yuri. What Mr Juri proposes is contrary to the amendment you have proposed to Article 9. In this situation is Article 9 - and this is what you have just mentioned - essentially saves. Otherwise, I would really like to try again to explain how, in accordance with existing legislation, regulation should work or should work once this law is passed - I hope and I believe that, because the purpose of this law is to contribute to ensuring greater conditions as regards the order and regulation of this area. There are a number of areas within this order, not least in the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which has already been adopted by you, it is also relevant in writing and also in that part of how things should be done. At the moment, the situation is that we have a truly hybrid situation with regard to the performance of those tasks that the directorate is also supposed to carry out, because it can do so in accordance with the law or regulation or the police. And that's why, and that's what my experience tells me in accordance with the Road Safety Act, because it's always been in the field of peaceful transport that the police actually withdraw from this work or leave it to the authorities. Let the congregations arrange for them to do so. Most municipalities, however, already have their branches; they have a share of the tasks, for those performed by their own acts, and for those for whom the legislation had previously been the basis. Since the interpretations were such that the law makes it possible, organize yourselves. Now, of course, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace allows certain areas to be organised, but now it is necessary to organize. So these dilemmas that you mentioned are present right now, they're here. With this law in the first phase, we are restoring all these powers, not the powers, because they have the powers conferred on them by the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace - back to the police and through the security programme we allow individual municipalities, which are different, I agree that within this set of powers they will agree on what work and how they will carry out the red tape and how and how they will carry out the police. Until this security programme is adopted, the police are obliged to implement these things. [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course, I believe and also experience that every mayor wants to have the best possible situation in his own environment. So, it will make an effort to make this agreement happen - I believe we are mature and serious people and that we live, of course, in a serious country where legislation is respected - and on the other hand, of course, the police's interest in regulating these matters is agreed. No one, probably, fits the situation where all things are in the air. The amendment, which is bound to do so, speaks of powers. If we want these tasks - and this can be further clarified by the experts - who are charged with the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, not by this law, which now governs these matters, that is to say, the authorities need a certain range of powers. This is also indirectly stated in the security programme where the scope of the tasks will be determined. In the first place, however, some of the powers that you have specifically highlighted are also essentially intended to protect themselves in some way, where, in the performance of these tasks under the sectoral legislation, editors are left to a situation that is completely unregulated. And that led us to all these things. Therefore, these solutions are proposed in the manner proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I support the reflection and part of the debate that has been heard in this Chamber, say from Mr Janc's mouth, this concern. Even with a great deal of what the Minister has said, it is fair to agree, but I will be happy to support this article, because I think that these editors, according to this article, will sometimes be doing a bear service and that the victims of these strange behaviors will most often be those editors who will not be a match for the situation and the stories. A while ago, I spoke to one of the gentlemen involved in security, and he confirmed to me the theory that is most often heard among people that if you, for example, break into a house, most of the time those who go hero in this story are confronted with such injustices with force, with weapons or with certain things that they do not know. Those who come to commit these violations are usually substantially better prepared, significantly better trained, than those who oppose them. And here I see quite a few problems. But I still have a dilemma, and I will also take advantage of the presence of the Minister - what this obligation is. Will congregations be obliged to have, for example, a congregation such as ours between 15,000 and 20,000 inhabitants, or will we now be forced to have as many as three guards at once? How am I going to fund them, and who's going to pay us for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you. I'll reopen the debate. Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Well, I say again that I think I intend to support this amendment and that I think there are enough valid reasons to support it. First, let me answer the claim that most congregations already have municipal officials. 143 are in Slovenia, 40 of them in Ljubljana, some of them are divided into larger cities, and the vast majority of municipalities will now take the first step towards the establishment of the municipality. And the vast majority of these will not be able to do so, as is stipulated here in the law. Another time. I think that all the debate so far has shown that this is true, and the Minister has indirectly confirmed this, so that this law confirms the thesis on cowardly eggs. And now there's something else to be done here until the law is passed. Third time. If we come to such a level that we defend the law at all costs, which is now partly the case, then we are on the wrong track. I don't want anyone to understand that I'm attacking a local government job. I want this service to listen to some of the reasoned comments and to say, yes, they are weaknesses and it is best for weaknesses to be recognised as weaknesses and addressed. So our ambition is that the minister listens and says, okay, there's something else worth changing. When we come to a level to say that we are all equal in our obligations, every citizen must do what is written in here for the editor, then there is no need for law. Then we're all bound to do it anyway. And then it's just a law about getting all the municipal red tape uniforms and putting all our citizens on the payroll. Well, these are preposterous arguments, and we're not going to agree to that, at least some of them. And for the fourth time, what I'd like to say. At least I'm not afraid there'll be more police. I am not afraid of having municipal authorities where they are needed and where they are able to perform their duties. On the contrary, I wish that the police would no longer be as promised now, as the Minister of the Interior in this Chamber himself has already said indirectly that they will not always be in the offices and on the roads almost nothing more, and that we will now send the police instead of the municipal officials.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you. Again, I owe you something. As far as tasks are concerned, you impose the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace and the Law on Road Traffic Safety on all municipalities the same tasks. Because we are aware of the diversity of municipalities, we are proposing flexible solutions and through the security programme these flexible solutions can be used. And the law also provides for different forms of possibilities for the organisation of red tape, from joint administrations to separate ones, as well as with powers in certain municipalities. With regard to all these preparations, it should also be said that the two-year transitional period in which these matters should also be prepared through the security programme to be adopted by the municipalities and the police in individual municipalities is envisaged - even after the discussion has already taken place on the Committee. We estimate that now it is probably that long enough to allow it. And as far as the police are concerned. Not even roughly through the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace itself, as I understand it, have they given the officers of this title the same powers as the police. Not even close. The powers of the police are essential, significantly wider from other legislation in other areas. And, of course, the education programme is in some way aligned with this work with the powers that editors should actually use in this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u143	I was initially talking about this flexibility. This flexibility has only three forms. One of these can be chosen by the congregation. Only in the meantime can he choose. He's got to have that. By law, he must have a municipal editor. And where the congregation will have only one congregation editor or one congregation editor, it will be impossible to perform all the duties of the congregation. That's what I'm trying to tell you. In my congregation, a small girl, who will be a clerk, cannot replace the lack of police, which you are talking about in the introduction to this material.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. After all this heated discussion, some people’s violent imaginations, we can really ask ourselves whether the congregations need congregation regurgitation or not. I think so. However, in a number of congregations, the municipal authorities are already functioning effectively under this law, which is now in force. I think, Comrade Rezman, the data you gave us is from 2004. I think there's a lot more municipal editors today. I will add what has been heard that after this new law, the municipal authorities and the police are supposed to refer to each other in terms of jurisdiction and duties and obligations. Comrade Gantar, this is happening now. I know the example from practice in my congregation. When it comes to the police sticking to their legislation, which is also, in fact, the municipal government, and there are differences in certain tasks where they do not actually want to carry out this obligation. I am firmly convinced that this marriage is not as bad as you have, in fact, criticized almost everyone in the opposition. It is likely that this law will contribute precisely to this, since it is also the content of the law that they do not invoke, on the one hand, the municipal authorities, on the other hand, the police, on the other hand. This will also be defined in the municipal security programme. That's supposed to be covered in there. However, if this new law imposes new obligations on the municipal authorities, it certainly imposes new powers on them. These powers are set out in Article 10. And I must say that in our Group of Members, I will not support this amendment to Article 10 either, because, in fact, this undermines the whole concept of the proposed law. Once again, I would like to stress all this excruciating debate, but above all a lot of criticism, I think they are unfounded and, as the Ministry has said, we must adopt this law that we will also be satisfied with the existing legislation or with what we have already adopted in relation to this law, including the Law on Public Order and Peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. With or to what we have just heard with this debate, which is very interesting. I agree with colleague Friday that the police have left the city with their powers. I agree with that in part, and that too is true. Apparently, he has some new priorities, some tasks, and maybe he's leaving this story a little bit, which we used to be, car tickets for the wrong parking. That's right. As far as the editors' authority is concerned. Look, if we want to have a successful job, the warden has to have the right authority. It's perfectly clear. Sometimes we say we don't have powers, now we're giving them too much. When's the right time? Never. That's one. As for this program that my colleague was talking about before me. Normally, the municipalities will define a programme for what is a priority for it. Whether only the editor's office will do the wrong parking or something else, it's a matter of local authority, according to my understanding of this law. Or it's a lot more. This depends on the congregation, which city congregation is likely to have some, some little, or some little, in some small congregation. That's what he's gonna do with the local police that's in charge in that area. So I don't see any special fears, problems and marriages like this here, if you look at it from the first to the last article, I think it shows [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the gaps that have arisen in the local community. [[...]] Those who want order in their field have an opportunity here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you. Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I'm glad we agree with Mr. Jane in some way, and this is the one who's worried. This explanation also, of course, requires, at least on my part, a different thinking. Once the police get this law, I'm not actually going to say silence, but also the basis for them to feel and get a formal opportunity to back off even more than they've done so far. So far, this option has not been formally available. She was in charge of security in a certain area, she had to be teamed to ensure that. She wasn't. Now we get exactly what you're talking about and you're afraid, and you think there's going to be some coordination between what the police are going to do and what the local community is going to do. This police will also simply leave these areas and leave all this responsibility to local communities. And local communities will be forced to team red tape teams if they want to ensure this appropriate security and protection of public order and peace in their environment. And these editorial teams can't logically be less than three people to understand each other, because it takes 24 hours to provide protection in some area. And if you divide it, 24 hours, probably four people, it's actually going to be the minimum number of these crews that are actually going to be distributed by a multi-community inter-agency organization. But this again reduces efficiency in some environments where this will not be set up well enough. And that's what's actually an argument, a reason to think that the law is inappropriate, that it would be better to withdraw it. It's clear to me that the Minister won't be here because he's taken on the obligation to write it down, so he's defending it so franticly. But I'm not sure he's the most confident one himself that this is the most appropriate solution. However, there is no point in persuading him, and he has this task as a state official, and he may be able to do so in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you. Given that we have a few more debaters, I will first give my word to the President of the Government and then we will open up an electronic notification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u151	I would only contribute to this debate once again perhaps with one clarification. This law does not mean that there will be a certain part of the implementation of the security programme, it is said, in the local area now the police have completely withdrawn and will be transferred to the municipal editor. This law merely complements the implementation of security in the field of local self-government. In particular, complementing and coordinating each other in this area. So far, of course, there has been no such thing as the true work of the municipal registrar, which in some way could be taken care of by hand with the local security police. Therefore, first of all, the adoption of a security programme, a transitional period, the appropriate flexibility of organisation is likely to be an appropriate form for the full implementation of the red tape service throughout the country. The question is, who, at the moment, can say for any municipality in the Republic of Slovenia that there is no need to carry out red tape services here also for that municipality property, which is already under the Law in local government, in order to provide adequate protection for the municipalities. Therefore, of course, the Law on Municipal Government only means the completion of the implementation of security and security in the local area. One more thing. This is mainly about what has been said many times today, a mutual agreement between the police and also a regular service. This is a significantly higher quality than what we have at this point in time, when it can really be a situation where we do not have a law enforcement service, it can in some way silence the police, that they have withdrawn in certain cases, or that other tasks have prevented them from carrying out tasks that have also been prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you. We have a procedural proposal. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I think it is appropriate, in this case, to warn representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that they are trying to advocate a law for which, if not earlier, they have found it completely pointless to underestimate Members and Members of this National Assembly. The moment you say that this is a supplement to the Law on Public Order and Peace, it seems to me that you underestimate us as well as this National Assembly, if we don't know what we're taking. You know, in this law, which is before us today, you have given city officials the power to act even if it is a crime. You have instructed the congregations to have city dwellers without providing them with financial resources. And, you know, all of this seems very underestimating to me, both to this National Assembly and to all the 90 Members who are sitting here. Last time you tried to make us illiterate and incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u154	That's an interesting procedural proposal. I'm opening a new application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u155	Mr. Secretary of State, you can't say words like that. Nobody here said it was anti-rage, like you wanted to turn. This amendment is talking about repairs. He's talking about not wanting to fix it, not wanting to end it. Another time. The municipalities do not choose arbitrarily what they will have and how they will have it. Article 3 speaks of areas, Article 10 speaks of powers and Article 19 speaks of complaints if we leave anything. The municipality has no arbitral right, it must exercise this, and everyone has the right to complain if it does not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you. The word is given by Minister Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u157	Well, I have to check in here anyway. True, these articles speak of what you have just said by giving a certain degree of flexibility. However, the congregation, together with the police, shall adopt and bring into line the security programme and shall determine these matters definitively. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u158	No, Minister, wait. Let's do it in order. I ask all Members and Members not to speak from chairs, so it is a system of applications and we will stick to it. I give my word to my colleague, Joseph Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In order not to be characterized by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party as an asshole who does not know the laws, and not to be delineated, as the Secretary of State has been to send us a message, I will try to ask a colleague from this party who spoke before me - as I have already discussed twice in this article - to read all the articles. And what he said, what we impose on the orderly by this new law, not a word of what he said, is true. We have written in Article 3 what jurisdiction is. What, in fact, will be agreed, taking into account, as stated in the first paragraph of Article 7, "a municipal security programme will be brought into line with the rules prior to adoption," says, in particular, probably with the Public Order and Peace Act, which speaks of this, "the Ministry of Home Affairs programming documents," says the programming documents resulting from these rules, which the police have, "and the police in the field of public security and with the necessary security conditions in the municipality."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. I would like to tell my fellow Member Petk - otherwise he is not in the hall right now - when he said he felt that he would give the new law a silence to the police. See, the existing legislation, we know that the congregations are different, and some Members have debated in this direction that there are not enough police, no one has debated that there are too many police in which congregation. However, I must certainly mention the congregations that are at the border and we have a lot of police. But as far as the police's activities are concerned, today, according to existing legislation on public order and peace, I firmly believe that the same is true in all congregations. And now I am speaking as mayor and will make sure that the police work in this security programme is as involved as possible in the adoption of the municipal security programme. And it is likely that every mayor will look to see that this will be covered in the municipal security programme. To conclude, silence, I hope they don't get me wrong. And today, they have a lot of options. I firmly believe that if we adopt a municipal security programme that will mean cooperation between the authorities and the police, the police can be as active as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you. The word is given by Minister Zhagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you, again, for your word. I would like to point out that the red tape is currently carrying out the tasks of the regional sub-legislative acts, the municipal rules imposed by the municipality. In one part, this area matches. It is now a pure decision of the congregation, how much it imposes. In the second part, the scope of the tasks that the legislation imposes, but not this law, is aligned through the security programme and the problem is solved, somewhere before, we have heard this hybrid state, not exactly hybrid, but this state, where it is not now clearly demarcated, what and how. Through the programme of activities, the scope of the tasks shall then be determined or coordinated between the police and the municipality. And this is where the congregation can express its interest. Some congregations have an interest in having more, and others are likely to have fewer. And in this part, the matter is flexible and, of course, the congregations will decide on the basis of other solutions that follow. Also on the basis of organization, based on the size of the congregation and so on. However, the powers are those necessary to enable the management to carry out this scope of the tasks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you. I'm opening another round of debaters. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you. There is no free choice as to what will be said in the municipal security programme. The mayors won't be able to choose and coordinate what it says. The law determines what must be written there. And tell me if the mayor can decide not to lock up his county clerk, he won't tie up. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] She won't hold back, and she won't take away the items.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss this in conjunction with Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Members, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the same parliamentary group, i.e. the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Here you go. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. As far as these amendments as you have just stated are concerned, our Group's position is that they are essentially just harmonisation amendments and there is no big story here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 12. However, I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the same Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the same Group of Members. Anybody want a word? I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice President, Your Honor! The nebulosis we've heard about not establishing local police is collapsing when we consider this amendment. This amendment, specifically, I am talking about the second amendment to Article 16, speaks of the fact that in the event that a person is subjected to physical injury or death during the proceedings. Who else has such jurisdiction in this country that someone who commits a crime or a crime causes a physical injury or death other than the police? Nobody. We're giving it to the wardens today. Directors must inform the mayor within 24 hours, one very long period of time, that they have caused or injured someone's death. It's very interesting, very, very offensive to what you've advocated so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you, Vice President. I propose that representatives of the ministry present their position here as well. I also find this notice controversial. After 24 hours, when the field legislation that governs this area tells us when death is caused, who is notified. It's not safe for the mayor here, but there are other authorities, I think it's an investigative judge etc., etc. And to wait 24 hours to inform the mayor that his act has caused death, I think that there is something at stake here, and I suggest that we hear the position or opinion of the office, that we accept this amendment, and that we adapt this provision of the law to the rest of the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you. Minister Zhagar, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. In this part it is a message to the head of the department - the mayor. As far as the deadline is concerned, the case is currently scheduled for 24 hours, and may also be reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u174	Procedurally, colleague Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you. A very two-faced response from the government. Let us know whether you support this amendment to shorten this deadline or not. Since it's one hour I think it's long enough to inform either the mayor or anyone. If you support this, make it clear that there will be no error in the votes of government Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you, too. Minister Zhagar, please answer the procedural question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u177	I think I've already answered that question. We are not opposed to this amendment. It was a matter of time before this article was drafted, and the possibilities for achieving this were also taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with Article 16? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. However, I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.50 hours. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 9. It's a second-hand proposal for a stern law. I am pleased to inform you that a total time of debate is foreseen for 1 hour and 21 minutes. Between us, I welcome Minister Lukačičeva. Good-bye. And I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us the Feed Act, the area of which has been fully regulated since 2002 in the same name law. After the adoption of the hygiene package, the safety of the feed under the responsibility of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia was regulated by the Veterinary Criteria Act. The remaining feed-related content and primary production should therefore be separately regulated. The proposal for a Feeding Act makes the text nominally consistent with the European legal order. At the same time, it coordinates the content with the delimitations which have been governed by the Law on Veterinary Criteria. In order to comply with the obligations of the Member States, the requirements laid down in European law have been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by two regulations, which we are essentially merging in this law. The feed law submitted therefore regulates the competent authorities for the implementation of feed rules and official controls, quality parameters, feed additives, protein source products, the competent authority for applications, for the approval of new hygienically modified organisms for use as feed, primary production of feed of plant origin, official controls, registration of establishments in primary feed production and in accordance with European legislation, official laboratories and national reference laboratories shall be introduced. I suggest that the law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Minister, distinguished present, Members and Members of Parliament! Apparently, today's going a little faster than we anticipated. I will briefly present the Committee's position on the Feed Law. I don't really have anything to add to what the minister said. I would just like to say that we unanimously supported the law on the committee. I believe that will be the case here today in the National Assembly. However, we have also taken into account on the Committee the proposal of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. This proposal, however, is that the whole area of the Republic of Slovenia be defined as a national market where farmers of their products can be identified as being mainly voluminous and other primary feed without any registration. This is the way it has been so far, despite the fact that this law follows the guidelines of the European Union. This proposal seemed very appropriate to us. On this proposal, we also discussed the Agricultural and Economic Chamber in a large and extensive manner and, finally, decided unanimously on the Committee to include the new 17a. the article in this law. I was as short as I could get. I propose that, as the committee has done, you also unanimously support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Homan has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable colleague, colleague! Good-bye to all of you. We've got the Feed Law ahead of us. The basic principle of the proposed law is the application of the principle of traceability throughout the food chain from primary production to use in providing safe food along the whole range from field to table or from villas to forks. We have something like this in the food industry, you might say, a hasap. Here we enforce a similar law, a law of traceability. We all have an interest in having healthy feed, that is to say, here we will follow from the beginning, from the source of feed to storage, to the use, to final consumption. In all of these chains, we will have some traceability, which is to say that we will be able to say in concrete terms, the one who stored the feed poorly is therefore corrupted, so we will punish it. The law also provides for appropriate penalties. We will be happy to support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you, too. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. In fact, the proposal for a Feed Law represents a harmonisation of the European Union's legislation with our national rules. It is very important that this law regulates animal nutrition in such a way that traceability of feed is ensured. The law therefore also establishes the competent authorities for the implementation of regulations and official controls, as well as official, national and reference laboratories. Most importantly, it is mandatory to register establishments dealing with primary production of feed of plant origin to ensure consumer protection or to provide safe and quality food. In doing so, however, we would like to point out in the Group of Social Democrats that we are introducing the transposition of the EU acquis in a more lively manner than in the case of a veterinary field where we have taken more rigorous measures than they should have been. Therefore, the notice of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to this law in the context of the examination of the law on the Committee was very appropriate. For the EU Regulation allows exceptions by requiring us to state very clearly which exceptions and under what conditions these exceptions may be applied. The local market and the small quantities of feed should be defined primarily on the basis of these options and an exemption from the EU hygiene package can then be achieved. Of course, these exceptions are still subject to national legislation. However, the legislative and legal services point out that not all the concepts in this proposal have been adequately defined, which could lead to problems in the implementation of these measures. The new Article 17a, created by the Committee on the basis of a proposal from the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, is therefore an attempt to follow the facilitations afforded by the EU regulation. Of course, the text, as I said, has not yet been fully harmonised. And also the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups has not, in our view, yet drawn close to that text that would give all answers to the legislative and legal services' questions. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we believe that the feed law in question should make it clear that the registration procedure for primary feed production of plant origin does not apply to operators of activities allowing the direct supply of feed in small quantities. These are local farms and farms that have this feed as their final crop and can take over this amount of feed from authorised producers. However, in our view, a small amount of feed is intended for the final consumer in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We expect that the amendment to Article 17a will be adopted, which would also buy some time until the third reading, in order to define these reliefs more precisely, especially in order to avoid problems in implementation. To this end, we also have in our Group a text that we want to include in our efforts to improve this Article and, if possible, we will take advantage of it in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you, too. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Hello, Minister of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members! The proposal for a feed law is to harmonise our legislation with the newer regulations of the European Union in this area. The law lays down competent authorities for the implementation of feed rules and official controls, quality parameters, feed additives, protein source products, competent authority for applications, for the approval of new genetically modified organisms, for use as feed, primary production of feed of plant origin, official controls, registration of primary feed production establishments and in accordance with European legislation, it introduces official laboratories and national reference laboratories. The law now provides a substantive substitute for the applicable feed law. The allocation of feed of plant origin, as regulated by the proposal of this Act, is subject to new rules from feed issues of food origin which have been fully transferred to the mother of the Veterinary Criteria Act. The law introduces into the Slovenian legal order the enforcement of the European regulation in the work relating to the obligation to register all feed establishments, including those dealing with primary feed production. In Novi Slovenija we will also support the proposed amendment, which speaks of small feed producers, this is about farmers that we allow them not to register as large establishments, but only to sign a declaration that they are food growers and will not be treated as large establishments. One of the main advantages of this law is also a specific article that regulates the traceability and labelling of feed in a new way, ensuring greater safety throughout the food chain from production to use. As we believe in the New Slovenia Group that this regulation will provide consumers with safer and better food, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you, too. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Feed Law is a very important law for the health and life of all inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In providing safe food on the whole route from field to table or from villas to forks, feeds one basic article. Without adequate control and quality of feed, it is not possible to provide consumers with safe and quality food. The new Feed Law brings together elements that align the areas of animal nutrition with the acquis of the European Union and allow for a uniform legal work for this area and thus an appropriate link to the specific feed unit in Brussels. More importantly, it seems important to us that, according to the requirements of the European Union, it regulates and removes incomplete controls so far, since our current law governs only health control over feed and not control over the quality of feed. The law also introduces official national and reference laboratories in accordance with European law. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, the following are the essential innovations brought by the law: mandatory registration of establishments dealing with primary production of feed of plant origin under the Feed Hygiene Regulation, which obliges Member States to introduce control in the primary production phase, namely the implementation of Regulation 882-2004 OFCS on the implementation of official controls on food and feed. This lays down general rules for the exercise of official controls, which, in our view, is important for achieving objectives such as: reducing the risk to animal and human health and to the environment and ensuring fair trade and protecting the consumer's interests against counterfeiting. It also seems important to us that, under this Regulation, a joint multiannual programme of official controls will be drawn up which includes all the competent inspections. Finally, it is also very important that in our Group we always welcome the introduction of more rational control procedures and better exploitation of human resources, in this case in the case of controls when feed is introduced from third countries, because systematic documentation checks and identification checks are carried out by the customs authority. In the parliamentary group, we believe that by adopting a supplement to the law, a fundamental principle of traceability can be realized throughout the food chain from primary production to use. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a feed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you, too. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Madam Minister, the Honourable Minister is present! The purpose of the Feed Law ahead of us is to bring animal nutrition into line with the acquis of the European Union. The Act will replace the existing Feed Law and therefore summarise certain existing content and release certain content that has already been implemented by the Regulations. The law also lays down competent authorities for the implementation of feed rules and official controls and quality feed parameters. In accordance with European legislation, the draft law introduces official national and reference laboratories, mandatory registration of establishments dealing with primary production of feed of plant origin under the Feed Hygiene Regulation 183/2005, implementation of the Regulation implementing official controls in the field of food and feed. The law does not provide for additional financial consequences. The financial consequences of the Act were then adopted by you for the years 2007 and 2008. With regard to the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, I must say that the Committee on Agriculture has fully respected and the amendment for the new Article 17a has also been adopted. Therefore, I see no reason why the Members of the Slovenian National Party would not support the Feed Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 21.11. I am putting to the debate Article 17a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm opening the application. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said in the presentation of the positions of the Member, the groups in New Slovenia will support this amendment because it excludes farmers-direct food producers, whether hay, silage, cereals and similar feed from mandatory registration and does not throw them into the same basket with large establishments, for example, oil shops, which then sell the grain or convert it into feed, because only new farmers will be able to officially register themselves with a form prescribed by the Minister and can market their feed produced on their farms directly to consumers throughout Slovenia. This amendment seems to us to be a good one for farmers, for farmers, and we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Madam Secretary! This law is innocent, one copy of European legislation that is not supposed to cause any inconvenience to Slovenia, but of course this is not the case. This law is tanning 300, 400,000 citizens if it is implemented. But if it doesn't work, no one will. But it's gonna be hard to do. And this 17th article is a narrow throat, and colleague Weber has also pointed out. It is true that the amendment proposed by the coalition parties is better than the basic text of the law, but I think it is necessary that until the last, third readings continue to be examined or examined in the text, because some things will remain, as I have said, a narrow throat and questionable from the point of view of implementation. We still do not have a sufficiently precise quantity of feed and local care. Why? Maybe it's purely nomotechnic. From the basic text to me, because it is an area, mainly plant feed, that is still closer to production. We have some specialists here who are familiar with the Slovenian language and that may help to address this matter, but this is a less important matter. The other thing is the local area. We have defined the local area with a national political border. Whether local care on the Prekmurje-Primorska route is the same local care as the local supply of two settlements, 100 meters away on each side of the state border. Ambassadors, for example, have not been considered here, although this is a strong local supply and we have now taken some political territory, although feeding within the borders of the European Union is a matter of adapting to the single European market and thus manipulating the feed that is being dealt with in this law and a few metres further is not a local supply and 300 kilometres is a local supply. I do not think that this area of the Republic of Slovenia is the right term or definition. It is true that progress in this amendment is only a matter of record, that it is no longer a register, although the difference is not so severe. I don't know. I'm gonna have to record anyone who's gonna manipulate a basket of feeds. Does it make sense to achieve a higher level of guaranteed health chain in food production or anything? Because it is whether or not we agree to write it down, we do not implement it, because I do not think we can do it, this article, as it is written. Let it be reconsidered whether it is possible to define this differently because there are some texts, in the meantime it is good to listen to the opposition as well, and that you are trying to make this article, which is extremely important for the third treatment, slightly different to get one life text that can be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I agree with the predecessor, as well as the proposaler - the parliamentary groups, which are mentioned, I recognise and support a good purpose. This issue is in every way able to support, it is good for many Slovenian farms, but let us try to solve those cases before the third hearing, which has been pointed out. For example, Gorenjska is a typical example where large quantities of feed are "driving" from Primorska and from other parts of Slovenia, including abroad. It is also an interesting example, but what about the supply of feed, such as property with a previous "socialist" economy and vice versa. Whether this is the case where our farms will supply feed to cooperatives, other agricultural establishments, which are not only registered as farms or possibly organisations with d.o.o., p.p. And what else is similar to the form and there is no quantity of feed, where there are some 100 animals, where the quantities of feed are small? I am sure that this amendment of yours, which has a good, positive spirit, will improve until the third reading and correct in the spirit of everything that has already been said, and I do not think that there are any reservations to this support if it does improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you. We're reopening the debate. Please. A colleague, Joseph Bajc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Partly on the dilemma raised by the debate on this amendment, this article is in line. We are also talking about the area and we are saying that this is the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. A little less than this collective coalition amendment is appropriate when it comes to quantity and what a small amount it is. However, I have an additional question of what this means - what my colleague Sayovic said is that from the inland and coastal areas a lot of feed is brought to Gorenjsko - what this means for these feed producers who will only bring across the Italian border, say, one car of baled hay. This is also a small producer for me, because it is likely that from two farmers he will pick up or not count, given that we have said that it is only the Republic of Slovenia. This means that he will have to carry out all that procedure for those hundred kilograms or a few tons of feed that he will only take across the border, say, from the Spins to the border crossing, and in Sovodnja he will hand over this amount of hay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u201	I think that this amendment is quite good compared to the basic article, because it does exempt from the mandatory registration of farmers who produce and are already in the register of producers or are also registered as recipients of subsidies and are also owners of agricultural land. And these crops, feed, then sell again to direct consumers, are said to be again to other farmers who use this feed for livestock. And since registration is a significantly more difficult procedure, even cost-effectively, all from the analysis forward, it seems to me that this amendment is for all farmers who, for example, produce hay on their farm, and from Dolenjska's sale to Primorsko or vice versa, okay. And I don't think the Minister will prescribe any special regulations or special demanding forms either. I think the subsidies would have been enough already to register it. But I do have a question here, what, say, that farmer who lives in Goriška, who brings food from the old Gorica, or he also has land - and I think it has to be arranged. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yes, or in Gorenjska, across the border. Although the law also specifically provides in Article 15 that special measures shall be taken at customs and to prove food safety again, and so on, provided that they are brought from one country to another. Here I might ask the Minister to answer this question about transport from one farm to, say, Italy to Slovenia or vice versa. Otherwise, I feel that this amendment is extremely good for ordinary producers or farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or no later than 20.50. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And we're moving on to 2. Agenda item - Second Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 30 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia which regulates the area of acquisition, termination and registration of citizenship. The aim of the amendment is to simplify and rationalise the procedures in work, which now present difficulties in naturalisation procedures and, on the other hand, to introduce institutions that ensure greater efficiency in the case of abuse of the law. In this introductory address, I would like to present to you the major changes proposed by the proposal for a new law. The first major change is the transfer of actual competence in the process of acquiring or terminating citizenship transferred to administrative units, with the Ministry of the Interior in the process of acquiring citizenship being placed in the role of the supervisory authority, which will carry out the audit in the procedures for obtaining citizenship, except for procedures under Article 13 of the Law, which will remain within the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In doing so, I would like to inform you that there are currently procedures for obtaining citizenship for approximately 3 to 4 months, but with such a solution we will be able to reduce this time substantially, and we also count to half the time. Furthermore, it introduces a proposal for a new Law on respect for the free democratic constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and replaces it with a statement so far. This will enable a person to agree not only with the legal order but also with the values that apply in our society. It is important to mention the exemption from the condition of the termination of current citizenship for European Union citizens, for those members where we have a relationship with this country. In this way, there will be no need to add evidence or evidence of the cessation of citizenship for those citizens of the European Union in accordance with their reciprocity with that country. The new law introduces the transparency of the conditions of residence in the Republic of Slovenia for a very specific category of people. In practice, we have encountered the problem that some Slovenian citizens are married to non-Slovenian citizens and then they go to work in the EU institutions and thus do not have the condition of permanent residence in the country and for such citizens we introduce the possibility of overlooking this condition of stay, but these matters will be decided by the Government on each individual matter. Next. The descendants of Slovenian emigrants who have moved to the Republic of Slovenia will be able to acquire citizenship if they show their offspring in the fourth knee in line. For those who have visited and successfully completed at least the higher education programme of the study in the Republic of Slovenia, we will make it possible to facilitate the conditions for admission to citizenship, which will shorten the time they have to spend in Slovenia in order to obtain citizenship. The conditions for obtaining citizenship for persons of Slovenian nationality who live abroad and ask for citizenship after extraordinary naturalisation are eased, so that the source of survival will no longer be a condition among the other conditions which remain. The concepts of certain conditions for obtaining citizenship, such as the actual life in the Republic of Slovenia, the provision of material and social security and certain things, are defined in more detail and specific terms, and will then be easier to decide in the process itself. A basis is laid for the establishment of a register of citizens that will keep records of persons who have acquired or ceased their citizenship while at the same time facilitating access to these data with links to other registers, so that all those entitled to access these databases can access these databases more easily and that it will be easier to work within different authorities and to obtain [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the data. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members. At its 26th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship and the representative of the proposer, Minister Dragutin Mate, had already submitted a supplementary explanation and had cited the main solutions to the draft law. The proposed amendments and additions to the Citizenship Act mainly mean the continuation of past legal practice with certain things that practice has shown that they are not properly regulated. The fundamental objective is to amend or supplement certain areas of law, which have proved to be questionable in practice in particular, as insufficiently precise or indeterminately defined, which, as a consequence, constituted a problem for unclear use, especially for users. The Minister further explained his definition or definition of the Government to some of the major amendments tabled, which, if adopted, could significantly intervene and amend the text of the bill. She also gave her opinion to the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups within the time limit of the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Services. While noting the point made to the second paragraph of Article 5, that is to say, to the institute of the non-marital union, as well as to the institution of the registered same-sex partnership. In the debate on individual amendments tabled, the most relevant speeches and attention were given to the text of the oath. According to some, the proposed text is too extensive or burdened with unnecessary supplements, so it is reasonable to shorten it in some positions, in the sense that it will be simple and clear from the text of the oath that the person who acquires and acquires Slovenian citizenship will swear to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and will faithfully fulfil his obligations and duties. Others, however, were in the majority and considered that the text of the oath in the amendment proposal was appropriate, as it also clearly highlights the highest values that everyone who acquires Slovenian citizenship must respect. All the panellists agreed that this was a solemn act of oath on the basis of which the status of nationality was obtained, so a proposal for an amendment to the committee was also adopted to precisely regulate how this oath would be implemented in a sub-legislative act prescribed by the Ministry. Finally, the Committee endorsed all the proposed articles of the law together and proposed them for adoption by this honourable assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you. Since the Assembly held its 20th meeting on the first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21.11.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the three amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Here you go. Member Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to our amendment concerning the text of an oath or a solemn declaration, I am very well aware that this is not a judicial issue of the State. I hope the Government is also aware of this and that the coalition is aware of it. Nevertheless, I think it is a question of the reasonable scope of certain solutions and the potential of certain oath-related desires, which also do not indicate a rational treatment of individual issues. I would like to say - I hope you will believe - that with our proposal, there is no attempt to underestimate the importance of citizenship, that no attempt to reduce the importance of the solemn declaration or oath itself. And I would like to state that the content summarises all the essential issues that an individual must express in this regard. However, since we have already tackled this issue as more important within the framework of the amendments, let me say that I have collected some arguments and I would like to say them, in anticipation and desire that perhaps, in my opinion, the arguments prevail, but not the fact that who eventually wrote this oath. All respect for him, but because he wrote it as a respectable doctor of law, it doesn't have to be the only one and the best. I would say that in the Constitution of Slovenia we have an oath provided for the President of the State and for the Government. This oath is four times shorter, but I am not exaggerating, four times shorter by the number of words than the oath envisaged for admission to citizenship. It is also shorter than this oath, which is proposed by us, although not substantially, about the same scope. As far as the contents of our oath are concerned. We say: "I swear as the first essential substance that I will respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia." I, or in the Group of Members, say that this also means that I will respect free democratic constitutional arrangements. If anyone convinces me that this is another substance, I will not believe him because I am sure that respect for the constitutional order is also his democratic constitutional content. "To respect the values and principles of freedom and democracy." This includes respect for the constitutional order. And I could count it. Our second fundamental and important definition is: "To faithfully fulfill my obligations and duties." - which is also summarised in the government proposal and does not change anything. Our third main content is: "To act in accordance with the interests of Slovenia." - which is also enshrined in the oath, and at the same time it is written that I will not act against the interests of Slovenia. I think that if I commit myself to acting in accordance with the interest that it is at the same time means that I will not act against them and could still be specified. In short, I say that, according to the content of the oath, it governs everything necessary for a materially conscious new citizen to commit himself to respect the constitutional order, to act in accordance with the interests of Slovenia and also to act conscientiously in order to fulfil his obligations. Secondly, I would like to say that in our Group we have reviewed the arrangements for solemn statements or commitments in the 25 European countries. 13 does not know about the acceptance of citizenship of any declaration or oath. Of these, 15 of the old Member States of the European Union, 10 of which do not have any declaration, are mainly new members. Therefore, to say that this is a great European practice or that it is imperative to rob this obligation by not knowing what arrangements it is, it is probably not objective. I admit that I was so small and I looked at it in the English text, not in Slovenian, because I do not have Slovenian for all the oaths, what is the extent of the words that include these oaths. The Slovenian oath has 89 words and the constitutional oath has 21, Latvia 77, Lithuania 60, Austria 40, United Kingdom 37, Czech Republic 35, Malta 25, Greece 23, Cyprus 14. So if we had 24 of them, as our proposal includes, we would still be very worthy of the scope of the oath even compared to those European countries that know the oath, which, as I said, are less than half. And the last. It also seemed important to people to ask about it and ask them, not to say that it was a large survey, but in a statement of the week at Val 202 10.11.2006 from 16 there were 1 for a longer oath, 5 for a shorter, 9th did not seem most necessary in order not to say anything more concrete. I want to say that if there was little understanding of rationality, that it would be possible without any fear, that we would reduce the importance of the decision to take citizenship, or that we would diminish the importance of the state, or, as was the case with the working body of the speech, we would not be aware of all the celebrations of the moment. I explicitly reject all of this, and I think with a shorter, clear oath all of this would be guaranteed even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So in the LDS, we also object to such an oath as is proposed in the basic text of the bill. We have also said our views on this before when we discussed the draft law in the National Assembly. We don't think the text is necessary, it's unmodern, it's about pleonism, and we think it's extremely inappropriate at this point to make a fetish out of such an oath. I therefore also agree with all the arguments just stated by Mr Potrč, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, that we have proposed, with our amendment to this article, even further simplification of this oath, that everyone who accepts the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia would simply solemnly declare that he accepts the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and promises to respect its constitutional order. We believe that this also covers all the content contained in the basic text of the bill. So we think it's unmodern, unnecessary, and we just don't see the meaning of this fetish, which we're actually doing from this oath. That is why I would first suggest that, however, colleagues and colleagues support our simplified text or shorter text, and if not, we would also support the LDS Members' proposal from the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you. I'm reopening the application circuit. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I am to some extent, but only to some extent, I agree that this closure may not be a fateful matter, but it is very important, regardless of fashion. It is also true that the oath of the President of the State and the Government is shorter, but these two are already citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and they respect all of this. So it's not the same and it's very different, I'll say, not just that it's not the same. In my opinion, but this is my personal opinion, it should be even longer. Why? It's the attitude towards what you get. Getting a certain state's citizenship isn't just like that. I remember the 1991 debate when some people said that the independence of Slovenia was also "overcut", but who would want to have passports of a country like Slovenia. Today, the situation is completely different. There is no reason to question whether the passports of the Republic of Slovenia or any other document are irrelevant. The registration of citizenship is something like that. I think it's very appreciated to come into citizenship and just get it so you can say something, yes, and I agree gentlemen, and now give me the paper. That's not working. I'll give you an example. Switzerland, probably would not discuss what Switzerland is, but how Swiss citizenship can be achieved is a little different. Not only do you have to meet not know how many conditions you're being watched, who you're hanging out with, where you're going, even what your relationship is with this country. Either you have a respectable one, or maybe you're criticizing this country that you'd like to come to. Criticism, for example, can already be a problem, and the question is, will you ever get citizenship if you've given the criticism of Switzerland if you're not a citizen? Second case. We also had people with us who did not want to take citizenship in 1991. Of course, now they've changed their minds, but in the meantime, I'll say, they were disrespectful about Slovenia, not to say anything else, anything worse, which would be more appropriate, but I will remain disrespectful. Now these people would just sue the country, of course, but they can't if they don't have citizenship. Now we'd like to have citizenship to sue the country for not having it because they didn't want it for a lot of money. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the way to acquire citizenship. Again, in my opinion, I will say, half for a joke and half for real, it would be necessary to obtain citizenship to read the entire Prešern and Cankar and read it before the Commission. That would be respectful of you being able to become a citizen. I said half for a joke, half for real, but I want to say something with this: if you want to get citizenship, you have to behave with respect to this country and probably know something about this country. Obtaining citizenship, talking about the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, is an honour, but it is also an obligation for the applicant and also for those who are already citizens, because this gives them all the rights they have. This is a fact, and therefore I think that the kind of closure that is currently being written should remain as it is, because otherwise - I have said my opinion, but it is good to keep it as it is. By obtaining a charter that you are a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, all that follows is some honour and little more than honour, including an obligation for those who are already citizens, as I have already mentioned. Once you have this charter, when you make this solemn entry, then you can remember that you know that it took a certain effort and that you respect it. Because if you get something just like that over your thumb, you can never appreciate it and never respect it. But what you need to do is respect and remember. Such an amendment, which would shorten this entry, especially if the rationale is that this fashion is possible, if it were shorter, of course I cannot support and support the text envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u213	I will not refer to any European or other practice in these amendments, and it is also irrelevant to me, but it is a matter of our decision, because it is also going to the end of the day for our citizenship, those who will decide. As far as I am concerned, the text could be as it is now proposed, an amendment could also be adopted, and I would not feel unhappy either, but I know, as it has already been said in the first place, that this does not necessarily affect us and that the difference is mainly the following. The amendment states what is written in the bill in one sentence and in the bill it is written in three sentences, the content is, so also agreed by those who oppose, is identical in essence, the first amendment proposed is written in such a way that it is somehow neutrally written, I would say that it is almost inadequately written or that the LDS amendment is one that ensures inadequacy, nothing is said about it at all. In another case, therefore, in the case of a bill proposed by the Ministry, it is also more explicit to state that this is, I would say, an explanation and that anyone who reads the statement or makes it out of the file is also clear what implies that proposal that we have one sentence. So, I'm just going to click on the quorum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u215	I would like to discuss the second amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club regarding the height of the prison sentence as a reservation to the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship. I believe that the amendment is not appropriate and that the proposal for a law has in fact tried to make consistent legislation in this area and to align the wording of the proposal with the applicable Foreign Act, where the three-month prison sentence is the reason for the refusal of residence. And I think this is a strong enough argument that rejects the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club. Of course, if we look at some other countries comparatively, we see that the conditions that constitute reservations are even more acute.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. I'm sorry, Mrs. Bebler, I skipped, I should have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u217	is right, because now I have heard some argument which, in some sense, even holds. [[...]] But our amendment, which we have tabled in this second paragraph of Article 3, has been reinforced by the fact that the aggravation of punishment here is inappropriate in this respect because it can become absurd, since in the category where a prison sentence may be imposed, for example, for more than three months, criminal offences such as: slight bodily injury, participation in the fight, infringement of copyright, regret, slander. In short, it is a crime that is in a way bountiful and is the one who has committed such a crime and is at risk of being punished or already sentenced for more than three months, but it is a severe punishment and a serious obstacle for someone who otherwise fulfils all the conditions for obtaining Slovenian citizenship. So it seems to us that there was no need to sharpen this law at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to comment on the amendment that has to do with the oath. Already in the general debate we have held, I have pointed out that if the oath is to be a truly famous act, then certain conditions must be met. And given that the person who enters citizenship who receives citizenship must, by examination, prove language management at the general contractual level, however, expect not to master all the shades of Slovenian. It is true, though, that it is not stated or commanded that this text must know its meaning. Because I think you'd be in a very big trouble if you had to know the text. However, the act of festivities provides that this is expressed at some appropriate express level. And if I remember how people usually swear, then Slovenian nationalities, how they express this text, usually, at least some very indifferently say it - this is now about the level of emotional commitment to texting. In order to be able to express a text with appropriate emotional affection, you need to understand and accept the text very well. But I guarantee you that if there were 90 of us doing a graduation after a new one, when he had to interpretly read part of the text before the committee, there would be a lot of people who would not pick up all the points for interpretation reading. So much for reading, as far as the language level is concerned, that I do not comment further on the fact that those who receive Slovenian citizenship should read the whole of Cankar and the whole of Prešern, and I know what else. You know, when someone knows the statistics on how many books Slovenians on average read a year, I mean, pretty spells, then they wouldn't put up such an application. Because more than half of those polled according to statistics do not read more than one book or one book, which is a minimum standard, not to mention how other nations view this data. And they'd be worse if they didn't take young people into the sample. So you need to know what we're talking about. The second thing I would like to stress is that citizenship is not the kind of grace that someone with a gesture of grace gives to another. I would like to point out that the person who enters citizenship must fulfil the prescribed conditions by law and, if he fulfils them, it is only right that he is granted citizenship. Now to demand even a number of things extra, but I think it's a bit questionable. And I would only remind you of something. When a colleague of Potrč read statistics on how many words are in the oaths of individual countries, it seems interesting from this data that the most hospitable oaths in countries that do not have a long tradition - Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia, we are there from 60 words up. Traditional countries, if they have an oath, have a much shorter one. And that would make you think about it. It would be better to demand an oath that is short, which is easy to pronounce, and which, after all, with the weight of the covenant, is also a foot in the mind of the individual who says it, but not with the ornamented text that he will probably have to read many times to understand it - the one who says it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian national party to the first amendment to Article 3, unfortunately, we cannot support it. In our opinion, it is an oath of loyalty, an expression of patriotism. And if I may add as a justification, it was stated before me that it was an oath of some kind of fetish. You know, times change, people change with them, but at least the principles need to be maintained. And those of you today who advocate the shortening of this oath because it is full of certain ornaments seem to me that you do not follow the time and principles that you once lived by. I have before me, and I believe that most of us in the National Assembly have sworn at least three times in half-time history. Let me remind you: for the first time, when we were seven years old, we swore in three kittens one oath, which we were all proud of at the time when we were seven years old; when we were 14, we swore a new oath, to which we were all proud again, and it was six whales long. And when it came to a dance of a foreign language or a tank of a foreign language, at the age of 18, we had to swear again in a foreign language, and you know, even this language that we had to swear to at the age of 18, for many of us, it was not easy to pronounce. And that is why I think this principle, or that the new Slovenian oath we are introducing is an oath to the Slovenian people, a new Slovenian country, full of abbreviations, but only six lines long, not six kitties long, seems to me to be a humiliation of the Slovenian people. You know, principle! Some of you today who are advocating this amendment were then in a position where you could influence that all these three vows could be eloquent, would not be full of decorations, would not be full of vows and, last but not least, could be respected by someone. Then the wise did not come to your place to say, "One oath of a child at the age of seven is full of beauty." And we were all proud to stand, and we were all proud to repeat ourselves after those who had a function in primary school. You know, let the principles stay, because people have to change in the course of time, but let the principles stay. If a seven-year-old child can learn three queens of one oath, believe me, a foreigner will have to learn six lines to gain Slovenian citizenship. Slovenian citizenship may be for any of you - but for me and members of the Slovenian National Party there is not something you go to the store to buy, and you say, good day, give me 3 Slovenian citizenship and then I come out. No! No! That's something a man should be proud of! And the oath is the least, and should also have 12 lines, what someone who acquires Slovenian citizenship, who takes it, who has not yet had it, must do to become a Slovenian citizen. And perhaps the only positive feature of your amendment, if you change the words "obligation" and "obligation", that "obligation" was the first "obligation" and the second, you might say that it makes sense to some extent. You know, the duties of Slovenian citizens are those which some in this country, who may have been able to obtain Slovenian citizenship, are not aware of. First the duties, then the obligations and then the rights. That's right. Slovenian citizenship, I repeat, is not something to be sold on the road, it is not something that belongs to everyone. This could be the only positive feature if it was correctly written. Once again, we cannot support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. It may seem to some that this discussion of the text of the oath is irrelevant and unnecessary, but it is only worth repeating. Mr Zagorac spoke of some principles that are permanent and must be followed and of some spirit of time. I'm not sure I understood it correctly, but if I understand it myself, I will say, the establishment of the Republic of Slovenia, I also understand it in one part as a break with certain forms of which he spoke. The Republic of Slovenia has become a country of citizens. From this point of view, it was no longer necessary to swear either to Titus or to the party or, if I understand correctly, to put lives on the altar of the country when ex-JNA demanded it. This is, I'll say, this important difference and this discontinuity. What this text brings, however, is that in some twisted form it returns this language. A mix of concepts and from this point of view are these, I will say, oaths, we can say awkward if we had a serious social debate, and we would say that they are also very dangerous. They are dangerous because in a place where equality is spoken of, where freedom is spoken of, they introduce terms such as loyalty and country. Loyalty - I find it difficult to find any connection to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as far as the country is concerned, I suppose that those who seek their civil opportunities in the Republic of Slovenia do not necessarily have to give up their country. They can be citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and will have their own country. This oath is a mess, and that's not good. In fact, they force people to do something with a statement that they don't even apply for when they apply for citizenship. I don't know if Minister Mate understands this, but I'd like to see where he can draw the equation between the country and the country. There's no such equation. This isn't about the opposite, but it's about different concepts. The country connects with the home, connects with the family and the nationality connects with the country. These are different things and these are different existences that people live on. And when they apply for citizenship, they don't apply for a new home. Here's the shame of it. And if we're going to mix these things up, then I'm afraid that maybe with these concepts that bring anything else, we're going to be in a situation where the Slovenian state and Slovenian citizenship are not as attractive as they are at this point. And it can be, I'll say, the consequence of these kinds of concepts. It is not the problem that we sharpen these things, it may even be accepted that there is a need to say some text, perhaps, but that, as it is written, expects from the applicants something other than what the state can and can offer them. And here's the awkwardness of that text. I will say: with such an approach we will get over time citizens who will be different in position, some of us will be practically born into the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia; others will receive it on the basis of that law, which was a lot of talk, and where it was assumed that they had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on a certain date and applied for citizenship, and there was no need to make an oath; and third, who would apply on the basis of the amendment of the law and will swear. Whether we will be differently committed to these duties, to obligations to respect the constitutional order - I don't think so. If not, I don't know what the point is. If yes, then I do not know why, as Mr Zagorac says, at some point in time everyone does not specifically swear - so that there is no misunderstanding, I do not plead to respect the constitutional order. We're going to have three different situations, and I don't know what the consequences are if someone breaks the oath. At the moment, for example, there is a debate that the Constitution has been trampled in certain articles when it comes to the relocation of the Roma family from Ambrus to Postojno. This move is assisted by Minister Mate, who here expects others to swear to respect the constitutional order. He was kind of beating the constitutional order in Ambrus by not standing up for certain freedoms. Of course, nothing has happened, except that the shame of this fact has "slapped" far beyond the borders of Slovenia. Nothing even happened, given that the minister, like all the other ministers in this council, swore to respect the constitutional order. What's the point of such an oath if it doesn't have sanctions? That's what I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. I understand that in the background of this concept there may be a desire to have, as we would like to say here, we also want each other to be all large families, so that all of Slovenia will feel like a great home. But that's not the concept of the state. It is, I will say, a reasonable desire for whom, but a country with such desires cannot have anything and the state cannot become some kind of private institution, such as a family, a home and a sense of a wider space, as we say the country. That is why this oath is awkward, so this oath of Slovenia returns to pre-modern times, and in this sense it is dangerous. In this sense, it is not European and in this sense it is possible to return us even before 1990. Therefore, it seems to me that if we are looking for a text that must be more "constitutional", under the slogans, or we must have so much confidence when we let someone through the procedure of this admission into citizenship, that we can also trust him to be a citizen, not that we do not believe in him in advance, and we have this typical Slovenian lack of confidence that we expect him to commit something else in particular, and we think that everyone who asks has a fig in his pocket. In short, this matter is unnecessary, and I think it would be better if we withdraw it or rephrase it in such a way that it does not cause any misunderstandings that it will. There is no dispute that everyone can eventually learn and rebuff it; this can be expected. I know that for other reasons, many people have been granted Slovenian citizenship so that the colors of our sports team in some area could be stronger. At the time, people were not wondering whether they knew Prešeren’s cure, but, say, what sports achievements they were capable of. That's why it's a perverse situation where in some situation, we demand certain things from applicants, in others, when, say, we multiply our sporting powers, but not that. And that is not good, and I plead that we have greater confidence, as regards the civil rights and obligations of people living in Slovenia and those who would like to share citizenship with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u224	Replica, Comrade Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Madam President. You know, even for athletes, the oath is binding under this law. But in some part, I am not surprised that it is you who object or you feel that you have an awkward oath and patriotism of Slovenia; you probably have your reasons. If we remember those critical years, you were a little slow in your operation, you didn't know which side the wind was going to be blowing into, and you waited a little longer. It is true, however, that on the other hand it is interesting that it is you who oppose the oath, given that it is, I will say, a large part of my generation - I say a year plus or a year minus - I swear to you in my own oaths. You've been since kindergarten in some political functions in half-time history, and then we've officially written down to the president of a certain organization. And today it bothers you. It bothers you when someone who wants to acquire Slovenian citizenship, and you have said that it is not attractive. Of course it's attractive! It is attractive because, during its history, Slovenia has ensured certain privileges or Slovenian citizens: either for travel or for use of visas, or for whatever reason. Free movement of labour at the end of the ends you promised us. Of course it's attractive! Attractive is Slovenian citizenship and not to speak - and when I talked about principle, you see, just before I told you that we had sworn three times before, you did not find that controversial. You were also in a position where you could influence and say, this file, I have three here in front of me, but it's full of beauty, full of promise, I don't know what you've done - you haven't done anything. And you were talking about home. You know, home is a very relative concept. Home is where you create it. But the country has only one, and it is right that it swears to this country, and it also respects that oath. Someone who works abroad, not least a lot of Slovenians, is working abroad, but has a home where he created it, and has only one country. And I don't know why we should talk about it. And when you spoke of the connection of this oath, which is proposed by the law before us, to the Constitution. Let me know which Constitution the previous three vows were related to? The fact that I'm going to learn well - I don't know, I think there's some connection to the Constitution here and there's no connection to the Constitution. Even though those oaths were at their own time, in their historic time they were very fitting. And also this oath of Slovenia and the respect for the Slovenian democratic rule of law seems to me to make perfect sense. So please, at least keep the principle, I believe that people need to change, but keep the principle. Ten years ago, you represented one principle, and a little wind blows, and you're in other principles. Let's at least be here, I'll say, so much to ourselves honest, and stand up for the principles, and say, the oaths are those that matter, but it is that there is another state and another power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government. Initially, I do not support the amendments to Article 3, because I have a very different position from my colleague, Školč. I believe that we are considering the oath too formally, bureaucraticly and underlyingly, domestically and emotionally. Although the amendment of the Social Democrats is acceptable to me, when I weigh whether it is closed with a shorter or longer text and when I have read both texts more than once, I support the proposed text. And I'll tell you why. It is true, however, that he may add or take a word in this text, but it is a matter of personal taste, and above all, he can say something of a celebratory profession. And she was probably also present in this text. And as far as this is concerned, it is not essential for my debate. I do not agree with the amendments of the Liberal Democracy Club, from which it is clear that the Liberal Democracy believes that the oath of those who receive citizenship is unnecessary because they have already shown their intention to respect the constitutional order of the Slovenian State by asking for it. This claim is in no way sustainable, so I believe that the proposed text of the oath is appropriate and necessary, since we rightly expect the other citizens to express their intention to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia by oath. I have not heard anyone before today to oppose the oaths of the highest state officials: the President of the State, the President of the Government, ministers, judges. A few days ago, I even heard and saw the pledge of the new Ljubljana mayor. And all of these swear only for a term of office because they are expected to confirm in their term of office that they will work both for the benefit of Slovenia and that they will respect constitutional order and laws. I really don't understand what should be wrong if we expect future new citizens, by oath, to respect the principles of freedom and democracy and to fulfil their duties and obligations, and continue not to support actions against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The slightly longer text allows applicants only easier understanding of what it means to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, assuming they can read and understand Slovenian. An oath is a solemn moment for me, which also unwittingly touches the feelings of an individual. Therefore, it is right that it is celebrated and expressed in an appropriate solemn setting. Here I agree with my colleague Potrče, who has warned on his mother's working body that the official space in this case must be arranged, that state symbols are placed in it, and that the solemn oaths can also be attended by the relatives and others proposed by the person who asks for citizenship. I therefore also agree that the law authorizes the Minister of the Interior to regulate the manner and procedure of the oaths. I hope that most of us have been raised to respect democratic ideals, Slovenian values, that we simply love our country, by upholding the principles of freedom and democracy, while at the same time aware of our rights and, above all, of our obligations and duties. If all of this were an integral part of all of us in everyday life, it would seem to me that a lot of problems would be less or less. We have also been dealing with this in recent times. That the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia will be respected and that they will also love their new country, we can rightly expect people who would like to become our citizens. It seems to me several times that some do not at all appreciate what we have, our own Slovenia; that they care little about their people, culture, or culture. It seems to me that a sense of belonging to your country is lost, a sense of unity that it is not appreciated by our own people, that we are simply ashamed of our young country. As a result, statements or oaths would be completely unnecessary, unnecessary bureaucratic ballast. We forget that for centuries our ancestors dreamt of their country, today when we have it, some express very little respect and everything about it is irrelevant and even more unnecessary. To love your homeland is one of the fundamental values, and it is hard not to love your country. All exiled, displaced, immigrants, displaced and homeless people know that. The confident nations place much on their homeland, on national consciousness, on their national interest and on international recognition, and they do not at all deviate from it. On the other hand, too many occasions in our country: we are very eager to solve foreign cultures and foreign problems, which is nothing wrong if we are aware of our country's priorities, so it is a little too much for some to say that someone who would otherwise like to become a fellow citizen would also express their allegiance to their new country. Let us be aware, however, that we have our own country, be aware of what we have gained from it, what its political and social goals, Slovenian values and traditions are. To those who want Slovenian citizenship, let us allow them to feel free, equal and safe with us, while at the same time it is right to commit themselves by oath to respect our constitutional order and not to act against the interests of their new country, where the Slovenians are admitted. It would be too difficult to ask for it. I will not support the amendments contained in all the above-mentioned Article 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Drago Koren, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you, President, for your word. First, let me say that I will not support any amendment to Article 3 because I am convinced that the proposed text is fully satisfactory in the form proposed. Although I must, in principle, agree with Mr Potræ when he reasoned with Article 3 that the contents of the oath are either complete or, I would say, identical to this amendment proposal, which they propose to be only much shorter. I believe that in the case of an oath to acquire citizenship there is no need for rationality of words. I personally believe that this oath must also be solemnized and that it must be important for the giver that this must be a very important moment in life. It has been said that this proposed oath has even something dangerous in it, because it has the word of loyalty and country; I think that for many in the National Assembly, loyalty is still one of the values for which we are happy and proud to take up, and that it should be for everyone who wants to become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, loyalty and country also the highest value. That this must be a solemn event, I'll say it from one of my own cases or on two occasions. For me, such a life oath was also a decision when I decided to marry my wife. Even then, I made a fine oath, even in this oath was the word of loyalty, which I am still very proud of today. Mrs Potrata spoke earlier about whether it would be necessary to learn from these oaths or if it could be read. I'm going to say, it's not essential, depending on the person who's going to decide how he's going to take this citizenship that he wants to accept. I say, in my opinion, whoever really wants to become a real citizen will not find it difficult to learn six lines, but even though it may get stuck in the oath itself, he may even forget, and he will grunt - and I will say that on the case of the scouts. Every year I go on a scout day that's open to parents, where our young scouts make their vows. That's how they prepare for the week early, they learn, they must know all the days, but that moment at the oath itself gets stuck. But they take it like that important moment in their lives, that milestone when they move from one side to the other. Then - be prepared at all times. That Slovenian citizenship has been very attractive lately, I think everyone knows, is even more attractive Slovenian passport. I am very glad that there is a great interest in Slovenian citizenship, but I would be very disturbed if this were used for unfair purposes, if interest were really just a passport for easy passage around the world. And one more thing I wanted to talk to you about. It was said, "Yes, what will be the sanctions, what will be the measures if the one who gives it does not keep that oath?" In Novi Slovenija we had the password "the word is valid" and this password is still valid for me and I hope that those who will take Slovenian citizenship will apply their word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank many colleagues who have spoken honestly about our proposal. And I would say that those who spoke with the desire to politicize the problem or to devalue the proposal should consider their own deliberations. If an interlocutor who has arguments is not believed, this is his definition, not the position of the interlocutor. My only wish or desire of the Group of Members was to understand or try to understand that with the number of words and ornaments, you do not express your attitude towards the citizenship and the country in which you enter. But if many of you think otherwise, believe me, it will be accepted as most of you will think. I am truly convinced that the number of words does not help or harm. However, it was not our proposal not to take an oath or to underline the importance of the act in any way. Surely, for many people, this action will be of exceptional importance, I would like it to be as much of them as possible, for which it will be of minor importance or given from a certain form, take conditional advantage, but do not need to in a poor sense benevolence. He'll see an opportunity to provide himself with certain conditions. So at this point to speak exclusively and only about love, there's too much, there's an illusion that we're making, and I wouldn't want us to do it that way. I am sure that the politicisation of this issue makes no sense, and my personal conviction is that the text of the government proposal swears a few words, sentences, thoughts that do not belong there. Not according to the contents. However, in order not to start this debate again, I would rather avoid underlining this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u232	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. But I was disturbed by this amendment, or amendment, of both opposition parties, mainly because of the number of words you are encountering. For me too, the number of words is irrelevant, even less that this oath is not modern, because it has so many words - it has three sentences, if I have seen correctly. It's true that these sentences are a little longer. Above all, I was disturbed when one of the Members said that the Slovenian language was difficult, difficult to pronounce and that for many who ask for citizenship, this would be a problem. This bothered me - because they are asking for Slovenian citizenship, it is also one of the values of Slovenian language if you want to become a Slovenian citizen. Therefore, we will certainly not support these amendments from SD and LDS in Novi Slovenija, because it seems to us that the oath is fine as it is written, because it is indeed a solemn moment. And if you swear to your country and stop in the first sentence, and if you explain it in the next two, I don't think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u234	Ma'am mag. Spending, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u235	I did not talk about that Slovenian language being difficult to know. Go take a look, respectable Mrs Uhan, a magnetogram and you will see that even more times I have stressed that in order to enter Slovenian citizenship, those who want to become Slovenian citizens have to take the exam from the control of the Slovenian language. I do, however, allow me, in view of the expertise I have performed, but the professional comment that the ceremony of the moment may be related to the aestheticity of speaking the text. And this is, according to the experience of this hall, how some of the much shorter vows have been made, very difficult to reach. We want the text to be emotionally eloquent, that it is aesthetically read, that it radiates love, and that is, in the circumstances in which we are in, in such a long text, difficult to achieve. Whether I should remind you of the oath of the Bojan Cross at the Olympic Games when we all trembled, whether he could speak the text to the end or not. This is because we do not place the person who is supposed to have a glorious moment in his citizenship in a situation where he will not have a good memory at this moment, because he may be wrong in making an oath. And that's something to think about. And think about how many words we say we love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There are some things in these thoughts that have interfered with me. I am sure that no one has confused the text of the oath and that the text is purely normal, without confusion. On the other hand, I am very surprised that a slight physical injury to wealth and someone who would have already caused a physical injury in the country for which he wishes to apply for citizenship could have caused him or her to become a citizen. I don't know which master would take someone into the house, that one would "fuck" him, could cause him a physical injury, and then want to be a guest with that man. That probably wouldn't work. When there was so much talk about mercy, I would say that the state of Switzerland really takes this citizenship as a mercy. Those who get Swiss citizenship do almost look like that. But I don't think there's any need here and it's more about loyalty, gratitude and pride to get you citizenship. And I think that's what this thank-you or imprisonment, as we call it, defines. I don't think there's anything mixed up in this oath. I would say that being a citizen of a country or being a applicant is a big difference. Once again, the applicant for citizenship in Switzerland must not criticize the state, but the citizen can, without a problem. And then he'll be able to do the same. And while we're at it, when we're on our own, breaking a certain tradition, that's true. However, this does not mean that we have simply copied all the values and would now be in our country, because we have gained our independence from the previous one, where we had certain acts and certain vows that we do not agree with, but now we can work on our own. Anyone who could get across our border could do anything they wanted and get citizenship whenever they wanted. That probably doesn't work either. Some rules probably can, and not only can they, they must exist. It's about belonging to a country, about respect and pride that you've been given citizenship. Those who do not realize that it is by having received citizenship, that they can also be proud of it, and that they must be proud to respect this country, that it belongs to this country, that it is a member of this country, that there is something not 'comprehensible'. But if he thinks and feels that the only step is to get citizenship, to write a request, and to put a stake on it, ladies and gentlemen, something is not going on here. Getting citizenship is, I think, something strong more. And even with such an oath approach, I am sure that we want to say that we value ourselves, because if we do not value ourselves, others cannot appreciate us, that we appreciate what we have, and that we also expect those who will become new citizens of this country. If we and our countries do not appreciate ourselves, we cannot expect that from others. And we expect others to, so we must respect that. Therefore, such an act as it is is likely to be in this direction. If someone just gets a charter like that, he won't be able to appreciate it either. And if we ask those who will become citizens to appreciate this country, to be proud of it, I think we are not asking too much. I think we're demanding something purely normal, as others require. Because a few words about Ambrus were already allowed. And the connection with the minister, how something went wrong in Europe, I'll take a few words, Mr President. I'm not gonna take advantage of it, but if the others had any options, I'm gonna tell them what to slap on. I'll read from today's newspaper for a while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u238	Mr Petan, we are talking about the amendment to this article, so I would like to ask nicely - I have not led the meeting before - I think it would be wrong to start another topic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u239	Mr. Vice President, I respect your warning, but that's exactly what this is about. So believe me, I won't take advantage of it, but at least what happened today will be brief. It reads: "On the night of Sunday and Monday at 5 a.m., workers of the Bologna Congregation escorted the police from the emergency barracks settlement on the edge of the Navira River along a street of 123 Bulgarian and Romanian Roma, including 35 children and 14 pregnant women. It was a flashing action ordered by Bologna Mayor Sergio Coferatti, or the leader of a party of left-wing Democrats, that the living conditions were unsustainable. They were loaded on a plane waiting at the airport, and they returned to Romania before dawn." Where's the splash? This is also a Member State of the European Union. It's about citizenship - whether they had it or not, I don't know, that's how it happened. And that is the answer to what was said earlier about what the minister who sits here before us did. I think it is quite the contrary that what the Minister has done is proof that the Constitution applies to all the same things, both by rights and by duties, not only to certain rights, but to others only to duties. It's for both of us. And I think that's exactly what's been proven. And now, for the record, about Presherno Cankar, when I said before, I still think that the applicants should read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u240	Mrs. Bebler, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Petan, we didn't mix anything up about this oath text. But we said that it was too complicated, that it was too long, and I also said that it was modern, and I wanted to say that it was unmodern, in a second word. But you, Mr Petan, have confused a lot of things, even with the fact that you have quoted this article now, and you have believed that this is exactly what you are justifying. But no, because the ones he's talking about there weren't Italian citizens. Romania, by the way, is not yet a member of the European Union and so on. However, when I spoke of wealth, I said that we believe that there is no need to tighten the conditions regarding the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia by reducing the prison sentence imposed. See - and don't let Mr Šter blame me - the recently appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been sentenced to a prison sentence, a probationary prison sentence of one year. If someone who asked for our citizenship were sentenced to a probationary prison term of more than one year, it is said that he would be very close, he would not be able to apply for Slovenian citizenship. And as far as wealth is concerned in terms of criminal law, it is taught and taught by every student in the second year of the Faculty of Law, so they would not explain it here. It is essential that today’s modern state, if you want, or a modern state, is not based on certain precepts and vows, but on human rights, plural democracy and the rule of law. All we are proposing in this oath is all that is essential here. You're gonna vote what you want, and we're not gonna do that, either, I don't know what, but we're just saying that this is not necessary right now. You quoted Switzerland twice today. Yes, in Switzerland they have rather strict conditions for obtaining Swiss citizenship, but they have managed so much self-irony that they made a film in 1991 entitled how do you become a Swiss citizen? And they were making a fool of themselves of the conditions they set for foreigners to acquire their citizenship. Given today's debate, we obviously would not be capable of such self-irony in some film as to how you gain Slovenian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law that we are amending today is, I will say, one of those laws that I have already taken part in in that first version and practically in all subsequent innovations, perhaps with one exception, so I can very, I will say, qualifiedly talk about these things. Now I recommend to these trained historians and biographers that they check certain things in the records of the National Assembly. All these meetings have been recorded, and there are magnetograms and arguments that have just been made. The law was adopted by a large majority of Members in the three congregations of the congregation at that time, most of them had Demos, etc., that I do not say so much to Mr Zagorec, which I will say is between history and things that someone should or should not have done. As for what happened before 1990, it is necessary to say that the organisation that I belonged to put it, I will say, under the question of the two institutions that swore to them. One was the ZSMS, and you know that there was a very strong cult of the baton, which was completely dismantled by the youth organization itself in Slovenia and students, and this had other consequences. But I'm guessing maybe your memory doesn't go back like that. Second thing. The Yugoslav People's Army was also one of the targets of our then organization. Let me remind you of just two subjects that were big. One issue was the objection to conscience, where this particular oath and experience with Jehovah’s Witnesses insisted that this objection be brought about. And that was all before the beginning, I will say, the customers in Slovenia and before the constitutional changes that have also led to a change in the political system. Mr Zagorac, I have participated to my best in these processes, and if you are interested, there are thick books and even thicker records and there have been many in the police and other archives, because they were not oversatisfied with these activities at the time. By the way, I couldn't be an official at least in kindergarten because I was from a family like that and a place where kindergarten wasn't even supposed to be about others, and I'm gonna say, the prejudices that you're just thinking about your colleagues, I wouldn't talk about. What is true at this time of the oath is that we do not really want to talk with her about the fact that certain terms do not belong in such texts. That's what I'm talking about. I mean, when we discuss citizenship, words like, love like loyalty and so on, they don't have the right place. Someone can feel that way, but when these things are recorded in the files, it's with that, I'll say, there may be a problem. And I don't think it's wise for him to react as Mr Ljubeljšek did, because I remember right, but I apologize for going into our memories, but I think that in 1988-1989 there was a big debate in Belgrade about human rights and civil liberties. And the break-up of that conference took place right at the point when I asked my fellow Members to respect human rights, even in specific cases, without being able to accept a declaration, but not to ask, at the time it was the position of Kosovo President Mladina, who was replaced overnight, lost his job and so on. And then something like this happened to me today that someone in the jacket, like Mr. Ljublješek, had already drawn a replica. What I mean is that these things, when we talk about pluralism, about discussion, we need some discussions. I believe it's possible to suggest this, but believe me, it's possible to argue with this. And here it's not about any personal circumstances, but about the question of concepts and this concept, my fellows, I don't think it's good that it's, I'll say, premodern that I won't say old-fashioned, and it really pushes us into a family of unattractive countries. I was talking about this when I said that I was afraid that if things were to go as far as they were going to go at the moment when they might panic, God knows for some reason who would step back when he had to step forward with the police, that Slovenia would become one of those countries where people would wonder whether it was able to respect not only its Constitution but also its internationally accepted obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u244	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. I'm not gonna use the replica, just for starters. My dear fellow, you know, since history, someone who tries to forget is usually negligent. I, too, although I am among the younger Members of this Parliament, have my own history and I have lived even at a time when you were performing certain functions in that country. And there's no need to be ashamed of them. Indeed, these functions were needed, they had to be performed, the country was as it was. But if you've done anything in your personal history that makes you neglect or try to forget or hide in such and other hidden books, it's your problem, not mine. Don't tell me to read things like that. For years you have been allowed to participate in certain processes, functions have also allowed you, as you yourself have said, that you could participate in certain processes, and it is right that you are. You and the people living in this country know whether we have an opinion on how you worked together. Well, according to your belief, someone else's belief may be a little worse, but once again someone else believes you were scared. I have an opinion on this, and I don't think this amendment is the subject of us talking about it. But then we can sit in a coffee bar and we can clear these things up, given that in at least one of the functions you've been serving at the time, I swore to you as president. And if you don't believe me, I can also show you the card that I still keep as a precious memory today. Speaking of oaths, I believe that the government, this ministry and the law-makers, when they wrote the article on the oath, will not talk about any other articles that we will be able to say any more later, willfully write this text of the oath, willfully write this part of the patriotism that needs to be included or implanted in the head of someone who enters Slovenia as a Slovenian citizen or becomes its citizen. Above all, the content of this oath is important. It seems as important to me as the conditions to be met, for when a person swears to something in life, it is necessary to respect it, or at least to respect it. Therefore, the comparison, as someone gave it, about the marriage relationship, is not, the citizenship of comparing it with the marriage is more like that. We swear on people, and then we swear, or we swear again, or we don't. As you wish. So much for this marriage oath. These are very variable things if anyone mentions them. You also know, in history, people swore to a lot of people, to a lot of people, and then they were ashamed or not, what they swore. So it seems to me that the contents of the oath are one that is still important. If a person swears to someone or something, then he should respect it and be confident of what he swears. Someone in front of me was talking about the contents of the oath and I must say, there are people who in history have also sworn wrong oaths, including the occupying forces, and the almighty God, but I don't know who else. So they kicked into the darkness, and they didn't think enough, or they were forced to think. You see, there is also an important content of the oath, and those who have, I'll say, kicked into the darkness, we may return to another amendment. I never said the oaths were bad, but they have to be respected. It needs to be principled. If the vows were good before, then now that we are living in a new country, our country, in a Slovenian country, let them be as good as they are now, and let them be substantively clear that people will know what they swear. And I think that the proposal proposed by the drafter of the law is clear and specifies who is sworn by someone who takes Slovenian citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u246	Replica, Mr. Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the invitation to coffee, but I think it will be more useful, Mr Zagorac, if we go together to the documentation of the National Assembly, and I will show you at the time when these laws were adopted and you will easily find out what someone was defending. As for the continuity of the oath and the importance of the oaths, I insist that these oaths, especially those that are so written, are markedly pre-modern. The Lord is right to say that, on the other hand, he swore a socialist system in one version, the other and the third. But there was no problem and I think it is good that this happened so that there will be no misunderstanding that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have so collectively broken the oaths on the plebiscite for the Republic of Slovenia. There was no problem with that. What is asked as a question to me and where I also expect the Minister's reply is whether future citizens will be in a substantially different position to swear and those who will not give it, who have just been born in citizenship or who have obtained it on the basis of the provisions in force so far. Look, we're still in Slovenia to say clerics. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u248	Mr. Skolcz, you're spreading the replica to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u249	No, about the validity of the oath, I'll be very quick, I'm sorry, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u250	I'd like to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u251	See, we will find ourselves in a situation where new citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will not be allowed to speak against the 55th Article of the Constitution of Slovenia, if it is in force, Minister Drobnič, clerics and others can do so every day, and to their happiness, I will say, one of the constitutional rights is guaranteed. This oath is a confusion, and that's what I'm talking about, even if the Minister is quiet and doesn't explain the things he should be explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u252	Mr. Ljublješek, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u253	I'll be brief. Thank you very much. I'm not gonna argue with my fellow schoolboy. I am aware of what he was doing before 1990, even in 1991, and we will be able to deal with this when we consider the latest history of the new Slovenian or the first Slovenian country in this National Assembly. Today we're talking about an oath, and here are two concepts. His concept, which is a completely liberal concept: "border, state, border, constitution, law" - here sign and be a citizen. My concept, and my position is a little more emotional, domestic, national, that is to say, who wants to be a fellow citizen, who wants to share this country with my country, including my country, has to make a little effort to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you. I would just like to briefly explain one thing, given that I have been appointed here many times and few times in connection with this law, but with things that have nothing to do with this law, I will only stick to the subject that is on the agenda today. I must say that the Government considers that the text of the proposed oath is appropriate to fully reflect the interest and desire of someone who wishes to accept Slovenian citizenship, to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and to respect, of course, all the other rules in force in the Republic of Slovenia, so as a representative of the Government, I must say that the Government stands firm in the position that such a text is necessary and will show that someone wants to become a citizen. Otherwise, only one comment would be touched - the attractiveness of citizenship. I've never heard of any citizenship being attractive to anyone. Someone wants to acquire some citizenship because he actually wants to accept the values of this country and not to gain an attractive passport, so that he can travel more easily to other countries. Such applicants are not needed for citizenship due to the attractiveness of Slovenia. Slovenia needs citizens who will be loyal to this country and all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in whatever way they have become, have the same responsibilities and rights in this country, so that I can answer directly the question that was finally asked me, and it is obvious that I am not responding and I am not answering what they will be. By the way, there aren't three groups, there are four. If you count them correctly, you'll notice that you've missed one that's very large and it's been happening in the last 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would say that I do not see any parallels between the oath to be made by the potential holder of the new citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the oath made at the time of joining the army in our former common country and in which we in Slovenia were certainly committed to restricting this oath, because it was an oath of foreign troops. This was not the Slovenian army and even a little later it turned out that it was an enemy army that wanted to subdue Slovenia. But I'm getting more content. Mr Potrč wondered why it was also not believed that the shortened form, the reduced text of this oath, also led to the same goal, to the acquisition of citizenship. That's not what this is about. Of course, a shorter text also leads to this, since it is not dependent on this oath to acquire citizenship. This is just an act, an act that happens at this act of acquisition of citizenship, an event that highlights the ceremony of this event. It could also be practical to say in one word or in a few words that I accept the Constitution and acquire citizenship. But that's not what this is about. Even without it, it would be possible to get it, to get it. In front of the receptor, sign a statement and you get citizenship. But is that what we want? In the lives of every human being, some of the events that are particularly important to him and the environment are: birth, marriage, death, graduation, what I know if someone becomes mayor. These are all the events that will be remembered for the rest of your life. And it's normal for a ceremony to take place at these events. And, of course, part of the ceremony when it comes to obtaining citizenship is also a solemn oath. And I don't understand why it bothers someone, why they want to minimize it and say it, because that's enough. I think it is, however, an event which means for this man and also for the environment, some pride that you enter into a new period when you become a Slovenian citizen. And there's no need to be ashamed of it in any way and try to reduce the whole process as much as possible, the whole ceremony. I also agree that perhaps one of these new citizens will go into this process for the sake of benefit. But there can be no reason why there will be an anomaly in this system, that someone will take advantage of the system and, because of the beneficial inclinations, go to acquire a new citizenship to adjust the whole process. Surely this oath and this declaration he will make will mean nothing to him, for his inclination will be of benefit. However, it is an anomaly of the system, generally it will not be, but it will be people who will wholeheartedly be ready to take over their citizenship and use their new homeland. Therefore, an amendment that in any way diminishes this importance cannot be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Yeah.]] Check-ins are on the move. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister! I would like to take advantage of this time that we still have left in the New Slovenia Group of Members and somehow express a protest against what LDS Members are doing, who are taking every opportunity to attack Minister Drobnic here, even though he is not here. I would ask you once again not to speak of those who are not here who cannot defend all these accusations. And you take advantage of every opportunity to say something harsh, uncultured, undemocratic against the Mag. Oh, you little thing. Please! As far as this amendment is concerned, we will not support it, for this reason not, because if we look at the basic text in the bill, there are some very strong words written here: "I say my loyalty to my new country, the Republic of Slovenia." Isn't this aesthetically powerful, materially rich? I don't know what else it could be. Then there are words like freedom, democracy, duty and obligation. All of this is not in this amendment of the SD Group of Members. Therefore, what is enshrined in the basic text of the law is much more closely linked to what we would like to achieve with this oath than the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Of course, the question of whether an oath will be fulfilled or not is a completely different matter. Some swear to everything, but of course they don't stick to anything, and some swear to nothing and stick to everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u260	Mr. Gantar has the floor. You're giving up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have been talking for a while now, as if the essence of the whole matter or the novelty of the Citizenship Act was an oath, not an acquisition of citizenship. Those interested must first express their wish, then meet the conditions. And the length or shortness of the oath is probably not the key. But it is the conclusion of one procedure and the beginning of something new for an individual. Probably when we talk about this, we do not all have the same applicants in mind or we have different applicants, but I am sure that the descendants of Slovenian citizens and many others who want to acquire citizenship will swear to them even if it is a little longer and written as it is, it will not cause any problems. I welcome that the so far dry declaration that someone agrees with the legal order, which is correct, is replaced by an oath that actually says something more, especially to those who sincerely want to become our citizens. That is why I support the proposal of the Government and the SD amendment, but, as has already been said, it bothers me to speak with citizenship about all the current issues today, from the Roma to the payment of the abortion, and not about what this point is meant for.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you very much. At the end of this article, I would simply say that I am disappointed in the Minister's response. I wasn't talking about an attractive passport. That's what he was talking about. I was talking about an attractive country and citizenship. And I fear that the situation in Slovenia is diminishing the attractiveness of the country and, as a result, of citizenship. That's the first misunderstanding. Secondly, I would like to remind him that he has come to Parliament and answers to controversial concerns are expected here. He either doesn't want it or maybe he's not capable of it or maybe we don't understand it, and that's possible. But he only submitted a report according to his procedures, what the Government thinks, what the concerns are, he's obviously not interested.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u264	Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the word to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Justice Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Justice has drawn up two new proposals for a law in the field of judicial status or judicial organisation. The first is the proposal for the novel Law on Judicial Service. Their common aim is to include or improve those institutions in the legislation currently in force, which are at the moment most necessary to remedy judicial backlogs and which will give immediate concrete results. The proposal for a new Law on Judicial Service introduces certain amendments and additions to the applicable law necessary for the effective implementation of the Lukend project, the main objective of which is the abolition of judicial backlogs in the courts by the end of 2010. In particular, the proposal for a law includes the following solutions. The first simplifies the selection process by removing some administrative obstacles to the application. The second solution is of substantive importance, since it already stimulates a more ongoing resolution of cases defined as a judicial backlog, so that a judge appointed to a higher court office may, under the conditions laid down in the Judicial Service Act of up to two years at the same time, be assigned to a previous court if he solves cases which were assigned to him at the time of the service prior to appointment to a higher court post and are designated as a judicial backlog. This somewhat complicated doctrine means that a judge who has advanced to a higher court office continues to solve the cases assigned to him in the previous court seat and are defined as a judicial backlog. Such arrangements, on the other hand, should prevent the reading of files and the accumulation of older ones, as a rule of law, from very complex matters and from resolving them. The following solution constitutes a more detailed division of the criterion for the assessment of the judicial service, which adds a new independent criterion, namely the work done in eliminating and preventing the occurrence of judicial backlogs. This criterion of the Judicial Service Act is not defined as a separate criterion, nor is it further elaborated, and the proposal of the Act sets out this criterion as a separate criterion, which will determine in particular whether the judge solves matters in the order of order, while taking into account the number of cases allocated will also determine the ratio between the number of cases resolved as a backlog and the number of all cases resolved, these are also simpler cases, and the ratio of the number of cases solved to the number of important cases identified as a backlog and the number of all cases solved. This criterion will be particularly important in determining the conditions for the speedy progress of the judge and also for the exceptional progress of the judge into a higher title in accordance with the Judicial Service Act. The proposal is also introduced by the institute of an interdisciplinary judge, following a model of an already established institute of an inter-district judge. Its aim is to ensure greater mobility of district judges within the area of the same higher judge. The draft law also lays down the legal basis for an additional payment for an increase in the amount of work assigned to a judge assigned to the Constitutional Court, to the Ministry of Justice or to the Centre for Education in Justice. This provision seeks to increase the interest of the best judges from individual legal areas for the allocation to the institutions or bodies concerned in the preparation of the system legislation for the second advisory work for the Slovenian Presidency project to the European Union. The terms, criteria and extent of payment for the increased volume of work or additional workload will be determined by the Government by a regulation. The proposal also provides a legal basis for two types of reactivation of retired judges. Thus, a judge who is willing to serve as a judge until the age of 70 and who has retired before that time may resume his judicial function in the same or lower court, but only if he participates in the abolition of judicial arrears. In addition, the retired judge, regardless of his age, will be able to carry out the duties of official supervision or the tasks of the judicial administration. These tasks will be able to be performed by retired judges without an upper age limit, as it is not a matter of exercising the function of the trial. This provision relieves the duties of judges who, in addition to the function of the trial, exercise official control or the tasks of the judicial administration. This work requires a lot of extra effort and thus further burdens active judges whose primary task is to judge. In addition, through the activation of retired judges for the tasks of official supervision, other judges may be given priority to their task as judges.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u266	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. Please, Chairman of the Committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to Minister Sturm and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice and all those accompanying this meeting. At its 26th session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. In the context of the complementary explanation to the article of the bill, the representative said that the proposal for a law contributed to the changes necessary for the effective implementation of the Lukend project, the main objective of which was to remove judicial backlogs in the courts by 2010. The draft law also removes some shortcomings in the regulation in force and, following the example of existing institutes, introduces new institutes that will together help to improve the performance of the judicial function. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly gave the position of this service, in which he said that the key issue in the reactivation of retired judges was that judges who had retired had ceased to function under Article 74(1) of the current law and that he had therefore highlighted the opinion of that service whether it was a question of the legal power or the discretion of the legislator to determine the reasons. The representative of the Council of Justice, who also took part in the meeting, said that the Council of Justice supported the bill. With regard to the re-employment of retired judges, he said that the Council of Justice sees their role primarily in internal control, since there is a need in the Court to strengthen internal control both from a formal and a substantive point of view. In the course of the debate, he also explained that the allocation of heavier files to more experienced judges could be achieved through an annual work schedule, so that the allocation of cases remains random, which is in accordance with the right of a legal judge. With regard to the reactivation of retired judges, the representative of the Council of Justice said that the proposed solution was particularly welcome from this point of view that young judges in their department would be able to consult someone who already had experience. The representative of the State Council said that the State Council supported the bill and was somewhat skeptical about the possibility of reactivating retired judges. Following the discussion, Ministry representatives answered the questions raised. In particular, it was pointed out that the backlog decreased by 7% last year, as well as that tendering procedures for new judges were under way. They also explained that judicial backlogs actually eliminate the courts and judges, while the Government and the National Assembly create the conditions for their effective resolution by adopting and amending legislation. This year, therefore, the number of judges is increasing and an increase is also proposed in the following year. Above all, it is important that they have also worked intensively with the representatives of the judiciary, with representatives of the courts, the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, and that this way they try to remedy judicial backlogs, since the fact is that judges and courts are not only overwhelmed by judicial backlogs, but also by ongoing cases, as the case is large. Above all, the debate stressed that all of us who participated in the debate expect the positive effects of these changes. Thus, the Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition groups and, in the end, to all the articles of the proposed law together and is proposing them to this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, you have the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the LDS, we understand the intention of the proposer to speed up the abolition of judicial backlogs by re-entering the judicial function of retired judges who have not yet reached the age of 70 and thus to ensure more effectively the right to a trial within a reasonable time. However, we are confident and insist that the two objectives set must be achieved in a constitutionally correct manner and, if possible, solve any other problems related to the effectiveness of justice. Let me remind you that, with regard to this proposal that we are considering today, even the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out certain elements of controversy and inadequacy, which may mean that the proposed amendments in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system are not flawless or even more constitutionally controversial. First of all, it is disputed that the exercise of the judicial function of judges who have already obtained the right to a pension would be limited only to participation in the abolition of judicial arrears. If someone is a judge, it is the exercise of a judicial function with all the rights and obligations associated with that function under the Constitution and the law. It is clear that these judges we are talking about have ceased their judicial function under the law for retirement. In view of the legal consequences of the termination of the judicial function, however, it is also a constitutional provision allowing this retired judge to act as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, although Article 130 of the Constitution unequivocally provides that judges shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. Of course, there is also a dispute over the provision that each President of the Court could determine the scope and payment of work on his own and, in essence, again restricting the exercise of judicial functions in relation to the Constitution and the law. This proposed solution also contains several elements of the labour contract as well as elements of the judicial function in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In the LDS, we cannot support a law that already raises doubts at the very beginning, or is already highly likely to be inconsistent with the Constitution, which is not in violation of the "lege artis". In addition, we believe that more energy would be needed to seek solutions to attract and involve young judges and their assistants, which would also provide a more favourable perspective for an effective and professional competent judiciary. During the summer, 91 free judicial posts were opened and 267 candidates applied. I suppose those who qualify for judicial office. In addition, the retired judges referred to in this bill had already decided once to retire, although they had not reached 70 years of age and could therefore still work as judges. We have doubts, we have serious doubts, which, last but not least, we have been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and therefore we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u271	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister with the co-workers! In the Social Democrats' parliamentary group, we conditionally support the bill's proposal. Why conditional? Because we do not want our decisions to question efforts in any way and even more than efforts to assess them, the conclusions that we are hampering the abolition of judicial backlogs and the search for solutions to do so, and because the warnings given by the Legal Service and the Council of Justice of the day have been given, I would say, in a very restrictive way. Therefore, we would not want to be the ones who judge whether something is sufficiently regulated or not. But we do have our concerns for individual solutions. Let the Government which has proposed be responsible for constitutional correctness and implementation. We believe that this point will raise the question that the Constitutional Court will have to examine it. Otherwise, Mr Justice Minister and also the president of our committee have told us where the news brought by the law is. In particular, it wants to provide more new forms that will help to resolve judicial backlogs through the mobility of judges, through greater emphasis on the quality and quantity of their work related to judicial backlogs, through the introduction of also flying documents, so that even if the judge is moved to a higher or named higher rank first, according to the local word, he must clear up the backlogs and not leave them to the one who comes with him and so on. With regard to the introduction of judges who have retired before the 1970s or over the 1970s, detention to this solution is conditional. However, we believe and hope that the possible regulation of this issue, if successful, will turn the government away from the proposal to introduce an even more constitutionally new institution of judges with a limited mandate, which, according to the Group of Members, would be even worse, simply an even more controversial solution. However, it would be useful to know whether the number of judges at their disposal is of interest or whether the conditions under which they will be reactivated will be such that they represent sufficient motivation to make such work and new activity truly interesting. And it would be useful to know whether, when properly regulated, the government will give up its ideas for further constitutional changes. Finally, let me not be too unfriendly, but every year we have changed the regulations governing the situation, the rights, the options, I am thinking mainly of the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts, which I will not talk about. The last amendment to the law that we are currently considering was made in February 2006, I would like to see it slowly come to a stage where we find that we have done everything we need to and that we can certainly claim that the work in justice will be effective, quality in terms of content and procedures and that we can say that we have settled this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act are somehow complemented by amendments to the Courts Act, which will be the subject of the next item. In the New Slovenia Group, we view changes to the law as welcome, and we see this in particular because it provides the basis for better organisation and therefore better content of the work in court. The most important issue has been the reactivation of retired judges on the Committee, as has already been the case today. They will, of course, be able to perform the work of official supervision, the execution of the tasks of the judicial administration, or to perform the judicial function of remedying the judicial backlogs if they decide to do so and return to the judiciary. We would like to point out that the possibility of reactivation of the most experienced judges is opening up here, so we do not see any fear in the parliamentary group that the courts will experience a surge of retired judges. Above all, it is not the fear that some have expressed that young people here would not have had access and opportunity to enter the judicial or judicial system. In the New Slovenia Group, we stress that we must speak with responsibility about these matters and, above all, stress that calls for new judicial posts have already been published this year and are expected in the following year and also in 2008. Here it is necessary to ask whether such an option has ever been given to enter the judiciary not only for young people but also for those who, in the framework of their professional careers, decide for this city. Above all, it must be stressed that this is possible for all those judicial backlogs that stand in the courts to begin the ongoing liquidation. The possibility for more experienced judges to be involved is welcome, as they can help solve cases more quickly with their experience, since it is often the case that judges - beginners receive cases of over-requirement and therefore the proceedings last longer, and this is not in line with the principle of the right to a trial without undue delay. In Novi Slovenija we also find it very important to change the provision of Article 6 which stimulates the ongoing resolution of matters. The judge, who will move forward to the higher court seat, who will have a case defined as a judicial backlog, will remain in the existing place after the President's decision and, above all, will determine how many old cases he has to handle and what will be the new case, of course, for a limited period of time. The purpose of this change is not to make it easier for judges to handle cases, but to leave them more difficult in the drawer and somehow to await their successor. In practice, it was somewhat established, as it was heard, a very irresponsible way or practice, when his older colleagues assigned to the judge the initials files they did not want to deal with themselves and got rid of them. To date, the assessment of the judicial service is accompanied by information on the proposals submitted for official supervision of the judge and information on the number of requests he has decided or still has decided on and decided on by the European Court of Human Rights. Greater transparency of the promotion criteria is also important, which means a greater commitment to the quality of the work of judges, which is important for the legal security of parties exercising their rights. At the same time, the introduction of the institute of file mobility also introduces the mobility of judges. In the light of all the proposed changes in the New Slovenia Group, we consider existing changes as welcome. The changes will have a certain effect on the escaped, particularly underlining the "net" in certain courts. Where things are already going well and in accordance with all laws and practices, this will only be a welcome and transparency for all equally. We will therefore vote in favour of amendments in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Prevc, please, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial service is another novelty that follows the objective of reducing judicial backlogs. The Lukend project, which is being implemented to reduce judicial backlogs, has already led to a number of legislative changes, particularly in the field of judicial proceedings, alternative dispute resolution and the organisation of courts. The provisions of the Judicial Service Act also contain solutions that impede the effective resolution of judicial backlogs or prevent a more effective performance of judicial service. The proposed law simplifies the procedures for running for judicial office and more precisely regulates the criteria for assessing the judicial service. Both solutions bring certain simplifications and are good. A new criterion is also introduced to produce an assessment of the judicial service, which is the work being done to eliminate and prevent judicial backlogs. The abolition of judicial arrears is, of course, difficult for an individual judge who is very burdened by current cases. However, it is more important, in our view, to prevent new backlogs. Only in this way will the number of judicial delays be successfully reduced. A more balanced burden on individual judges or the easier passage of judges between individual district courts will be assisted by an institute of an interdisciplinary judge. The proposed law was also supported by the Council of Justice and the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter drew attention to the issue of the so-called reactivation of retired judges. In our view, this is an imaginary solution, which certainly raises certain questions and dilemmas. So far, a number of measures have been taken to reduce judicial backlogs. These, according to the Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, have also actually decreased. As he said at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy last year, the backlog decreased by 7%. Such a reduction in backlogs is certainly a good result. However, we are asked whether, with all other measures, the reactivation of already retired judges will produce significantly better results than the courts achieve under all other measures. This measure must not mean that fewer new judges would be appointed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law despite some concerns about the reactivation of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u277	Dear Vice President, present! According to an assessment or according to the position of the Slovenian National Party, the whole case related to the functioning of the judicial service, the issue of accession and the question of perception - and I do not want to be offensive to any - situation. As long as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia implements its judicial policy in the field of approach to reduce judicial backlogs, it does not, of course, recognise that this increase in employees in this area is the reason, if this is the basis for the proposal of the law before us today, then of course this is the wrong approach, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. But if we come from that area or the foundation that none of us can throw away, it is that we still have a huge, excessive number of judicial backlogs in Slovenia and that, in real terms, according to the number of employees and the number of relationships they do not reduce, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should expose or use a better and better approach. This approach is, of course, a limitation of the judicial mandate or judicial function. In the context of the National Party, we still firmly believe that this is the only right approach or that it would be the only right approach to show in the effectiveness of the judiciary. We therefore assess that the measures set out in the proposal for a law before us today, namely the promotion of the employment of young judges, while the law makes it clear to them that they do not believe in their quality and that, in return for their lack of knowledge, retired judges will be employed, according to our assessment, we can come up with this measure, i.e. age measures on the one hand and youth, an increase in this number within the service, to the reduction of judicial backlogs, but only through some kind of statistics. According to our assessment, however, such statistical, unrealistic data should not be a satisfactory reason for us to raise our hands, of course, for this law. I therefore reiterate that, at least as far as the Slovenian National Party's Group believes in measures, even though these would be inappropriate for a number of people within the Ministry of Justice, or not least within the judiciary, this is a limitation of the judicial function. As you probably know, we have raised a proposal for constitutional changes in this area several times within the framework of the parliamentary group. However, I believe that in the future - and if not in the next two years, and certainly in the next four years - the National Assembly, the newly appointed National Assembly, will change the content of the Constitution in that area. However, let me point out one more criticism and one more flaw, in particular with regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has previously warned us of the irreconcilability of the law, or the possible question of the law with the highest legal act, that is, with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in relation to the overall status of the individual judge. On the other hand, allow us to point out, at least after our assessment, a very important fact, which is unfortunately not within the scope of this law. It comes from the period 2000 to 2002, the so-called Twining Project, where the European Judicial System monitors recommended 32 measures. And we can safely say that this law, which is before us today, does not follow any of these 32 envisaged or recommended measures. In this place, of course, we are disappointed that the bill does not contain the so-called prohibition of optional work of judges, because the fact is that in the last 8 years, within the framework of the operation of the most executive branch of government, the legislative branch of the government has appeared a so-called optional work, when judges, in addition to their work, are also working for the legislative branch of the authorities and are executively aware of the authorities of individual ministries. From this title, taking into account their employment, the employment shown in the interest of the additional payment, it is no wonder that we are facing such judicial backlogs. Once again, I stress that the solution is not only to reduce judicial backlogs in the employment of retired judges or, on the other hand, to pardon conditions for younger judges, but mainly in the quality of work. From this title, we also find it very funny that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in explaining its material under point 2.2.3, "stimulating the current resolution of matters" provides that only by appointing a higher function can someone make a positive solution; it is unacceptable and we do not support the law in this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Because of the close link between this and the bill that will follow, the position that I will present will apply to both of them, and in this way I want to save myself a few minutes and save myself another performance today. The law, however, is subject to certain conclusions which could be summed up in this way. The situation in this area is relatively poor. Changes - more or less radical - are necessary and the execution of a judicial function is not effective enough to be satisfied. Unsolved matters are one of the central tasks and problems of both the government and the ministry, they are unacceptable because they reduce legal certainty because they reduce confidence in the justice system, because in the end we are also threatened with penalties that we will have to pay or already pay for because of such things. According to our judgment, the government and the ministry have set themselves a relatively optimistic, perhaps even overly optimistic plan. With Lukendo, which will soon come this year, we are supposed to put an end to the backlog, but we would like to say, good luck on this path. It wants to do so with some systemic measures, with some partial measures. While we will support this, we also have a few minor concerns that some of us have to mention. The proposals of the Government concern in particular the position and functioning of the judges. This way we can understand that one of the main points of change is the issue of criteria for awarding judges. All of this is about overcoming the backlogs. That the career system of judges is at the forefront of additional payments and awards, including the abolition of judicial arrears, that the high office also has a new proposal for interdisciplinary judges, for flying files and for the establishment of new courts, and that it appears that much more will be invested in judges and for their better competence and education. Not just the judges, but the others in the judicial system. We see that to a large extent our judicial system also helps itself with non-judged public workers, but they can help to carry out their work in the judicial system. In this regard, the Institute of Reactivation of Retired Judges was the most interested. The DeSUS party and the parliamentary group have no objection to allow older people who are able to continue working, although in some other laws we prevent this for civil servants, which we do not agree with. However, we estimate that this outcome is non-systematic, that it is an emergency exit. We are acting in distress because we cannot build a career-based reward system and everything else on how we will be successful by eliminating backlogs or not, what will then be the criteria when there are no backlogs. Well, we know it's an ad hoc solution, but unfortunately we can't avoid it. What will happen in the future is not exactly accurate, but the monitoring of the appointment of judges in the National Assembly notes that it is a matter of appointing relatively inexperienced new judges or mostly judges. This is a major feminisation and we can find that the average estimates of those who are appointed are indeed very average in the study or in the performance of the state examination. I hope that that large number of new ones predicted as judges will be the best shot we can get. We see that we depend largely on the way in which the award is to be awarded, so money helps to remedy the judicial backlogs, how the career system will help do so, what powers the Presidents of the courts will have and how we will more or less successfully organise the work. Therefore, our Group of Members will not object. Conditionally, we too can say this, we support this as an ad hoc solution with the thought that this is an emergency exit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports any changes to the current legislation that go towards remedying judicial backlogs. The law under consideration is one of those which, on the basis of the implementation of the Lukend project, enables the effective resolution of judicial backlogs. The measures and legislation already adopted by the Government have made it possible to reduce judicial backlogs in the last year. The Court and the Judges are those who can remedy judicial backlogs, and the Government and the National Assembly, by adopting appropriate legislation, only create a condition for their effective resolution; and the proposed law contributes even more to the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs. In this respect, certain shortcomings have been addressed in practice and the proposed law also introduces new legal bases for a more effective exercise of the judicial function. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party welcome the fact that the proposed law removes certain administrative obstacles to the application of judges' nominations, thus simplifying the procedure for their appointment. It is also true that judges will be motivated and stimulated to deal with pending cases that are defined as a judicial backlog; that appointed judges will continue to resolve the cases assigned to the higher court until then, which are defined as judicial backlogs. The introduction of District Courts, which will ensure greater mobility of district judges, will also increase the speed of resolution of judicial proceedings. It is also understandable that judges who will be particularly financially stimulated by the increased volume of work will do this work with greater enthusiasm than any other, and this will also reduce judicial backlogs. Among the important conditions for enhancing the effectiveness of judicial work is, in our view, a more precise definition of the criteria for assessing judicial work, including the work done by the judge in eliminating and preventing judicial backlogs. In terms of increasing the effectiveness of judicial work, we also feel that the introduction of a legal basis for reactivating retired judges under 70 years of age, despite some concerns. On this basis, good and experienced retired judges will be able to resume their judicial functions in the same or lower position as before, if they solve cases that represent judicial backlogs; and this will not be the case, as has been said in some cases, for the seizure of work to young judges, but it is an option that can only be used where they are "stamped" with judicial backlogs. In this case, experienced former judges will be able to ensure that these arrears are remedied as quickly as possible. Such cooperation may be decided by the President of the Court, who will also conclude an appropriate contract with such a judge for a maximum of half the working time. As Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have said, we believe that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Service Act, which we are considering today, is an important contribution to the achievement of the objective, the abolition of judicial backlogs, and that is why we will also support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u282	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor, the National Assembly! In particular, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts includes the following solutions: It complements the record of the effectiveness of the work of the Judges and the Courts with data on the number of cases resolved and outstanding, which are defined as a backlog. Data on the number of cases resolved and outstanding, considered to be a backlog, are an important statistical indicator in the elimination of judicial backlogs, and also play a role in determining the number of courts and indirectly also in establishing criteria for the minimum expected scale and criteria for the quality of the work of judges for the assessment of the judicial service. In this way, they contribute to a more comprehensive definition of the effectiveness of both the work of the judges and the work of the courts as a whole. The following amendment reinforces the role of the President of the Court in the administration of the Court by delegating the powers to appoint and dismiss the Head of the internal organisational unit and to establish an annual timetable for the work of the Judges from the Personal Council to the President of the Court, while also burdening the work of the Personal Councils and its members, i.e. judges who are already burdened by the formulation of reasoned opinions on the suitability of candidates for judicial office as well as by the making of assessments of the Judicial Service. However, in view of the amendment of the powers to adopt the annual schedule of work of judges, the law also confers on the judge the right to appeal against the deployment, namely the Personal Council, but directly the Supreme Court, or, in the case of the Supreme Court, the Personal Council of the Supreme Court. The proposal amends or complements the conditions for the appointment of judicial experts. The Courts Act lays down the conditions for the appointment of a judicial expert, a judicial assessor and a judicial interpreter. The conditions are also the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and impunity. The proposed law complements or amends this condition by stipulating that a candidate may have either the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia or the nationality of an EU Member State or of a European Economic Area State, thereby aligning those provisions of the Courts Act with Article 39 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which lays down the principle of free movement of persons. This will increase competition between experts, evaluators and interpreters, while allowing for as many legal interpreters as possible. In addition to the above-mentioned cross-border and interdisciplinary judges, the bill also introduces a new institute of so-called flying documents. These ensure greater mobility of the cases themselves between the courts of the same level, but within the area of each higher court. This is an institution which, with a view to eliminating judicial backlogs, will make it possible to increase the burden and balance of courts of the same level, as annual statistics show that the courts of the same levels are very different. Moreover, these data show that the number of new cases against a judge in the most burdened courts is increasing faster than in less burdened courts. In the light of these findings, the proposal for a law provides that the President of a higher court may, on a proposal from a court with a backlog, transfer the jurisdiction to another less burdened court without the consent of the parties. The final draft law also defines the exclusive local competence of the District Court in Ljubljana to decide on proposals for enforcement on the basis of a authentic instrument and on objections to a decision to enforce on the basis of a authentic instrument, which will constitute an important burden for the implementation of delays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u284	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you so much for the last word at the end of today, but not insignificant. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 26th session. The representative of the applicant explained and explained the additional purpose and purpose of amending the law. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also participated. This said that all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service in its written opinion would be taken into account by the amendments to Article 2. A representative of the Council of Justice also took part in the meeting. This said that the Council of Justice supports the proposal of the law. With regard to individual solutions to the proposal for a law, he said that the Council of Justice supports the decision on court performance records, which is now linked to the criteria for drawing up the assessment of the judicial service. Regarding the transfer of competences for the creation of annual work schedules from the personal councils to the President of the Court, he said that, although the scratch so far did not cause any more serious problems, they do not object to this solution. With regard to the so-called flying documents, the Council considers that this measure, together with the others provided for in the proposal for a law, is one of the contributions to the greater balance between the burden of individual courts in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Presidents of the higher courts, however, will have to judge, when deciding on the transfer of the case to a less burdened court, that they will mainly move those files that will not cause substantially higher costs. With regard to centralised decision-making in a certain part of the enforcement procedure, however, he assessed or expressed the view that there was a need for something to be done in this area due to large judicial backlogs in order to expect the best possible effects of this centralisation. In the context of the debate and the vote on the amendments, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and adopted all the remaining articles of the law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs Dolinar, you can continue to present the views of the Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you. In our New Slovenia Group, we also assess the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts as a tendency to normalise the situation in the courts. Above all, they are trying to speed up judicial proceedings, increase the efficiency of the work of the judges and also increase the role of the Presidents of the courts. As early as 2004, the Slovenian Court of Justice prepared a pilot project which could, under certain conditions, move files from more burdensome courts to less burdened courts. This project, however, provided for restrictions on civil procedures. However, the copies could be transmitted in the area of the Supreme Court. The amendments to the law that they are considering today are now taking a step forward, and by law amending the law they introduce the migration of files, the so-called mobility of the files, from more burdensome courts to less burdened courts, otherwise within the purview of the Supreme Court. There is no doubt that we support this in the Group of Members. Here, on the one hand, it is an upgrade to the project that has already started, with the start of a judicial society, and above all yesterday on the strategic council of the judiciary there was also a speech on the mobility of judges and also on the mobility of the files. The Strategic Council of the Judiciary leads or is chaired by the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, and I must express my satisfaction that in the last two years, the responsibility of the judges and their participation in the resolution of judicial arrears has increased; and this gives me with some optimism that we can actually succeed and successfully implement the Lukend project. In the New Slovenia Group, we also make a positive assessment of the changes, while the President of the Court will also have more responsibility for effective work in court. The President will thus set out the annual timetable for the work of the Judges and will also set aside the heads of the internal organisational units. It is right that those who know the situation in court and know the best about the actual situation are also best aware of the hidden reserves, and in our Group of Members we expect them to be properly used at all levels, both in the work of the judges, in the work of the professional staff and also in the work of the administrative staff. The law also complements the record of the report on the work of judges and courts with data on the number of cases resolved and pending, which will be defined as a backlog. By means of a record, the President of the Court will make it easier and more evenly divide the burden of an individual court or judge. We also welcome the expansion of the possibility of candidates for experts, valuers and interpreters. In the New Slovenia Group, we will be pleased to support the planned changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u289	Thank you very much again for your word. The Law on Amendments to the Law on Courts follows the same objective as the Law on Judicial Service previously dealt with. It's about reducing the judicial backlog. The draft law complements the performance record of the work of the judges and records of the efficiency of the work of the courts, strengthens the role of the President of the Court and introduces the Institute of Flying Files. In addition, the law is aligned with some other laws, including the law that we have dealt with in the preceding paragraph. The proposed amendment is supported by both the Council of Justice and the Commission for the political system of the Council of State. In the parliamentary group, we hope that the amendments introduced by the new Law on Courts will at least help to reduce the judicial backlog. In view of the fact that we have already adopted so many amendments to the laws with a view to reducing judicial backlogs, we expect that the results will be evident in the coming period. Otherwise, it will have to be very serious to ask where the reasons for the existing situation in the judiciary are. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again greeted colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts is also one of those laws that contribute and enhance the effectiveness of the courts in the trial and thus, of course, in the resolution of judicial backlogs based on the Lukend project. We therefore support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In this respect, in our view, the role of the Presidents of the Courts in the conduct of the Courts to which they preside should be specifically highlighted. This means that the President will assume greater responsibility for their work and, of course, for the work of the entire court leading him by assuming greater powers in the appointment or withdrawal of the heads of internal organisational units. He will certainly place professional and capable people in these places who trust them, for he will know that he will take responsibility for their work as well. This has not been the case so far, and the work has often been inadequate and the President has not been responsible for this either. The President will also take over the competence to determine the annual timetable for the work of judges, which has until now been the responsibility of the Personal Council. It is also important to update the records of the efficiency of the work of judges and of the courts. On this basis, criteria are laid down for the minimum expected scope of the judge's work and, with good records and precise criteria, it will also be possible to better monitor the work of judges and courts and, on this basis, to take appropriate action with a view to enhancing their effectiveness. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree with the amendment or completion of the conditions for the appointment of judicial experts, on the basis of which an expert may also be appointed a citizen of another Member of the European Union. This will provide a greater choice of quality experts, which will indirectly enable more professional work, which will also increase the effectiveness of the trial itself, which we have sometimes missed in the past. The so-called flying writings are also an important step towards greater efficiency of the trial. In this way, a more balanced burden on the courts of the same rank can be established, and this will certainly allow for the reduction and elimination of judicial backlogs, since in such a case, the President of the Supreme Court may, on a proposal from the Court of Justice, delegate jurisdiction to a particular number of cases to another less burdensome court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the amendments under consideration will further rationalise the work of the courts, which will become more effective. In this case, the rakrana of the Slovenian judiciary, these are judicial backlogs, can also be healed, so the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will also be supported by the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u292	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. I am finalising the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the session today in the framework of the vote - in half an hour, that is at 18.25. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u293	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 86. The application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be pending. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have considered a law that has come into the procedure only because modification is needed or, as you like to say, an update with the European Community Directive. And again, today's marginal theme was data storage, the main topic. But that's not the main theme of this law. The most important topic would be the amendment to Article 86, which, thank God, you supported, and this is the removal of injustices and illegal places of the country to users. We have hundreds of millions of claims in the country to users of the lower social class who are unable to pay accounts for which they are not at all responsible, nor are they liable. And I would be happy if this amendment, which I proposed on the working body, was adopted by a large majority; but I know that the law cannot regulate matters backwards. The Minister’s words today are also encouraging, however, when he said that they would try to settle the matter with Telekom in some way in order to see this write-off of the claims in this title. It's a shame to have a single mother state-owned company that owns 100 percent of the country send a bill for a million tolars. And then we leave this same family to the court's protection, which we know is how it works slowly and how it grinds slowly. She has to hire her own lawyers, and the question is, how will the court decide? But it's not even her fault that someone from third world countries broke into her analogue line and actually caused her this kind of bill. However, when there was talk about the need for public water in line with the directive to relax when there was talk about T-2, about the competitor, then Telekom could find the opportunity and the opportunity and put all the protections on his lines and did not allow public use of these waters. But when it comes to a user, it can't happen. I hope that this amendment will be adopted in such a form as has also been confirmed on the home working body, and that we will impose on operators the duty to protect them, to place protection on the input components when it comes to protecting the user, and to prevent intrusions on internet connections. This is the main objective of this law, not the storage of data. The police should be more up-to-date. We know that the police are not trained for this type of crime, which is very largely also in electronic media, and will not in fact need to reduce these times.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Bojan Homan. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Geza Juban. [[He's quitting.]] Please, let me remind you sooner so we don't call each other. I understand that we can vote. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 92. Report. Mr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the LDS, we call on all Members and Members present to support our amendment, which reduces the time of storage of processed data with regard to the provision of publicly available electronic communications services from 24 months, as proposed by the Government, to 9 months. We are assessing ourselves and it has been shown in the debate that there are no security-policy or, I do not know, what reasons to justify such a long-term storage of a whole type of data and thus, of course, interfered with the privacy and privacy of the users of public telecommunications services. No reports, no research has been shown to us that the situation in Slovenia from the point of view of crime or potential terrorism is so serious and so severe that it requires the maximum possible period provided by the directive. At the same time, it is clear that these data are sensitive and that longer than the duration, there is a greater risk that these data are used and misused for purposes for which they are not naturally collected and stored. That is why I think it is right, when we talk about certain limitations on rights and freedoms, that we limit them only to that urgent, the most extreme limit that allows us to ensure our goals and to fulfil the requirement of freedom in this society. That is why I propose that we support this amendment, and I call on everyone else to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u297	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, chairman. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that the third reading of this Act be carried out at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u299	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the Government proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on this proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 6. (For the vote was 57.)(against 6.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday, 24 November 2006, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on and on with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda - second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on municipal registrarship. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. (For the vote was 25.)(against 44.) I'm sorry. Has the vote run yet? I note that the amendment has not been adopted and therefore the amendments to Articles 12, 13 and 16 become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 12. Excuse me, we are going to Article 16, the second amendment of Article 16, which is the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 9. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 28 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 48. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please, Minister Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that the third reading of this Act be carried out at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. As the proposed decision is not adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 5. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes exactly the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second consideration of the draft feed law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 17. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I'd ask for peace, because that's how a person can get it wrong. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please, Minister Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u302	Thank you. I also propose for this law, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly carry out a third examination of this law at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the Government proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal: a decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday, 24 November 2006, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 26 to 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 2 of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, 24 against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 3 of the LDS Group. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour and 24 in favour against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the heading 4 of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, 24 against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted for 20, against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 8. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, 23 against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Friday, 24 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 52, for 10. (For the vote was 52.)(against 10.) Dear Members and Members! I have kindly warned you that we are voting, deciding, and I have also asked for peace in the Chamber. With this unrest and the laying of hands to see them, please forgive me, it is difficult to follow your demands. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. Check-in is on. On behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs. Beblarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. I raised my hand earlier, under the previous law, because we also said in explanation of the position of our Member Club that the Law on Judicial Service is constitutionally controversial for us and therefore, in some way, unacceptable, because we do not want to adopt its law at the very beginning, which contains the constitutional dispute "the lege artis" is not irreparable and therefore we cannot give our vote for such a law. Now, because it is the Law on Courts, which is linked to the Law on Judicial Service, we can give much less support to this law. We have witnessed quite a few changes to the laws on courts, and it has always been the same purpose that the Minister of Justice has strengthened his powers and powers vis-à-vis the judiciary, that he has established more powers in the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, and now he has given these Presidents of the Courts, which, of course, he chooses in his own image, more powers as they then act and regulate the administration of the courts. That is why this law is also unacceptable to us, and we are convinced that this manner, which we have witnessed recently in the ongoing changes to the laws of the judiciary, is not good and, of course, does not lead to the principle of respect for the division of power, legislative, judicial and executive, and that it is indeed a matter of preparing a territory where executive power has increasing opportunities and opportunities to strengthen its influence on justice, which, in principle, must be independent and independent. Therefore, our parliamentary group cannot support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u305	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 18. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
