ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Good bye to all of you! Honourable Members, honourable Members, High Guests, Government Representatives, Fellow Members and Fellow Members. We are pleased that, after Slovenia has become a member of the European Union, we can now, for the first time in Ljubljana, host the President of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso. I also welcome the Vice-President of the European Commission, the Commissioner for Institutional Relations and Communication Strategy, Mrs Margot Wallström, the European Commissioner for Science and Research, Dr Janez Potočnik, who is about to enter, the Head of the European Commission's Representation in Slovenia, Mrs Mihaelo Zupančič, and the other escort. I would ask Mr Barroso's guest of honour to address the House of State from the floor, then Mr President will also answer the questions raised by the groups of Members. Mr. Barroso, the pay phone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members! First, I would like to express the great personal satisfaction that I feel at this moment when I speak to this House and thank you for giving me this honor. This is my first official visit to Slovenia as President of the European Commission and I am really excited to be with you today. I am also pleased to speak to you today, the elected representatives of the Slovenian people, because I want the Commission to have close contact with the national parliaments. It is important that we have direct contact with elected representatives of the people and citizens. That is why I am particularly pleased to be accompanied today by Commissioners Margot Wallström and Janez Potočnik. After two years of entering the European Union, I welcome you. This was an event of historical significance for all and this was the highlight of the long efforts and I congratulate this Slovenian people. Slovenia has always been considered a very European country and more than that, since it covers the territory from the Alps to the Mediterranean and also part of the Pannon Valley, we can actually see Slovenia as the microcosm of Europe. The political upheavals on this river in this region meant that your people had to wait centuries for their dream of independence to come true. Throughout history, you certainly cared for your own language and culture, which you are especially proud of. You have contributed important names: Drago Jančar, France Prešeren and many others, these are important names in European literature. You have waited a long time for independence and it is quite clear that you wanted to link your destiny to the fate of Europe. Surely I can congratulate you on this, on the extraordinary success of the country in economic and political integration into the European Union and, of course, on its integration into current developments in the European Union. The year 2005 was crucial for Europe, we have witnessed many problems, but together we have managed to overcome them. We have reached an agreement on the financial perspective and now we know that the time has come for us to think meaningfully and deeply about what we want to achieve and how we will achieve it. As far as the Constitutional Treaty is concerned, this is a document that requires reflection. We must not complain about the way out which we might want to be different, but we must focus on something positive. We need to listen to the citizens what we hear. We know that almost all Member States are particularly concerned about jobs, health, social protection, access to education, in particular high education, quality of life, quality of the environment, and our task is to tell these citizens that Europe is actually part of the solution to all these problems. No Member State alone has the power to cope with all these challenges at European level. Of course, we will have trouble adapting, but this is because we are economically unprepared for the outcome of globalisation. This is not a question of the last enlargement or non-action of the common market. The truth is quite different. The main players in this integration will certainly tell you what economic advantages and stability have brought about by the accession or enlargement. Our assessment is that the accession of the new countries has brought economic progress not only to the countries themselves but also to the whole association. It is difficult to say that the demographic, economic and social situation is perfect, but I think our main problem now is trust. The question is how can we regain the trust of our citizens, this is a fundamental question that we must ask ourselves from the European institutions, the social partners, civil society, governments, the national Parliament and all others, what our common values are. If we want democracy, freedom, solidarity, social cohesion, all that they support from Lisbon to Stockholm, we can only ensure all of this by dealing with globalisation to manage it and, on the other hand, by increasing social well-being. The time that we have taken for consideration has already brought our benefits, we have taken our future into our own hands, at the Hampton Court during the British Presidency, the leaders of the 25 Member States and the European institutions have taken their responsibility and decided to start with a joint initiative and focus on priority issues, priority issues when it comes to the welfare of our citizens, more jobs, a proactive approach to the European Union's demographic ageing and social systems, more research and development for better competitiveness, security in the field of migration, terrorism, consumer protection and energy issues that have become very relevant in the past period. The new Lisbon Strategy should be based on national programmes, to stress that Member States play their important role in the so-called Road Map, in order to increase jobs and competitiveness in Europe and to increase the share of budget resources for R & D. Constructive policies are needed to finance the pension system and healthcare. The Slovenian programme appears successful in our eyes and you intend to spend 3% of your budget by 2010 on research and development. Much has been done to simplify legislation and the time needed to establish a business. However, much needs to be improved, such as the development of a knowledge-based economy. The target is clear. Slovenia should become more competitive and have permanent sustainability in order to better tackle social and environmental problems in the future. In this you are very similar to other Member States and the Commission takes into account specific national characteristics. We want an open, successful and advanced Europe. A new impetus in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy on the ground is said to have started promisingly in the Member States. We take account of all interested parties and use appropriate resources. Now, however, we must move forward and in fact ensure to our citizens what they expect us to do. On the next European Council of March, under the Austrian Presidency, we will focus mainly on what we can do to actually do what we promised. However, we also have a plan D or plan D, democracy, dialogue and debate. This is a plan for a period of reflection, which I prefer to call a period of active reflection on which to build our future together. So what's the point here? It is essential to listen to and listen to people across all Member States in order to reach a new consensus on the policies that we will build a Europe that will face the challenges of the 21st century. 25 Member States must tell us what they want and what they fear. As far as globalisation is concerned, we expect a specific and strong action. That is why we have developed a special tool, and we also want to use this plan to hear from citizens what they want, as well as to explain to them what is going on in Europe. National parliaments are, by definition, our primary partners, because they are the main link between European institutions and European citizens. And on the other hand, you are in a position to motivate or even convince national governments. This is why I am speaking to you in person today to ask you to include European issues in the political practice and programmes of your customers. In fact, I demand that you take responsibility for Europe to combine national and local initiatives. Europe is not an external policy, but it is an internal policy of 25 countries. So we will discuss Europe, value added, open issues and opportunities and shortcomings and the impact of Europe on citizens' lives. However, when we talk about relations with voters, national parliaments are the face of Europe. Respectable Members of Parliament! I believe that you will ensure what is necessary for our success, namely political will, instruments of action and action, which will restore the confidence of the voters. We now have a new Lisbon strategy and we are the ones who have to listen to the citizens of the European Union so that we can work together to shape the future. Of course, we need a Europe that will fulfil its obligations and we must not waste time doing so. So I want an open Europe, a Europe that is convinced that it can enter its future, a Europe that is dynamic, capable of innovation, a Europe that is connected and, on the other hand, pluralistic. I want a Europe that trusts in its values and the motto of Europe is unity in diversity. Very soon we are approaching the entry of the euro in Slovenia, these are the coming milestones, the accession to the Schengen area in autumn 2007 and the Presidency of the European Union in 2008. These are essential milestones and challenges, as well as objectives and these are indeed symbolic objectives for Slovenia, which is, on the one hand, at the heart of the European Union and Slovenia, which is European in its heart. And if I am now trying to give you a message in something that is close to your language: Slovenia continues to be successful in Europe, I congratulate you on your success so far. Thank you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your encouraging words. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members to ask the President questions of the Members. Because time is limited, please, that each question is no longer than two minutes. Next, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko will raise the issue. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Barroso, President of the European Commission! The enlargement of the European Union has had and has many advantages, in addition to a number of weaknesses. One of these is certainly a reduction in the impact of national countries and national institutions, as more competences and important decisions are being passed on to the institutions of the Union. In particular, in the old Member States, citizens are not ready for this, the common Europe is not yet trusted enough and some referendums on the European Constitutional Treaty have also not been successful. There are also some enlargement plans behind the rejection decision, which sometimes trigger opposition from the population and also part of the policy. Until enlargement, they are sceptic even in countries that we consider to be very liberal and tolerant. There are also racial protests, there are sensitive religious differences every day, and we are facing religious extremism and terrorism as well. The process of enlargement and also the adoption of the treaty are almost impossible before a serious test and the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty; the revisions are a repetition of the procedures, both for referendums and other decisions of national parliaments; further enlargement is a source of tension. It is said that the current situation is unclear, but a step forward is still necessary. I would like to ask: How can the European Commission contribute to a greater level of trust in the Union and, consequently, to the speedy adoption of the European Constitutional Treaty? And just to think: Would one possible solution also be allowing national parliaments to have a greater impact on decision-making, which would also strengthen the awareness among the population of the impact of their national state and their national institutions on the work of the European Union? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your question. I agree with the background you presented in your question. Of course, there are problems regarding public opinion in the European Union. I personally believe that these problems are sometimes not directly related to institutions. These are problems that concern national level more. In many Member States, there is a debate on crises, particularly the crisis of trust between citizens of the European Union, the problem of actionivity as regards globalisation, the future, and of course this raises concern. This is also reflected in debates and referendums. It can happen that citizens take this opportunity to express their concern. To be honest, I think we have to admit that sometimes the problem is not just about European level, but that it is also the problem of our different political systems across Europe. It is a lack of consciousness, and in some Member States we have some kind of populism, which is against European institutions, against the challenges that we must face together in a reasonable way. And what can we do after a marked "no" in two Member States at the referendum? To be fair, we are now in the process of reflection. This was the decision of 25 Member States. A new consensus has been decided for this period, which is necessary to consider how to reach a new agreement. In June, under the Austrian presidency, we will decide. This is a decision by the Member States, because the Constitutional Treaty is an intergovernmental treaty and we will decide what to do. It seems to me that we will probably extend this period a little longer, to prepare an agenda for the future of Europe and return to the question of institutions a little later. For now, we need to solve other problems. I personally believe that we are also in this thinking process in our European Commission, and I personally believe that political dynamics will create institutional dynamics and not the other way around. Therefore, before solving the institutional problem that needs to be resolved in this enlarged Europe of the 25 Member States, we will soon be 27 of us, before we have to create a political consensus between the Member States, in this way we will improve the economic situation and in this way we can create a better political climate and try to reach a political consensus. The financial perspective is one such problem dealing with the budget for the next seven years. The Services Directive has reached an important compromise. The institutions are discussing the concerns of our citizens and are not concerned about the way we vote in the Ministerial Council or the European Council, our citizens are most concerned about the economic situation, unemployment, education, health care, these are the reasons for the concern of citizens, these are important issues. The best way to deal with them is to create good political and economic conditions so that we can reach consensus between the Member States. That's my message. Let us try to resolve problems by creating better conditions so that we can resolve this institutional problem later. Of course, the role of national parliaments is also very important when it comes to a constitutional treaty. Two Member States have rejected it, that is true, but the European Constitutional Treaty has taken on a much more important role and that is why we are here today, even though we do not have a constitution. We have already made more than 70 visits to national parliaments by ourselves and other members of the Commission, which is more than ever. Members of the Commission have previously focused more on only the European Parliament, and we are now very much committed to national parliaments, because you are the European political leader, even the mayors are those leaders of Europe, so we need to build this important partnership in order to achieve this consensus. I apologize for being a little long, but this was a very important question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	On behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the question will be raised by Dr Marko Pavlih. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	[[...]] [[Speak Portuguese.]] Dear President, Vice-President, Commissioner, Excellency, welcome to the Slovenian Parliament. [[...]] Mr President, if you have a chance to take our country, you will find that we are building a lot, not just the highway and other infrastructure projects. We have before us an important task of updating the rail system, especially in the fifth trans-European corridor, which is also taking place in Slovenia and on this corridor is particularly important to build a second track between Kopro, where our largest port is, and Divaco. The second track is extremely important for many European Union countries lying on the fifth corridor, which is important for Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Germany as well for future members, such as Ukraine. It is also extremely important for the future development of the Republic of Slovenia and its economy, and not least for the development of our largest port, Luke Koper, which passed the magic limit of 13 million tonnes of pre-shipment last year and thus reached a saturation. In the last four years, the number of overloaded wagons in Luka Koper has increased by up to 50%, which means that Luka Koper has no possibility of further development without another track. The previous Slovenian government under the chairmanship of Anton Ropa has turned a pious desire to build this important project into a reality, both with the help of the European Council and with the help of your predecessor, Mr Prodi. The second indent was classified as priority projects of the European Union under number 6. And I am sure, Mr President, that under your Presidency he will also continue to enjoy all the support of the European Commission and also your own. And my question is: can we today, on this important visit to our Parliament, be assured that the second track will not rumble on the side track? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your opening remarks in Portuguese. I hope my Slovenian was at least as good as your Portuguese. As far as the corridor is concerned, we are fully aware of the importance of the corridor for Slovenia and the priorities. At the moment, we cannot assume or assume any obligation as the financial perspective is not yet fully agreed. There is likely to be a reduction in the expected funding for trans-European transport networks, but we believe that this corridor is extremely important.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Mr Miran Potč will raise the question on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Dear President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, Commissioner! More than 14 days ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decided on a very important foreign policy issue whether Slovenian soldiers should also engage directly in the training of Iraqi police officers or not. Following a decision by the Government to send four Slovenian military soldiers to the Al Rostami training centre, this decision was confirmed by the National Assembly. The coalition was in favour, the opposition against. We all want the peace and democratic development of Iraq. We are all aware that, as equal members of the international community, as well as of the European Union and NATO, we must contribute our share to the resolution of crisis hotspots, but we differ in our assessments as to whether the international community already has a clear strategy and a successful plan to address this crisis hotspot. In view of the important role played by the European Union in its political weight and impact, I ask you, President Barroso, to answer: Does the European Union have a unified position on the involvement of its members' soldiers in Iraq and how you personally and the European Union see the potential for a more successful engagement of the European Union in solving this crisis hotspot? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	As regards the first question, the deployment of your soldiers to Iraq, this is a completely national decision taken by each Member State separately. The European Commission has no powers in this regard. It's up to you. You decide what you want to do in this matter as regards military cooperation. As regards support for the stabilisation of Iraq, economic cooperation, reconstruction, reconstruction projects, cooperation in training programmes such as police units, the judiciary and institution building, we have a common position at European Union level and I will give you some elements. This is a comprehensive programme, and I will not be able to explain the entire programme to you, but we are funding reconstruction projects worth more than EUR 500 million. This year we added another 200 million euros, these are concrete cooperation projects to improve the situation in Iraq and to improve the political processes of democratisation in Iraq. We are also preparing, once conditions are ripe, some kind of agreement on trade and cooperation with the Iraqi authorities. We now promote a training programme in various fields and train many Iraqis to perform various functions. This is our program for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Mrs Marjetka Uhan will ask the question on behalf of New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Hello, Mr Barroso, President of the Commission, Commissioner and Commissioner in the Slovenian Parliament. I'd start with my question like this. Europe is facing a major demographic crisis, some countries are addressing the shortage of domestic populations and the labour force by incurring foreign peoples or foreign populations, which also bring into Europe their customs, customs and culture and thus change the cultural character of Europe itself. Slovenia does not differ in the field of demographics; it may even be in a worse situation, even because it is small. I am curious: What will the European Union do about the employment of women, whose measures it will take, because we are aware that young mothers, when they start work, are also somehow at the age of birth and are aware that social security is the value they must have before they decide for the family? The Slovenian government is also aware of this and is preparing a number of reforms or measures in this area, but the results can only be seen in time. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, on 22 January, the Commission recently adopted a report on equality between men and women, which will also be presented at the spring summit. Three quarters of the new jobs created in five years, in the past five years, have been filled by women themselves. A few basics. Nevertheless, women's employment is only 56% in the European Union compared to men's employment. It is said that there is serious discrimination against women compared to men. Women work in a much smaller number of industries and in a smaller number of professions than men, only 30% in leading cities is women in the European Union, and this also explains why women earn 15% less at work, for Slovenia this means 9% less in Slovenia, you are better than the European average, but there is still a difference. Since 1999, the European Employment Strategy has taken care of improving gender equality in the labour and legal field, and I hope that we will continue to do so successfully. This report on the situation in the Member States is also intended in fact to create awareness of this issue. We are also dealing with the issue of the ageing population, this is the mandate we have received at the Hampton Court, and we urge Member States to think or think about more ambitious ways of providing infrastructure for the protection of children, because this is a way to enable people to participate actively in the work process and at the same time in the family life. This is a European strategy and this is also a priority to be mentioned at the European Summit. I must say that we are extremely committed to gender equality in our committee, and we call on the Member States to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	Mr Jakob Presečnik will raise the question on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, Commissioner! I extend my sincere welcome on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In accordance with the accession agreement, Slovenia is expected to leave the reduced VAT rate paid when it purchases a new apartment in 2007. This measure is in a situation for Slovenia for several reasons. In particular in Ljubljana and the coastal region, as well as other most developed urban centres in the country, the demand for housing is significantly higher than the offer. As a result, both newly built and old dwellings are extremely expensive, especially in relation to the average earnings of the population. At this rate, prices continue to rise, and according to different estimates, up to about 10% per year. This year's housing market is marked by particularly vibrant activity and the pressure on prices is further increasing. There are projections that housing prices may increase by around 15 to 20% by the end of the year as the market responds to expected higher housing prices in the following year due to the announced increase in VAT rates. On the one hand, an increase in housing prices has an impact on housing accessibility and thus on the real standard of living of the population, and on the other hand this increases inflation. Neither the first nor the second have a positive impact on the economic and social picture. At the same time, too high an inflation rate could even jeopardise the euro's takeover planned for next year. Mr President, for Slovenia or for the price stability of the Slovenian housing market, given the situation described, it would certainly be a great relief if Slovenia could maintain a reduced VAT rate per dwelling for a certain period or for an indefinite period. That would stop the rising pressure on housing prices. What is your opinion on this matter, Mr President, and what can the European Commission do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We know that this is a very sensitive question in Slovenia, a difficult and technical question and I can give you a technical answer for which I apologize. We know how important this is, so we need to be very precise because it is important legal matters in addition to political matters. So, it's about legal matters, what you've highlighted. I would like to confirm that Slovenia has been given the opportunity to apply for a reduction in this tax rate. Construction products or materials may be excluded from this until 31.7.2007. On 13 February, after two years of discussion, the Council adopted a directive on a reduced rate. This Directive covers the extension of this period in the labour-intensive sectors up to 2010. This includes renovation of apartments, this includes heating methods and new proposals will be presented by the Commission. I must point out that the level reduction experiments, with regard to the reduction of this rate, are now enabling or enabling all Member States to do so. This has previously been allowed only to certain Member States. Following this option, the Member State is to submit this request, this request on a reasoned basis, before the end of this month. Furthermore, I would like to explain that Slovenia can apply this reduced rate in accordance with the Annex H to the Sixth Directive, which also concerns housing, which forms part of social policy. Of course, Slovenia must decide and define the extent of its social policy. This reduced rate shall apply without a time limit. By 30 June 2007, the Commission will present to the Council and Parliament a general assessment report on the reduced rate of tax rates in individual services. This report will be based on a study conducted by an independent economic institution and I want to assure you in Parliament that this report will cover the entire housing sector. The Commission will present its report as well as proposals on the scope of this area. I'm sorry, this was very technical, but this is really such a very sensitive question and we are glad that there was agreement in the world in February. There is still something to be done, of course, but some decisions have been taken that are now in the hands of national competent authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Mr Saša Pece asked the question. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Slovenians and Slovenians! Mr. Barroso! When Slovenia was under territorial and economic pressure from Austria and Italy, you and Europe promised us that Slovenia, within the European Union, would be a full or equal member to receive all rights, not just obligations. We were promised, among other things, that the free movement of work would take place, that free movement of work would take place, but of course Slovenia is not receiving it. You have, of course, seized this right within the European Union. And the area of commitment. According to you, Slovenia is an example among all the new members. You've said that a number of times. But this thank you has a weight, it has a price for Slovenian citizens and citizens. Above all, the negative weight, this is the increase and introduction of ever-increasing taxes, increasing taxes, and in our country we unfortunately have some new and higher taxes announced. In return for this price, you and the like in Europe praise us and give us an example of how good and good new members of the European Union we are. Mr. Barroso, you promised us so much more. You promised us a common solution to our problems and, if I say so in your terminology, a common solution to the new challenges. It is very modern to call challenges. You promised us a common foreign policy towards third countries and the fact is that common policy should be. After all, this is also the policy of the Schengen Agreement. But when we listen to you today or yesterday when you speak in relation to Slovenia to Croatia, you say exclusively, this is a matter of two countries, this is not about Europe. This is a bilateral issue, this does not concern Europe. When Slovenia calls on you and the institutions of the European Union to intervene when Croatia carries out territorial aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, forget all the big promises, forget all the big promises, forget all the basic and implementing acts of the European Union. Do you find this offensive to the Republic of Slovenia, or do you not find this humiliating to these citizens and citizens who, of course, are subject to new and higher taxes on a daily basis because of Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr Member, you have addressed various issues and let me try to deal with each other. As far as the historical framework is concerned, I will not talk about this now, but the situation is already difficult enough, and I would not be burdening it with the past. In the European Union, this is primarily a reconciliation process, and if we think about where we are with all the problems we have, the economics and others, and if we think about where we were in the past, 60 years ago, this continent witnessed one of the worst disasters in human history, II. World War II, the Holocaust took place in Europe. France and Germany were ready for each other. That was a picture of Europe 60 years ago. 30 years ago or 35 years ago, all southern Europe was under dictatorship, for example, my country. 20 years ago, Soviet domination over the whole of Southeast Europe. The Baltic States were not independent. Ten years ago, we witnessed killings and massacres in the Western Balkans. We do have problems today, but if we compare ourselves with the situation in the past, I really don't see why we should be pessimistic. Our project, the European project is mainly a political project, not just an economic project. I have previously given you very technical answers to technical questions, but this is not a technical project, and I am therefore very happy to speak to you as politicians. The European project cannot be just a technocrat project; it must be a political and democratic project based on the values of democracy, peace and security and freedom. And that's why this reconciliation is so important. And that is my general comment on the historical notes you have made, Mr Pache. Now it's a tax issue. If you compare the situation in the European Union, you will find countries where taxes are very high and those where taxes are lower. There is no harmonisation of the tax rate in the European Union. And there are also countries with higher and lower taxes outside the European Union. So, I don't think it's intellectual to say that taxes are higher because of the European Union, because there are countries in the European Union where taxes are very low. As regards the free movement of labour, this was a condition in the negotiations. This was accepted by the old countries and then the candidate countries. However, we have just prepared a report assessing the effects of this agreement, and this is within a certain period of time after the inclusion of the new Member States. And our recommendation is that all restrictions be lifted because they have very good experience in countries that have no restrictions, such as Ireland, Great Britain and Sweden. Some countries have also mentioned that they will not fully implement the ban on the free movement of labour. So our proposal is that there will be no restrictions on the movement of labour across the European Union. As far as Croatia and relations between Croatia and Slovenia are concerned, our clear position is that this is a bilateral issue. And I think this is the right way to respect the independence of both Slovenia and Croatia. I do not think it would be good for Slovenian independence to say now that the European Union is the one who will now decide on the borders between Croatia and Slovenia. This is a bilateral issue where we respect the sovereignty of both countries. However, we hope that you will address the questions constructively, with good intentions, in a good spirit. On a recent visit to Zagreb, I said this, and I also mentioned to Croatia that the report on its progress on the road to the European Union is the one that mentions this problem. And we, as the European Commission, have certain competences in the field of fisheries. We can help here, but we can only help if all sides cooperate with us. We are ready to help, but I must say again, this is the responsibility of two independent and sovereign countries involved. However, as a final remark, I can honestly tell you, subjectively, that it seems to me that one of the main advantages of Slovenia in the European Union is that you know the Western Balkans. You are real experts in this area, and you are certainly more interested in this region than other members. According to our behaviour, it is very important that we have stable relations with all the countries in the Western Balkans. This is important from an economic and political point of view and I believe that you can give these countries a European perspective, of course only if they meet all the economic and political criteria for joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, the question will be posed by a mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Dear Mr President of the European Commission, Commissioner, the honourable remain present! We are aware that the first Inter-Parliamentary Forum will be convened this spring before the June European Council. In this regard, what concepts will you put as President of the European Commission regarding the future of the European, social and economic model in view of globalisation? Whether to define the above will also take into account the safety and justice of the ageing population. More and more often, in the European public, there is the impression that an ageing generation with the burden of maintaining its social security is one of the main culprits for the inefficiency of our common European social model. We are aware that a broad debate on these issues will open up new perspectives and also a space for reform towards common policies in this area, where there is political disagreement within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. You're right. Ageing is sometimes a negative element, but I think it is good for Europe. People live longer, and if possible, we also live a healthier life. The question, of course, suggests that there are also economic effects and this is linked to pensions. There are increasing numbers of pensioners and social systems need to be adapted. However, it does not mean that aging is in itself a negative thing. On the contrary, we promote policies of active ageing, lifelong learning. In this way, people over 50 years of age maintain their abilities, men and women, and it is very important to have this policy to meet all the objectives. Most social policies were prepared when life expectancy was below 70 years. Now we have made progress in this regard. This average life span has risen. We, as well as the younger generations, must have the right to a pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	On behalf of the Hungarian and Italian national minorities in Slovenia, Mrs Maria Possonec will raise the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President, our dear guests. As a representative of the small national community in the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you: What will be the fate of the national community in the European Union, given that its enlargement is increasingly small? I also wonder whether you intend to regulate the situation of national communities in the European Union by law and how you will monitor the implementation of these laws? By the way, I say that the issue of the situation of the national community in Slovenia is very good, I could say exemplaryly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It is good to know that this issue is well settled in this country. As you know, this issue is becoming more and more relevant in an enlarged Europe, and as a result, we adhere to the principles referred to in Article 6 of the European Treaty, as well as other international conventions and, of course, the conventions of the Council of Europe, and the matter is also precisely and significantly defined in the Charter of Human Rights. We are increasingly paying attention to this issue, both in the old Member States and in the new and also in the candidate countries. We are preparing a special agency for fundamental rights in the European Union, and one of the tasks of this future agency will, of course, be to monitor the situation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you, President of the European Commission. Mr Jose Manuel Barroso, Mrs Margot Wallström, Dr Janez Potočnik, thank you very much for your visit to the National Assembly, which I believe is not the last. With questions concerning the future of the European Union, including the future of the Republic of Slovenia, you will certainly continue to work intensively. Allow me to wish you great courage, patience, and success on this journey. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am about to begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač, Ferri Horvat, Miran Jerič, Alojz Posedel, Cyril Testen by 12 noon and Mirko Zamernik or Cyril Testen by 12 noon. Please calm down before we move on to the 13th item of the agenda. Thank you very much. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, another defends the proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovaks outside its borders. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr Zorko Pelikan State Secretary, Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Messengers and Members! Dear Slovenian guests from abroad, who joined us at today's second reading of the Slovenian Relations Act with Slovenians beyond its borders. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to point out in the introduction certain government positions in connection with the discussion, comments and amendments to the proposed legislative text. At the time of the consideration of the repatriation chapter, which regulates the return of Slovenians from countries in crisis situations as a particular part of this law, there has been concern about the promotion of the return of Slovenian emigrants and their descendants to the proposal to extend this chapter in general. Although this chapter on repatriation remains unchanged and only directed at a particular group of returnees, I would like to ensure, on this occasion, that much has already been done in the field of information on immigration to Slovenia. It is a permanent task that our office, in cooperation with the network of diplomatic consular offices and competent ministries, performs between the locals and the emigrants. The amendment to the first paragraph of Article 13, which provides that the Office shall be headed by a Minister without a licence, is contrary to the Government Act. Article 8 of the Government Act stipulates that the government consists of 15 ministers or ministers and that it can have a maximum of 2 ministers without resources. Otherwise, the amendments to Article 13, paragraph 2 and 3, establish a way of cooperating between the Office and the Ministry responsible for Foreign Affairs, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Affairs and the Regulation on Cooperation, Information and Coordination in the Field of Foreign Affairs and International Relations. The law will, I am sure, with the amendment of Article 19 it will meet the expectations of the roof organisations of the Slovenians from the replacement. The restriction only on representative organisations that may propose members of the Council for Slovenians in place gives them greater guarantees that their proposals will be taken into account. Article 21 has extended the number of representatives from certain countries and continents forming the Council for Slovenians around the world, making it more representative. In view of the non-compliance with other legal acts and in conjunction with Article 98 of the proposed law, the Government, as a bill-maker, announces that it will prepare a harmonisation amendment for the third reading. Dear Members and Members! On this occasion, I sincerely thank you for your constructive approach to the formation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Pelican. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye! A warm welcome to all those invited to this meeting and to your fellow Members and Members of Parliament! At its 17th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders. In addition to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, representatives of regional ministries and representatives of organisations representing Slovenians in place and around the world and operating both outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and on our soil were invited to attend the meeting, which was the basis for a substantively in-depth debate, which was also developed on the Committee itself. The representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world Zorko Pelikan, submitted a supplementary explanation to the article of the bill, in which he stressed that the adoption of the bill was necessary, since according to various estimates outside the Republic of Slovenia, there are a quarter of all members of our people. The President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Relations with Slovenians in Replace and Worldwide presented its written opinion - the Commission considered the law as an interested working body at its 4th emergency meeting. As the Commission unanimously agreed with the content of some of the amendments proposed by SLOMAK and the Slovenian Emigration Matrix in the debate, the representatives of the Office and some of the regional ministries also supported their content, the Commission adopted them with certain additions and also proposed them to the Committee for admission. It also gave its opinion to the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs, in which it proposed to include the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, in place and worldwide, among the main institutions of cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was also accompanied by opinions and opinions by other invited representatives. Representative of Slovenian Minority Coordination Rudi Pavšč said that the Slovenian indigenous community in neighbouring countries supports the adoption of the bill, which is a condition for the further preparation of the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenians living in neighbouring countries. Most of the views of SLOMAK and its proposals for amendments have already been taken into account in the opinion of the Commission. In particular, he proposed two more amendments to the Committee's admission. Representatives of Slovenian expatriate organisations in the Republic of Slovenia also agreed with the general assessment that the law is necessary and necessary. This was highlighted by representatives of the World Slovenian Congress, the Society of Iceland in the world and Rafael Society. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the drafter had taken some comments into account in the proposed amendments and some had taken them into account in the discussion and the Committee had also adopted them in most cases. The discussion focused on the issues under Article 3a when, on a proposal from SLOMAK, the Commission adopted a proposal for an amendment stressing that Slovenia does not have any territorial difficulties in neighbouring countries. Some discussers felt that this should be written down and that most discussers felt that there was no need for a solution, since in neighbouring countries it could have the opposite effect of what they wanted. With regard to some, they added to Article 19 that the representatives of the Slovenians should be appointed in place of the Council by the Prime Minister on a proposal to coordinate the umbrella organisations operating in Austria, Italy, Croatia and Hungary, some considered that this would be appropriate, as the minority should be encouraged to operate in a uniform manner. Most agreed that coordination could also be arranged later, provided that there was agreement between all organisations. It was also pointed out that specific provisions relating to the preservation of language and education were relevant. Then, too, the concept of repatriation was also exposed, which according to some representatives was considerably reduced, and some amendments were also accepted by the Committee. In the end, the Committee also adopted all the articles of the law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Your Honor! Let me express my satisfaction that, in our midst, I can welcome the representative of the Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world, which, under Rule 276 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have invited them to examine the law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovenians outside its borders and which, for the first time in history, are participating in a plenary session of the Slovenian Parliament. Mr Rudi Pavšič, President of the Slovenian Minority Coordination of SLOMAK, represents the Slovenians in place. As a member of the country management of the Slovenian Educational Union and later President of the Association of Slovenian Cultural Associations and member of the Regional Committee of the Slovenian Cultural and Economic Union for Goriška, he actively represented the interests of the Slovenian national community in Italy. He was elected President of the Slovenian Cultural and Economic Union in 1997 and has been President of SLOMAK since 2004. Mr. Rudi Pavšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, first of all, on my part, on behalf of the Slovenians, who live in the neighbouring countries of the Republic of Slovenia, thank you very much for the opportunity you are giving us to discuss common problems with you. I think that today's presence of representatives from between and from Slovenia around the world is a sign of the convergence of our views and desires, and I am sure that in such cooperation we will be able to better and more positively resolve the issues that concern us. For Slovenians living in Austria, Italy, Hungary and Croatia, the legal determination of the relations between the place and the Republic of Slovenia is an important action that we welcome. For years, the talk has been about organically regulating relations between the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners and Slovenians around the world. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia explicitly foresees this. In this context, it is essential that stakeholders, such as foreigners and Slovenians around the world, play a role in emerging standards as a protagonist. It's just a known principle of minority as an entity. It is particularly important that the proponents, discussers and legislators do not go with bureaucraticly complicated structures passing through essentially very simple facts. In basic terminology, it is necessary to separate the foreigners from the Slovenians who left the domestic land and for various reasons and went abroad at different times. The difference is not in value, but in actual needs, wishes and plans. The term "foreigners" denotes a psychological and institutional distance, which represents a stay in countries divided by institutional, political and cultural boundaries. It is essential to eradicate this distance in the national field. In Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia, there are a variety of organized Slovenian national communities. They are accompanied by the fact that they are citizens from a community of non-Slovenian countries, which are members of the Slovenian people by language, culture, history and other objective or psychological signs, regardless of nationality. The likeness is clear. Slovenia as a country does not represent all Slovenian people. In history, borders have moved, and people have stayed and remained on their land. Slovenians from places and spaces with the name of the replacement have in history made a decisive contribution to the development of the Slovenian nation. It is essentially about people and events that should be part of Slovenian collective consciousness. If we lose that consciousness, we'll become something else, and the Slovenians are getting less and less. To sum up, there is no notion of a common Slovenian space or national space something that needs to be achieved or created. It is already an existing and integral part of the Slovenian nation, its history and past. These facts, this community, these people and space need to be defined today in the light of the fact that Slovenia is for the first time in its history a single country, a member of European and other international alliances, which contributes significantly to breaking borders between neighbouring countries. The question of Slovenia is therefore not to create something entirely new, but simply how by legal determination to contribute its share to what has established us as a nation. Before Slovenian consciousness, as my friend Ace Mermolja correctly points out, the question is: we want to count or count as a nation. The new position of Slovenia imposes two objectives both to the country and to the nation: to accelerate the linguistic, cultural and economic structure of those parts of the nation that are not within the country, and at the same time to invest in all-Slovenian integration inside and outside. It is written down to create ideas and plans and invest in them the means to reunite linguistic, cultural and national space in interaction and at the same time to link it together in the macro-regions and in European and global integration processes. Slovenians remain Slovenians, but Europeans are more and more every day. In doing so, two aspects relating to Slovenians in neighbouring countries should be highlighted. Slovenian minorities have a breakdown of protection standards in the context of the countries in which they live. In fact, these laws and treaties have been implemented to a lesser extent, which means that our communities in neighbouring countries have no real difficulty in maintaining those school, cultural, media and even spatial structures, which constitute the basic means for linguistic and cultural development. Slovenia has repeatedly referred to the need for minorities to be cared for by countries in which minorities live. The claim is true, but not entirely. There are still a wide variety of European conventions that guarantee minorities rights, and this does not mean that the country where most people live is Slovenia, the laws of others and the general convention are burdening the fundamental issue if the national target is aggregated and not counted. For Slovenia, the matter must be clear, depending on what it wants to do with itself and thus with its groups living outside the country. A positive decision requires that the nation and the state ensure that they preserve the entire national body, where individuals and the community will preserve the status of the developed national community. That's a summation. Because Slovenian minorities and also Slovenians around the world are part of the question of what future Slovenians want to depend on as a nation, nation and country, let the law for minorities start from these issues and not network them into bureaucratic mazes. Slovenian minorities are organised, have plans and try to preserve vital instruments for life at a fruitful level. They have notable roof organizations that today bring together the most organizations of people, in short, minorities as such. However, the fundamental question is whether these minorities, organisations and people and the umbrella organisations themselves will be given the opportunity to maintain a cultural, linguistic, social and high level of self-confidence. From a national perspective, the issue is all-Slovenian and not minority. The problem is simple and corrosive, as it should be a law that does not speak of others, but of itself, as the Slovenes and the people. In this respect and under these assumptions, we have joined the legal itar in the Slovenian minority coordination of SLOMAK. We also summed up our thoughts in the marriage text, our marriage text, which in some points was equal to the official version and in others less. When the Office of the Prime Minister published its text, we approached it quite constructively and, despite some different views, accepted it as a possible common starting point. After government coordination, the text came back more weak and less responsive to our expectations. With many support that the law is not wise to adopt without consent or taking into account minority comments, we have carried out a series of meetings and information, contacts to draw our attention and propose corrections. I must admit that, with the exception of Article 19, the parliamentary commission chaired by Member Janez Kramberger has taken a positive approach to the matter and, in agreement with our coordination, has approved a number of amendments, which have not recorded the same positive assessment in the Home Committee for Internal Policy. The legal text is made up of a number of articles. Some are principled, others are logical and necessary, and others are essential. And among the essential judges of Articles 19 and 20, which, in our view, constitute the framework of the law or the most important means for its implementation. These articles determine who, how, and with what content to go and upgrade what I have discussed in the introduction. We have not yet recorded the necessary support for these two articles. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! While I thank you for your attention and the opportunity to speak in the National Assembly, I place my trust in the heart and in the care of our proposals, in the conviction that you will take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Pavšić. And today, Dr. Branko Zorn is representing Slovenians around the world. During his medical studies in Paris, he began to focus on the problems Slovenians face around the world. He has actively participated in the society of Slovenian Catholic scholars in Europe, and since 1997 he has been an active associate of conferences of Slovenian doctors and scientists from Slovenia, a substitute and a world organised by the World Slovenian Congress. Dr. Branko Zorn, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of all Slovenes and Slovenes around the world and on my own behalf, I have this great honour to welcome you as the first representative of the Slovenians living outside Slovenian borders in the National Assembly of our Republic of Slovenia. It is a special honor for me to meet today when representatives of Slovenian citizens are discussed and passed a roof law that will now take care of Slovenians around the world. I address you on behalf of four civil society institutions operating in Slovenia and caring for Slovenians around the world. The Society of Slovenia in the world, Rafael Society, the World Slovenian Congress and the Slovenian Emigrant Mother have chosen me from many Slovenes who live around the world or have already returned home. I am particularly glad that the decision was unanimous. At the same time, the decision thus taken imposes additional responsibility on me. By the time you wrote the Slovenian Constitution, you were Slovenes in your homeland who showed their will and recognition that we are Slovenians living outside national borders, also members of the same nation. You have also incorporated this will into various laws and resolutions. You have worked hard to make the law, and the current government of the Republic of Slovenia has made special efforts to produce a final version. Under the new law, the leading role will be played by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and throughout the world, led in the future by the Minister without a licence, and by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide. The important consultative bodies will be the Council for Slovenians in place and the Council for Slovenians around the world. However, things were not fully settled and this year, when the independent Slovenian state celebrates its 15th birthday, it is time to adopt a roof law and formally include Slovenians around the world as a legal entity in Slovenian legislation, while at the same time publicly acknowledging the existence of Slovenian communities around the world as part of the Slovenian national body. Slovenians from the world, Slovenians from indigenous Slovenian national communities in neighbouring countries and Slovenian emigrants who have returned or moved to Slovenia, we welcome the wishes of all those who have contributed to this law in any way and we sincerely thank you. Slovenians, who live or live abroad, consciously and through effort, and with a great sense of Slovenian belonging, we cultivate, preserve and mediate the following tribes. With a strong desire that the Slovenian word and Slovenian feeling abroad do not die out. To this end we have created Slovenian elementary, secondary and higher education courses, Slovenian choirs, sports representatives, group theatres, mountain and hunting societies, radio and television shows, published books, newspapers and magazines, created economic chambers and support units, built centres and could also be listed. All of this, of course, with its own resources and voluntary work, always in free time after the hard work and the struggle for daily bread. This work and the Slovenian consciousness are being mediated to the coming tribes. At the moment of independence, we followed with pride all the events and immediately responded with various actions so that the countries in which the Slovenians reside would immediately recognise Slovenia as a single country and we can proudly claim that we have succeeded. It is right that the Republic of Slovenia, on its own initiative and according to the model of developed European countries, regulates the care of all those who have to leave or have left and still feel like members of our people. It is right that Slovenia takes care of them in the fields of culture, language conservation, education, science, higher education and sport. It is right for Slovenia to take care of all of this because in these countries there is already a second, third and fourth generation of displaced persons who are in need of assistance, which was not received by the first generation, so that they can also keep their reputation outside the Slovenian borders. The area of preservation of culture and Slovenian identity is the lighthouse of this law. I also represent Slovenians, who are not Slovenian citizens, or Slovenian taxpayers, but they feel in themselves a Slovenia and have also shown this in the past with material aid or otherwise. At the time of independence, we have witnessed the return of the Slovenians or the arrival of descendants of exiles, who, although born on foreign soils, have maintained the Slovenian consciousness so strongly that they felt the need to return to the land of their ancestors. We therefore welcome in the law a chapter covering repatriation. Repatriation in terms of the symbolic invitation of the Republic of Slovenia that Slovenians who once left could also return home. Slovenia should be interested in returning as many Slovenians as possible who feel Slovenian. Reg. 72 of the Act grants financial support only to Slovenians from countries found to be in serious economic or political concealment and to Slovenians who can contribute to the development and implementation of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a distinction between Slovenians is difficult to understand and inappropriate. With the greater settlement of the Slovenians from the world, we would contribute to solving many of the current problems. They would fill some vacancies that our citizens do not want to occupy. The migration of young families with multiple children would help to save population ageing and low fertility. Slovenians who studied abroad would bring their knowledge to Slovenia. Otherwise, the law you will be considering does not constitute news. In neighbouring countries, emigrants have been regulated for decades. The election of the law will only be a settlement of a debt, which they have already done elsewhere in Europe. However, I would like to draw attention to the initiative of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, both in place and in the world, to explore the possibility of organising a permanent representative of Slovenians in place and around the world in the National Assembly. The election of the Permanent Member, the representative of the emigrants, presents a new challenge. This is the only guarantee that the law will be changed taking into account the real needs of the emigrants. We will make special efforts to realize it. At the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, however, we may be ahead of the new emigration of young powers and brains. Slovenians, in politics and in the media, we must create such a country that it will be nice to live in, where every man, every family, every child will be valued. We care for the better life of all of us! Let's help make Slovenia more attractive, so the Slovenians can leave as little as possible! The law you will be considering is an important contribution and will require improvements. Next, we recommend evicts to co-create them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Dr. Zorn. Since the meeting held its first reading of the draft law at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1.3.2006. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 1 of the proposed SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. The amendment is linked to the amendments of the same applicants to the title of Chapter 7, to Articles 72, 73 and 74, to the second amendment to Articles 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 90, 92 and 97. I am opening a debate on all these articles and all these amendments, which are related. Who wants a word? Just Bevk, Mr. Rezman, Barovich, go on Friday, Target, Pukšič. Anyone else? I will read: Bevk, Rezman, Barovic, Friday, Terčon, Pukšič. Miro Friday, of course. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you for your words, Mr President, for your warm welcome to Mr Rudi Pavšić and Mr Branko Zorn and to all others present on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats and on its behalf. Since these are the introductory provisions and Article 1 and all the other articles which are now connected and in this regard also the amendments, let me say that in our Group of Members of the Social Democrats we believe that the law must be adopted. We have also proposed a general examination of the law that was carried out in this national assembly. That's when we supported the marriage. The fact is that more than half a million Slovenians live outside their home country in place and around the world, which is 20% of Slovenes and Slovenes. Of these, 60,000 also have Slovenian citizenship. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia must lead state policy in this area and in principle support the activities of all Slovenian organisations in place and around the world, irrespective of political or religious affiliation. A very large majority of our relatives supported the democratisation and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. In recent years, contact with the motherland has increased. It may also be interesting to note, for example, that in 2000, 4 thousand 500 emigrants took part in the national elections; in 2004, 9 thousand 400 Slovenian emigrants had the right to vote. It has been said several times in the past that there is a legal void in this area, that there is no law imposed by Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say, however, that in addition to being a constitutional category and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly also speak of this, we have 28 different sectoral laws regulating relations with Slovenians both in place and in the world. That this National Assembly had adopted with full agreement two declarations, one in 1996, which referred to relations with the Slovenes in place, and the other in 2002, which spoke of our people living elsewhere in the world. That is why I do not think that there was a legal void in this area. In addition, we have a number of other documents, as well as international agreements regulating this area. Of course, we also have some comments in the Social Democrats' Group on this text, which we have already presented at the Commission's meeting and also at the home committee's meeting. We have already pointed out at the meeting of the home committee that it is not advisable to disseminate the text with the solutions proposed by the coalition SDS, NSI and SLS groups, which the government did not agree with at the meeting of the home committee at that time. So, change the concept of repatriation. Now you are correcting the issue of the coalition's parliamentary group again, so in a sense it is quite a matter and a situation quite schizophrene. If coalition groups were to listen to the government immediately, we would have saved ourselves a very long time. Above all, I think that this law should be the responsibility of the commission for Slovenians in place and around the world and not of the internal policy committee. In fact, in the Committee on Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, there are Members and Members of Parliament, who for a long time, some of whom have several mandates, we have been following this issue, and we know this very well. However, the Internal Policy Committee put the whole thing on the table after the meeting of the Commission which dealt with it. Why am I saying this, why should the Commission be a mother's labourer? In fact, the commission has a special status in this national council. It consists of not reflecting the results of the state elections. In this committee, there shall be one representative from each parliamentary group, except from the largest group of Members of which there shall be two. It is said that the Commission is, by its very nature, drawn up in such a way as to decide by consensus. That is why I think that this should be considered in the future. In fact, this was followed by amendments proposed by the coalition that were brought just before the meeting of the parent working committee and were surprised both in the opposition, both by members of the commission, from all, practically, parliamentary parties, as well as representatives of Slovenian minority coordination or SLOMAK. And so some Members unanimously accepted the amendments on the committee itself, notably the coalition committee, and then on the parent committee they changed their position and voted in favour of the amendments of the coalition groups, which essentially turned one chapter completely to the head. I would like to say that in our parliamentary group we will now support the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 and to those articles that are related to these solutions, and we will bring the matter back, as proposed by the Slovenian Commission in place and throughout the world and, of course, before that, the government. However, I will consult with other articles, especially Article 3a and Article 19 thereof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much and very much. Let me begin by saying that our group is happy that this law will be passed, that we think it is basically good, that we judge it was adopted with ambition, that we do something good for the Slovenes around the world and in place. And in this desire to contribute to this, we were also some Members and Members of the coalition parties who supported the amendments on the committee. But we see these things a little differently. I would only give two basic thesis, or two basic statements, which would prevent us from supporting the government amendments, which were signed by the three parties, are government amendments. First, because of the way this was done. We have been, I think, twice or three times even on the committee itself, in consultation and coordinated those who are members of the coalition or members of the coalition, so what we are going to propose and how we want to do this and why. Then it happened that over the weekend it was all turned upside down, one of the coalition parties was not even invited to think, to argue, to cooperate, but was struck by a fact that cleared up all the amendments that were adopted, for we are talking about immigration and repatriation. So that's the first amazing fact that we can't agree to. I am afraid that many of those whose parties have signed under the new amendments will also vote with great difficulty because they will feel personally these amendments as if they were Octorated, that they are not their amendments, even though their party is signed under them. So these are the first formal reasons why we don't think we should do this. The second reason is that of a content nature. This is a problem of immigration and repatriation. The problem has indeed arisen on the parent’s working body, first with ambition, we call it language purism, so that there are no foreigners. But while some wanted to celebrate this term, some others thought that they also had substantive flaws. The contents of the flaws in the sense of separating who to repatriate and who not, under what conditions we will repatriate and under which we will not be. And here we are firmly against what is now coming back in the government amendments. Let me just remind you of the definition of repatriation in paragraphs 71 and 72. It states in Article 71 that under the term "repatriate" only those Slovenians who are returned to Slovenia by government or state money of the Republic of Slovenia and by organised action. What about others not financially and organisationally supported by the Republic of Slovenia? And they can't come to us anymore? So, we protested the reduction of this notion of repatriation. And in the next article, the reduction has been stepped up. It even states that the repatriation procedure is established in such a way that only those who return from a country in which the crisis is severe can return as returnees, either political or economic. So from those countries where there is no such severe crisis, it will probably be harder to be repatriated, at least that's what this government proposal says. Not to mention now the very dispute over the definition of what repatriation is. I later made an effort to collect a whole series of definitions from both domestic and foreign literature, not one defines repatriation as the government is trying to present it. I didn't find any of those definitions! I've been through over a dozen of them. And what I would like to particularly resent is the government proposal. The fact that we are ruled by something obvious to those who have proposed amendments. If this were the obvious opposition, okay, we'd understand that. That it is obvious to us that we do not understand because the government is right, but now I quote, "we are confusing with the words immigration the Slovenians" because they are introducing the word into the law of confusion because they are unnecessarily spreading the concept and the chapter of repatriation and therefore the government insists on using the term repatriation from the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. Then let's see what the resolution says. And the resolution does not contain the definition of repatriation or the letter on which the government insists. The resolution states that the Republic of Slovenia is interested in returning the Slovenians. So they write words that are government words that we are told to use. It says that the Republic of Slovenia is also interested in the settlement of their descendants. So descendants are not "eo ipso" Slovenes, they're something else. That's what it says. Among other things, it also says that it promotes the return of those who can contribute to development. First, it says that we must help those who are in serious trouble. So, here's one big mess. And the government knows that because the government wrote it. But here doesn't count logic anymore, here counts interests now, here counts will, here counts power. When logic resists power, will, and interest, it makes logic worse. There's no room for her. At least that's the way it is with us. Government, secondly, the obvious dual designation and separation of immigrant Slovenes and returnees. This battle also causes confusion and impreciseness. I don't know why different facts, events would be named with the same term. This would only be a mess if we wanted to get everything under one term. However, the resolution referred to by the Government states that the return of the Slovenians is separate from the second settlement. In the explanatory memorandum to Article 71, the explanation is an integral part of the law, the government itself uses this term "immigration", which so strongly contradicts it from the moment we began to stress that repatriation itself is too narrow. The Government insists on the use of a uniform term for a repatriated person, as set out in the resolution. The resolution does not provide for that. It's not in the resolution. We cannot use something in accordance with a resolution which is not contained in the resolution. And that I won't be too long, because time is running out, and I have something to say later, to say that we will support the law, we will oppose these new amendments that destroy overnight what has been decided on the board. Because we want Slovenians to really get to the law, to the real, to the concrete, to better support, both in place and in the world. However, we cannot agree to make differences between them, to understand one another differently, and to agree to a reduction in the concept of repatriation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will ask for some attention, because I would like to draw very carefully attention to the severe substantive disharmony that arises with the amendments. I'll be very specific, and please, if you'll follow up on me. The amendment to Article 1 states that, in the second paragraph, the words "immigration of Slovenians" are deleted, meaning that the explanation states that the chapter on repatriation is vaguely, needlessly extended, meaning that the immigration of Slovenians is identical to repatriation. However, look at article 71 and the amendment to this article, which states: "Reparation in the meaning of this law is the immigration of Slovenians into the country organised and financed by Slovenia." First time. This phrase states that the immigration of Slovenians is a broader concept, which is divided into repatriation and other evictions. Of course. If it wasn't for the word "it," it would be fine. Because he says, "reparation in the sense of this law is the immigration organised and financed" is one thing and we have another. Logically, get out of this. Of course, only the word repatriation is used again. And what does that mean? First time. In the amendment to Article 71, we have acknowledged that these two terms are not identical because significant immigration is broader than repatriation. And a second time. By providing for the amendment of Article 71, that repatriation is what the State of the Republic of Slovenia organises and finances means that in all articles, when we only use repatriation, the State assumes an absolute obligation to organise and finance, which is of course nothing wrong, but, I am sure, absolutely impossible by financial consequences, whether you agree or not. That's impossible. The term Repatriated, Repatriation means organisation and funding. In all the articles, if we look at it, it means for all the people who will come, but it's absolutely impossible. So these articles are in absolute disharmony, I'm sure, I'm surprised the legislature didn't notice that. Please, and I warn you, if we are already adopting the law, and it is right that once we have one marriage, let us take it seriously and with all responsibility, because it could be said that it is very superficial - for the first time. Second of all, unprofessional. Thirdly, someone might find it misleading, because that's what I understand. For this reason, unless there are any corrections, it is impossible to accept the amendment to Article 1 and any amendments which are bound by Article 1 alone and solely by the amendment to Article 71. I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that you check for yourself, ask your professional services and give your opinion to the legislative branch of power. I'm sure of my claim, but I'll believe it if they're my experts, absolute experts, if they convince me otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone in this room. Around this repatriation we have had quite a mental exercise and now with these amendments the word "removal of Slovenians" is deleted. According to my modest assessment, repatriation is too narrow a term and I think that in this law, even in words, we should be a little more open in spite of everything that this matter would have to end, and I will support these amendments with clenched teeth. But I've also had a little bit of fun around this concept and, of course, the importance of the origin of "repatriation" is quite varied. For example, the verb replication stems from a verb to repeat, which is not a Slovenian or Slovenian choice, but a word is taken. In the great English-Slovenian dictionary, we also find this word, which says: "return to your homeland, send you home" and in round talk about the prisoners of war evicted, deported persons. We also have a dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language in 1998, talking about the verb to repatriate and interpret it: to make, to enable someone to return to their homeland, and again to speak: to repatriate prisoners of war. Slovenian spelling speaks similarly, repatriation, return to your homeland, archival material, prisoners of war etc., etc. Like I said, I'm gonna back these amendments with my teeth clenched. However, I am pleased to support the law in its entirety, because I think that by adopting this Act on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenians outside its borders - I am sure that we will accept it in full agreement - we will correct some of the debt from the past, the debt owed by Slovenia to Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. This imposes on us the Constitution, which we adopted 15 years ago, and this is also imposed on us by the resolutions adopted, the first resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in 1996 and the second resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world, adopted in 2001. More than the Constitution and these resolutions, this adoption of this law imposes on us about half a million Slovenians, half a million after some rough statistics living in place and elsewhere in the world. And we should not view these Slovenians as a problem, as if it were a problem to anyone, in the fact that we have been waiting for this marriage for 15 years. We must view Slovenia outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia as a wealth that the Slovenian state must rejoice and rejoice. The law will certainly be useful for Slovenians in place and around the world, especially to preserve their identity, their language, their culture. After all, this law also offers more opportunities for Slovenia to make better use of all those potentials, all those potentials of Slovenians living outside our country. It seems important to me that there has also been a very broad debate in these months, involving a large range of Slovenians living outside the borders, particularly representatives of minorities and representatives of organisations representing migrants. These were present both at the meetings of the Commission and at the meetings of the home working body and also contributed valuable amendments, valuable initiatives and some were included in this legislation. I am sure that today's amendments will also help improve this original legal text and that the law will ultimately be able to follow this basic intention, which is to help Slovenians in substitution and around the world to maintain Slovenian identity, Slovenian language, Slovenian culture and that they can also be successful in sports, culture and so on abroad. And that they will be able to feel and know by means of this law that from countries that could come into crisis for various reasons, they can also return to Slovenia and that Slovenia can accept them and help them in this return in any way. In short, Slovenians outside Slovenia will be able to feel that Slovenia is their home country, that is, the mother and not the stepmother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. So, too, I would like first of all to welcome representatives of the Slovenian organisations in place and throughout the world of Mr Zorman and Mr Pavšič representatives of the Office for Slovenians around the world and you respected colleagues and colleagues! Since independence, I think important steps have been taken to bring the Slovenians together wherever they are in the world and the homeland of Slovenia. A resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and a similar resolution relating to Slovenians around the world were adopted in the National Assembly. The National Assembly Commission has also been set up to address this particular issue and to represent all political parties. And, of course, we in the LDS understand that the adoption of the law and the initiative to adopt the law are welcomed, one, I would say, a further phase in bringing these contacts closer together. We too want to give our support and our contribution to the formation of this law. From the very beginning, when the debates began, we also actively participated. I must say that the draft laws have already been written in previous mandates, that the Slovenian organisations around the world have also been preparing some proposals, which in many ways have also been legally inconsistent and yet it must be said that this proposal is much better than the original proposals, because they have been in conflict with our positive legislation, as well as with the obligations Slovenia has towards ours, i.e. under international treaties. However, it must be said that in the whole of this debate, the voice of obviously Slovenians, especially foreigners, has not been enough to hear the voice of all the parties in this House. Comrade Rezman of DeSUS has already told us what reservations they have. We have amendments on the table, which are amendments to the coalition without DeSUS, DeSUS in some part even opposes such a concrete amendment. The representative of the office, the government, including members of the ruling coalition, as we have heard, would like this law to be adopted with the broadest agreement. I must say that I expect that by the third reading, this law will be amended to be acceptable to us. It's not like that right now. We view the law primarily as a collection of measures already taken by the Republic of Slovenia, a collection of instruments which it already has and which it already carries out in relation to its relatives abroad. It seems essential to us that we take a step forward and that our fellow citizens, in place and around the world, also become an entity, which we are always talking about, insist, and all of them. In this proposal, the dispute seems to me primarily Article 19 and, as we have seen from the opening statement by the representative of the foreigners, that is not the case. I have already expressed my expectations that this will be improved, now it is not a debate on Article 19 and a little later. We, as I said, in the entire beginning of this law, until the second reading, have cooperated constructively and tried with our suggestions to reform this law in order to be acceptable to the entire national assembly. There has been a general debate on this law, and I believe there have been many consultations with foreigners and Slovenians around the world. This law was discussed by an interested working body, a commission for Slovenians around the world, and, of course, by the home working body of the National Assembly. This is the Internal Policy Committee in this case. Our proposals, our amendments, which I consider to be very quality and have tried to enrich this law in a qualitative way, were primarily intended to make foreigner as a partner, so they were not supported. We are therefore wondering whether and what the meaning of continuing insistence is, but if one person's democracy continues to apply and all in a row rejects and disobeys and at the same time claims that we want to have a state relationship, that we want to accept it with the broadest agreement, because there is one area here, like some other, where there is a need for the consent of this highest legislative body. As I said, I expect that, on the basis of this debate until the third reading, this position will soften the ruling coalition and that we will eventually be able to adopt a law that will benefit and satisfy all. As far as the amendments and amendments relating to the first article are concerned, I must say that we support a dictatorship involving both repatriation and immigration, which has been adopted by the Internal Policy Committee. They have already said a lot about this, colleague Rezman, colleague Barovic and so on. Let me just say one more thing for myself. If we go to define the word repatriation, Patricia is a country, repatriation is a return to the homeland. It is logical that this concept, at least in my understanding, represents the return of those who have moved away and is too narrow. There is nothing to say about those who have not moved, nothing to say about the possibility of those who are in lieu of helping the Republic of Slovenia in their settlement in the Republic of Slovenia, and in some ways it is discriminatory to relatives in certain parts. That is why we do not think that we will support this amendment, and we think that we should remain a dictatorship as adopted by the Internal Policy Committee, because this article is also linked to the amendment to Article 79, but I am also discussing the content of Article 79. This is an article that speaks of an immigration home that can be set up by the Republic of Slovenia for repatriated or immigrant persons, as we now want to understand. We have proposed a more modern form. It seems to us that setting up such a home that smells like a refugee home is even underestimating to our relatives and that it is not appropriate to regulate this form in this law. We, as I said, have proposed a more modern form to support repatriation or immigration, to support it financially, to support it in terms of allowing for a certain time of accommodation, nutrition and so on, the introduction to Slovenia and the culture of repatriated persons without establishing a home that would say that is unmodern and in some way offensive to our relatives. So much for now, the rest of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Pelican spoke. Do you want it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out once again that this law speaks of repatriation, and this is the return of Slovenians from countries in which there is a severe crisis and this concept of repatriation is defined in Article 71. I fully agree, however, that repatriation is only one part of the return or immigration of Slovenians from abroad to their homeland. I have previously pointed out that we are aware of the importance of returning the Slovenians to their homeland who want to do so, and we encourage them to do so, but not to this extent as provided for in this law for those who enjoy the benefits of a repatriated person. If we looked at paragraph 67, we would see that there are several laws mentioned, namely, in chapter 2, which provide certain benefits that apply to those Slovenians who wish to return to the Republic of Slovenia. I repeat, this is a specific part of the return of Slovenians to their homeland, which we refer to as repatriation in this law, and for this we also provide certain special benefits to those repatriated persons who come from countries in which a particular economic or other crisis reigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! A special greeting is given to Branku Zornu, Rudi Pavšić and all other representatives of civil society sitting on the balcony, as well as to the representative of the State Council. A nice greeting, of course, to my former colleagues from the office for Slovenians in the place and in the world, i.e. representatives of the government! Colleagues and colleagues, of course, I am very pleased that with this law we are today so far away from talking about amendments and that the law today, I believe, in the second reading, will experience what everyone expects, both Slovenians outside the borders and at home, universal national consensus, and that the law will also be so adopted. In this mandate, it is certainly a law that we can say that we will accept with national pride. However, the way to this was long and rather steep. A few wedges on this road broke, and when you thought you were out there somewhere at the beginning, you fell again. However, I am pleased and proud that we already had a commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, which has given itself the primary task of preparing the Slovenian law in place and throughout the world. That is why, on this occasion, I can also say that the government, the office for Slovenians in place and around the world, and we have also written the law in 2004 and sent it or in 2005 to Parliament. Technically, there were two important people here with plenty of fellow workers from both the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy, Science and with all representatives of Slovenians from both the replacement and the representatives of Slovenians from the world, with civil society in Slovenia dealing with this topic, with institutions, which Branko Zorn also talked about, which were created in place and around the world, on their own initiative, to preserve Slovenian identity, to keep the Slovenian language, to keep the Slovenian language wherever they were already on this world. Rudy Merlyak and Brada Kid had one of the most difficult and important tasks here. The law as such is completely very good, perhaps even better than we should have expected. The law, as such, is the main basis of this 2005 bill, which has already been tabled in the parliamentary procedure. It has been shown that those who really get to know the subject have also discussed and accepted some amendments for a long time. This is the commission for Slovenians to replace them around the world led by my fellow Member, Janez Kramberger, and prepared a broad public debate and a debate on individual members here in the National Assembly. As in the previous mandate, the Commission has mainly taken decisions unanimously. It seems very important to me that, under these amendments, the Commission has adopted an amendment to Article 13, then amendments to Article 19 and some other amendments. Although I understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not agree with the amendment to Article 13, the decision is political, the laws are adopted by the National Assembly and the Members and Members. Of course, I believe that we will make the decision as it has already been adopted on the working body or commission itself and then on the working body of the internal policy. It is true that when the law came into the procedure for the mother's working body, also colleague Bevk warned that it would be more logical for the Commission to be a parent, these are some of the illogicalities that we have in the rules of procedure, but so it is. When he got there, there were some open articles due to some concerns that some things would expand, but very quickly it turned out both in the coalition and in the political reality that, as it was written, the law was very thorough and well prepared. But I agree with all those who talk about it, in sayings, in double return. However, when we wrote the law, we had in mind both the organisational and financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. Here in this law, this repatriation says that the status of a repatriated person lasts 15 months. But that's what's behind it. Of course, for everyone else after the adoption of this law, I believe that returning, moving to Slovenia will be more friendly and institutionally different than it has been so far. So far, she has been doing this - so 15 years we will celebrate independent countries this year - she has done this exclusively or in 99% of civil society, that is Slovenia in the world. It has done more than excellent or professionally, without any financial and other support from the State. However, it would be good if, when we have a marriage, we could add another article or two to this repatriation, while returning to others. Perhaps, in order to give those who return two, three months to set up basic basic things for life and work, that this time will have the opportunity to make up for something, which I think would be very good. But I want to get this over with. Throughout the last two months, we have shown our affection for this law, both for the Commission and for the working body, for the general debate, etc., at home and around the world, that we have also moved some things with these amendments to such a quality level as the law had already had in 1994 and it also had when we sent it from the office to government coordination. To continue this positive energy and to take the next two steps: this is a change of constitution and a change in the law on elections to the National Assembly. In order to finally get two representatives, at least two representatives, one from the interior and one from the Slovenians from the world or, I don't know, because the number may be larger, three or four, but still, this minimum consensus, which Slovenians seek in place and in the world, and deserve. I am particularly proud that there are two of us today, and I will be even prouder if we succeed in this mandate with enough political power to upgrade this, so that at the next national elections we will have the opportunity to elect Slovenians and Slovenians in place and throughout the world, their representatives to the Slovenian Parliament. This, of course, will prove that the pillar on which the Slovenians are leaning outside, that is, on the homeland, is the real pillar, which stands on the right hard foundations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Pavšič, Mr Branko Zorn, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Office, with the Secretary of State at the head of the Office! Today, in the context of the second reading, we are dealing with a very important law, which we have already found in the first reading, and this debate is now more the first to be considered than the second. I must say that, as President of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, we feel responsible for this law both in place and in the world and also in the members of our Commission. We may also have a special responsibility, and we have devoted a lot of time to this law. Above all, we have spent a lot of time talking to the public concerned, considering the law in the second reading as an interested working body and also preparing additions. I must stress that we have prepared the supplements and voted them unanimously. With these additions almost 100% were also agreed upon by those who are touched by this law. And of course, I also regret, in some ways, as a coalition Member, that different decisions have been made on the Committee on Internal Policy as on the home labour body, as we have made as the Commission. But this is a political decision. As for these amendments that we are discussing, I would just like to say that this is in some way a misunderstanding. I must conclude that the proposal put forward by the government that this proposal is a good one and the amendments we are now talking about are returning the matter to the Government's proposal. And I think that's good. Article 71 just says what repatriation is under this law, and I don't think it's necessary to read the explanations from different dictionaries, and I don't know what else. Of course, the law is one that will also need to be changed to the future. But now is the moment when we can adopt such a law in such a form, and we will change it when the time is right. My principle is that we may adopt any less and that will be adopted by consensus, including by the consent of those for whom we work, rather than by the adoption of any provisions to which we will come by voting, and then this law will not be able to live as we wish. However, it is also a fact that a slightly worse marriage can be implemented with good will as it is appropriate, but we can have a very good marriage and we do not implement it. Me and our Group of Members will support these amendments, maybe not all of them. With the next amendments that are not yet under consideration, I'll call back later. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Slovenians in place and around the world, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Office! I also believe that this law, which regulates the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place and around the world, is extremely important and necessary. Because, for the first time, Slovenia is a small country and Slovenia is a small nation that has an extremely large diaspora both in place and in the world, which has played an important role in the affirmation of Slovenians, Slovenia and especially in the efforts for an independent state of Slovenia. But of course that's not the only reason. Slovenians must be aware of every citizen who has Slovenian roots and should live anywhere in the world. I think that this has already been set up at different times, as has already been mentioned today, for this matter to be regulated by law. Last but not least, if I recall correctly, we also discussed this in the declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 1999. It is therefore right that the Government or the Office finally draw up such a text of the law, which I believe will nevertheless, despite all the controversy and debates, be a balanced text and will regulate this status with dignity. It must enable Slovenians to be aware at any time and anywhere of their identities, to be proud of this, of Slovenian culture, and to be aware that their homeland values them as an important member of Slovenia and also of Slovenian countries. If I now touch on the dilemma of the amendment to the first amendment and Article 1, the concept of repatriation. I think that in Article 1, what is now proposed is rightly, because I would not agree that the concept of repatriation is too recognized or too narrow, because if I somehow compare with what the Jews all over the world know, then I think we all know why this is going on, because they are a significantly more displaced nation, with a substantial longer history of migration and also, in fact, in some way, with an unimportant history of the home country. In this regard, I think that it is correctly defined, but of course I also agree that the doctrine envisaged for Article 71 is a little too tight and it would be appropriate to improve it by the third reading, so that there is no different understanding of what we are imagining. However, it is the duty of the Slovenian State to allow the return of Slovenians to a comprehensive extent, whether they live in a place or live around the world, for several reasons that the Slovenian, who comes into or decides to do so, can turn around to help in his native country, is extremely important. We must be aware that crises around the world will always occur in different countries and if, in such a situation, persons of Slovenian origin cannot turn to the country from which they originate or their ancestors, it would be extremely sad. This is why we have to adopt this dictatorship or this concept, not as something problematic in this law, but as a basis on which Slovenia will also be able to actually invite these people of Slovenian origin. On the other hand, we must also be aware that a number of people from different nations are moving to Slovenia, which is also positive, because Slovenia itself in some way in this situation does not at this time guarantee natural growth, the natural preservation of the population of Slovenia. For this reason, it is clear, of course, that persons with Slovenian roots are privileged to move in in this sense and repatriation is also the right expression for all that we then think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Terchoon has the floor to prepare Mr Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are talking mainly about Slovenian issues, about Slovenians. Slovenians are most often identified with language, Slovenian. However, sometimes I have a feeling, especially after the performances by my colleague Kramberger, that we do not speak in Slovenian, that we do not understand each other. You give one solution that is of your own accord, and you say, we are happy to accept this agreement. Yes, no, we will not accept this consent, let's be clear. I speak Slovenian. Marriage is bad, but above all it could be better to be clear. And you will accept it by voting. We'll understand that, but don't say it's the broadest consensus. We agree that we need a marriage, we want a marriage, and we want agreement, but we will reach agreement by talking, negotiating, and agreeing. It is nice of you to invite representatives of the Slovenians from the localities and around the world, but they also need to be listened to and respected. If you wish to have consent, you must also take account of the opposition in certain cases. I can only do it in a small part, but something has to be taken into account. I understand my own self-speech, colleague Pukšič, that was my own thanks for the work, I completely understand that, because this law came from under his hands. However, colleague Pukšič, it is necessary to say that you have returned to your work in the next self-sustaining years, in the years of Demos, when working among Slovenians in substitution, in particular in substitution, sectarianism. When it's said, they've been getting enough at the time of socialism, some of them will now get ours. And now all you want is a little more sophisticated play. Yeah, we're all friends, but that's how it's gonna be. That's not how it works. Look. We adopted both resolutions by consensus. The Slovenian Commission, which was established in previous mandates, has been led by the opposition Member on both occasions and you cannot say that the previous position did not have a hearing. My friend Pukšič, you changed your funding in your term, a short one, then you stepped down. First, the globular has been reduced for the foreigners, and secondly, the relationship between roof organisations, which you have already ruled out, has changed so that they were not the subject. And it keeps repeating itself. We, as a parliamentary party, will not allow that. If we are talking about agreement, then listen to us here, and in particular listen to those whom you say the law is intended for them and who have made comments and who have repeated them many times and who have pointed to these issues today. No, you didn't listen. So, please, if we want to talk about consensus if we want to talk about social consensus on this issue, which would be right, consider at least a little, at least the essential. It's not democracy, as I'm telling you, one man's democracy, democracy is to listen to and respect one. These praises, Comrade Pukšič, will not help you or at press conferences, not in the National Assembly, because at the final stage we will tell you clearly how things are. As far as repatriation is concerned, Mr. Pelican. I listened to your explanation, but you didn't remove my doubts. This idea came under the influence of Argentine events, which are now more or less over. But as is the habit of the Slovenians many times, many things are politicized. And there is, of course, some doubt that some political option would not favour its own. We can honestly say this, so we want this to be broader, state-of-the-art, as you say, arrangements, and that everyone, not only the Argentine Slovenes, has it, but also the other Slovenians, even in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, and eventually the foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, did you report to the replica or to the debate? Here, if it's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would like to point out some inaccuracies or some inaccuracies to my colleague Terchoon, but on such a holiday day, they will not get me out of the way. True, dear colleagues, 15 years is running and only 15 years after the independent state do we have this law. By the way, in 2000 the then coalition did not establish this commission for more than half a year, so we worked hard to do so. In particular, Mr Terchoon would like to tell you that the law on repatriation does not say anything, but if you tell me where it says about the Slovenians from Argentina, it says about the Slovenians who are in such an economic or political crisis. When we were preparing the law, we talked a lot because at that time it was about the crisis of the Slovenians both in Bosnia and Macedonia, both in Serbia and in what way, and this is one of the ways in which they could be helped. I think they came through that big crisis in Argentina. Thank God that's true. This means that this political option of this law has not worked for itself. However, in the previous term, as many cash flows as anything else were heard by colleagues from your parliamentary group in the previous term, when they arrived in Buenos Aires at that freight station where Slovenians and Slovenians were landing, those who were politically motivated, different, underwhelmed, misled, were expected not with bread and apples, but with stone in hand. This is what we were told when we presented the Museum of Immigration of Slovenians in Buenos Aires. Also, colleague Ašić, who was Vice-President of this Commission, was actually appalled at what was going on. As for funding or my short term. Actually, I was one of the longest ones I've ever had. A year. Most of the former ones, when they were in this place, were waiting for the post of ambassadors or some other more interesting service and did not substantively dig into the work of this office, but waited for something new. We've done a lot in this short time, and I'm proud of it. Thank you for the tithes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Mr. Pukšič, time for the replica has run out. But you can re-apply to the debate later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	The word has been given by Mr Pavliha, we are being prepared by Mrs Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Dear Mr. President! I wanted to answer my esteemed colleague, Davorin Tarchoon, because he also mentioned me in his consideration and probably didn't understand me properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	That's what you say, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Comrade Targeton! I don't know if we got along well enough. In this debate, I spoke mainly about the work of the Commission. And on this committee of ours, this law has been heard of the voice of both those concerned by this law and also of the parties, members and members of our committee. Please, Comrade Terchoon, if you can read our committee's opinion. We have adopted these positions, which we have given to our mother's working body, unanimously. We have not taken fully into account the SLOMAK proposal, but we have accepted what we have accepted by consensus. And if you have listened well to me, I have said that this law may be better to accept a provision less and to accept it by consensus here in this room, not to share politically with Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia, but to accept something by voting. And I want cooperation here. And that was my purpose, and I'm asking you to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. Now, please, Mr. Pavliha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. He likes to go to another. Thank you again very much for your words, Mr President. Nice greeting especially to our friends from the substation. In the hall and in the tribune as well as representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I must remind myself of our meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration, where a representative of a politically oriented foreign organisation has been able to tell me how you can discuss this issue, since you are only an expert in maritime law. Well, then I didn't want to answer him that way, almost an insult to the fact that I am also experiencing the proposal in practical terms, in at least two roles. I experience him as a descendant of my father’s grandfather, who worked for years in American mines and eventually died there. As a descendant and, of course, still a relative of his mother's brother, who has been living in the United States for 35 years. And last but not least, almost ten years as an immigrant to Primorska, a piranha village that boasts of a foreigner. It was also clear to me on this committee, by the President, that we had had 15 years in the previous government or in the previous governments to adopt this law, and we did not. Therefore, the long-term debate on the appropriateness of the word repatriation is not a waste of time. Maybe. And I recall two documents that were adopted during the previous governments and are also crucial to the content of the present proposal. This is, of course, a resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and the related tasks of the 1996 state and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia and then the 2002 Resolution on Relations with Slovenians. Why do I mention these two documents that I think are really important? I mention them in particular because of the identical provisions they say, I quote in the first document: "Parliamentary parties will seek agreement on the fundamental principles of the policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards Slovenian indigenous minorities in substitution." Such a provision can also be found in the 2002 resolution. And what happened on the last committee? In other words, none of the good hundreds of amendments to the opposition have been adopted. And so no proposal from the main coordination organisation SLOMAK has been adopted, even though the president of the national assembly, which is commendable, said in an interview that it is of course necessary to listen to Slovenian coordination and that it is not possible to adopt this regulation without them. In Article 1, we have proposed what is, on the basis of Article 5 of the Constitution, a more active role for our country. That wouldn't hurt. As the article now says, it says what the law regulates and, of course, it is all over. Our proposal was that the law should explicitly regulate the relations and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, not only so abstractly to the Slovenians who live outside its borders, but also to their associations and organisations, because they operate there. We have also proposed in conjunction with Article 1 a more precise delimitation and definition of repatriation, not in terms of semantology, semantics, but in that repatriation does not cover all cases, such as those that have never been born or lived in our country. They just can't reproduce logically, "re" in Latin means something back, so they can just move in. By the way, I'm here to observe an amendment error, not the migration of the Slovenians, but the immigration should be written, which is clearly an essential difference. If I may mention our constitution, he says that the Republic of Slovenia cares about Slovenians in place and around the world, and that it promotes their contacts with the country. I think of the word "care" as something active, if I can compare, for example, with the protection of the environment, which is also defined in the Constitution, it does not just mean protection. This does not only mean preventive action or possibly curative action, i.e. addressing the consequences, but also means improving the situation, which is bad. And at the same time, it is totally unacceptable, given that there are about 500,000 Slovenians living abroad, that is, another quarter according to the existing population. The only thing I would like to say about repatriation is this, even though we will talk about these articles, that we have taken the problem in my own way in a weak, inactive way, so on and on, in part, contrary to Article 5 of the Constitution. In the current proposal, most of the problem will be solved by setting up, opening up a home for immigrants or for our immigrants. Such a home reminds too much of others, because of me, even asylum seekers who cannot be pushed into the same basket. On the other hand, we reject the idea of making money available so that we can settle our lives after returning to our homeland. This way, of course, we will not motivate them. I remember one case when I lived alone for a few years abroad. It was some kind of a third congress, I think it was 1990 or 1991 - and I will end with it - when many of our natives returned to this consultation with the desire to help the new country, but to contribute knowledge and also money, whatever it takes. This advice - and I speak on the basis of what I learned from one of the participants - looked like our people, our politicians, on the other hand, were emigrants. Nothing happened. This particular professor of medicine was not invited to any lecture, well, and of course he picked up a shilling and a hoof and went back to Canada where he lives now. If we are actively addressing this issue - and I still hope that we will - there is still a third treatment before us, I am still optimistic that at least a few of our proposals, in particular the proposals of SLOMAK, will be taken into account, including with regard to Article 1, - then we have a few prospects that our fellow citizens will not forget us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Get Mr. Barovic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Slovenians in exchange, Mr Pavšič, and the Slovenians in the world, Mr Zorn, honourable Members and Members! The problem that I see at the second reading of this law would be that we actually have two resolutions to deal with, which are the result of historical and many other reasons, why these two groups of Slovenians, however, need to be dealt with from different perspectives when we ask about their legal status in the country they live in, from historical circumstances and from a variety of other backgrounds. I refer in particular to the words of Mr Pavšić, who reminded me of the Slovenian poet and publicist Aceta Mermoljo and the verb that it would be right to add together, but not count down. I'd say it's very important that we don't count either. I also see the problem in this dynamic world, where mobility or mobility is a very important component of our lives, linked to some reverse direction of movement, which is also affected by this law. This is immigration. Repatriation, which has been the subject of a number of concerns in this law, I do not see as a language problem because all those who have dealt with this aspect of the problem have had to realize that repatriation is the word of the Slovenian book language, that by its origin it is taken over, but that it is very large in Slovenian, but repatriation is a word that has a stable substantive scope and is explained, and here we can now begin to talk or be weighed enough or not, in the 71st and 72nd articles of the law under consideration. Thus, I cannot think in all these debates about repatriation beyond the context that was created when we adopted a resolution on Slovenians around the world. At the time, however, this word was related to a specific context that represented the position of the Slovenians in Argentina and much less than elsewhere. I understand repatriation in this context and as a targeted concern of the state of Slovenia to ensure the possibility of returning to those who wish to come to Slovenia. But you know, in Slovenia we did not always lose our population in this country, we also won the population. I mean those many coastal relatives who also settled in Maribor in the 1930s when they fled from fascism and grew into the environment in which they live. I know a lot of them, but I haven't heard from any of them that they'd be ready to move now, because they've created their living environment in a place where I can't say they wouldn't accept them with affection. Therefore, this sensitive issue of repatriation needs to be assessed from the point of view, the material weight, the content, the consequences of repatriation attributed by the drafter of the law. And once again, I see this as defined in paragraphs 71 and 72, and I leave an open question as to whether this is a satisfactory solution for all those who think about returning or moving Slovenians. And perhaps it would be good if we too learned something from the European Union and from the movement of the three D's: dialogue, democracy and negotiation, and perhaps more openly take the initiative to publicly present opinions on this law, when we also get a broader platform for an exchange of views, and I do not want to deny the work done by the Slovenian Commission around the world. It is simply that the scene would be wider, a payphone broader opportunity for us to listen and agree on things and perhaps see why we do not have the same perspectives. I cannot otherwise intervene in this complement now, as my fellow Member, Sam Bevk, has said, that we will support the proposed amendments, but I understand them as well as the problems that have arisen in this regard, or that change as possibly too little to listen and too little to think about what we really want. If you ask me, it bothers me most in this definition that we are willing to open the door to those who are useful to us to say so. There is an unacceptable word used for me, a contribution, which again allows counting and separating and counting, not counting, as Mr Pavšič urged us to do in his performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Also to the President for the holding of the sitting so far. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, I wouldn't, or I wouldn't mind saying today that this law is at first reading, but it's not, it's in second reading, and I suggest, Mr Vice-President, that we actually stick to the second reading and the amendments. I don't know how to point this out, but this moment seems to me, because otherwise we can all say a million other things. Thank you, Mr. Pelican. I listened to him very carefully and confirmed my doubts or claims. Article 1 is an essential article. Article 1 refers to what this law governs. If, colleagues and colleagues, we accept the amendment to Article 1, this law changes its essential content. If we exclude in this essential article 1 and all others the term "immigration of Slovenians" is given the second paragraph of Article 1 which says: "The law regulates the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship and repatriation." And if we look at Article 71, we clearly and loudly find that we only have a law before us for those Slovenes who will be organised and paid by the country. Not for the others. Not for the others! And to confirm this, it is also what Mr Pelikan pointed out when we look at Article 67, which states: "Other rights, benefits and reliefs that may be exercised by persons with Slovenian status without Slovenian citizenship and are not cited by this law and provided for by sectoral laws." Which means that for others, the second type of Slovenians, not those to whom the State organises and pays them, this law does not apply to other sectoral laws. And once again, I'm not talking about it, marriage is necessary, unnecessary, political and other controversies, not at all. I warn that if we accept the amendment to Article 1, if we exclude the word "immigration of the Slovenians" and if we exclude this relationship all the time, this law is no longer the law on all Slovenians and Slovenians outside Slovenian borders, but only for returnees. However, if we want the law on Slovenians and Slovenians outside the borders, in all articles we must necessarily maintain the word "immigration of Slovenians" because there is a large, large substantive difference between this and the repatriation. And we exclude all those Slovenians and Slovenians who were born abroad who have no social or other problems and would like to come here, but this law will not apply to them or will apply if the state organises and pays them, as stated in Article 71. So once again, reason! Let us look closely at these articles, look closely at the difference between the term "immigration of Slovenians" and repatriation and leave the basic text and both basic terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic, since the President has obviously decided to allow for a broader debate, given that this is Article 1 and all other related, I have no right to strictly restrict this debate to amendments now because it would be unfair to those who are still applying. That is why I invite you to the word of Mr. Skolcz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We started this debate with some very thoughtful opinions on how great this law is, and then we heard that it's not actually that great, and we heard that practically everyone who is interested was involved in the reception. And to the torture we have also heard the recognition that, in fact, all the things that interested foreigners have proposed have come from the text on the home committee. But obviously the perception of marriage and the solutions it brings will be different. With this, I hope that there will be no need to politicize it. What surprises me is that Mr Kramberger, on the one hand, says that a practical agreement has been reached on the Commission. That's what cheered me up. In the next step, of course, he is pleased that the amendment government has made significant changes. What's that supposed to mean? Are we looking forward to paying attention to the foreigners first and then to the fact that the government coalition is essentially erasing it? But that's what the vote will show. With this, I'm not going to deal with these embarrassments right now. What is evident is that some progress in the text of the law has been made since the first reading and I associate it with the fact that, fortunately, Mr Pukšič can no longer have as much impact on the formulations as he could have previously. So maybe it will be, please, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I was very relieved of Mr. Pukšič when you left this office. [[...]] The people concerned are even more important, but at this point we are working together to create legislative solutions, and they will still be more concerned with others than the two of us, and it is therefore worth listening more to these others than this self-assurance. I return to this Article 1 and to the Supplements to delete the word immigration. I object to that. I am opposed for a simple reason because there remains a dictatorship that is substantially narrower and, as we see in this debate, despite explanations, causes some misunderstandings. The purpose of this kind of law, which is also a kind of political declaration, is not to understand the attitude towards all the people who are touched by it. I will not explain to you that from our family as well as probably from all other people are displaced across all continents and that I do not need to be particularly convinced from this point of view that I do not understand any things. But the concept of immigration nevertheless allows for repatriation, while the concept of repatriation allows for doubts that this will be done differently. Immigration is permissible in this way as the desired form of acquiring new powers to use terminology. Here it is, immigration is then allowed from the place, it is also allowed by those people who were born outside Slovenia and will not come back, but will if they actually move in. Repatriation, as defined in Article 71, is essentially linked to the country's availability to buy a ticket or arrange a return. That sounds good to me, but it's too narrow. Therefore, if we were looking for a broader solution, it would be more important to delete the word "repatriation", and I will say, this desire and the opportunity offered to relatives of our family to link it to the concepts of immigration. That would be substantially broader. It would allow for more manoeuvres, allowing free will for people, including those who do not need state aid and so on. That's why, fellows, I'm just calling for this amendment to be abandoned and, to a large extent, to be deleted by another term. This will make it possible for Slovenia to be more open to the public and the misunderstandings contained in this title will be significantly less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you. Mag. Kramberger signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Joža Školč. I would like to say again in explanation that the opinion which is, or what the Commission has adopted, we have accepted this with the very agreement and that I am proud and happy about it. What you said in your debate on the chapter of repatriation was not in fact a dispute for the committee. We have understood that, as the Government's proposal states, repatriation means this under this law. That whoever gets in trouble, the state of Slovenia will help them, the Slovenes and the Slovenes. But no one else, nor does it say in this law that it prevents anyone from returning to Slovenia. So I was only talking about what we talked about on the committee. [[...]] And I am pleased that we have these amendments, that these amendments put these amendments back on the table, that the proposal of the government is still up to date, that we are returning the text with these amendments, what the government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the floor, Mr Koren is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm having the most fun when someone's teaching in style, if I don't know, and I'm gonna teach others. Something like that happened here today. Secondly - because I don't have time, I have to speak very briefly - the marriage is good, but it could be significantly better. It's contradictory inside. He talks about how Slovenians are no strangers anywhere in the world, but they return according to the regulations of the law on foreigners. Talk about how we will speed up demographics, and we are preventing some obstacles from returning to us young people, educated, etc. He's talking about a whole series of other things that are being hampered by this narrowness that they can't be realized. That was our point, to spread it, to spread it. Next. The law is discriminatory in my judgment. Even a number of such elements can be found. Now's not the time to list everything. Mr. Pelican understood if I understood him correctly. But he said, they drew a line for me, and I can't cross that line. I understand that, too. Only I would feel unhappy in a situation like this. Teeth tightening. I'm not in favour of voting by pressing teeth. I am not in favour of subjecting myself to discipline, discipline is not universal, and it does not have an eternity of time; it will have to stop once. By the way, I don't want to be mean, Mr Pavliha, you were talking about how your amendments were not supported. If you hadn't said that, I wouldn't have said that if you hadn't been there to defend your amendments, you weren't there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm forced to answer that, even though I'm from this town. A few of us were there, maybe not all of us, but a few of our Group's representatives were always present. Mr. Koren has the word, get ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	I'd like to deny what's said. You all left in a moment and then you were gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	Now, of course, I'm forced to answer again. Of course, we went somewhere in the middle of the session when we realized that it was all "bob against the wall" that our amendments would not be accepted, as well as that no wish of SLOMAK would be taken into account. I ask you kindly not to put me in this situation again when I have to answer from the Vice-President's or the President's seat, because of course this is not right. Replica to whom, Mr. Puksich? Mr. Puksich. We're moving on. Mr. Koren and get ready, Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to all Members and Members and, of course, to our Secretary of State, Mr Pelikan. I think today is an important day for the Slovenian Parliament to say quite a holiday. This morning we hosted the President of the European Commission of the European Union, of which we, Slovenia, are part. In this Union, where borders between individual nations are gradually disappearing. We are also considering a law that deals with Slovenians in place and around the world or that discusses what the Republic of Slovenia must do to these relatives. I believe that this law is very important and that it should not in fact be the law of the division of this Slovenian Parliament, but must be the law of unity of all Slovenians, of all members of this Parliament, of all Slovenians outside the borders, both in place and throughout the world. Slovenia has at least 15 years to adopt such a law. I think she's so mature in these 15 years, because she's about to be a full-year-old, and even with the adoption of this law, she can prove that she's an adult, that she can take responsibility for her own life, for her own actions. I believe that we must also thank our fellow citizens abroad for all that they have done at the time of our independence, when they have made a great deal of contributions for coming out of our former country in the way we have come out, without great sacrifices, and above all that we have achieved the recognition of the international community so quickly. Here, I am sure, and I think that I share this belief with many of you, is also a great credit to our kinsmen in place and around the world. Secondly, in order to adopt this law, we are also obliged because all these years when relatives live abroad, in exile, we kept this vocabulary when they cared for Slovenian language when they cared for Slovenian culture and carried it to their children. I have come to the conclusion and to the realization that we who live in our homeland should learn a lot and a lot of things from our kinsmen both in place and in the world. I believe that the law we are considering today is good. I am also a member of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, and I must stress once again, particularly because of Mr Terchoon's debate earlier on how the position takes all marriage solutions without opposition. On the Commission, we have dealt with the matter with all the members of the Commission, both the opposition and the positions, and we have tried to adopt all things unanimously, unitedly. And I think we've done it to a great extent. That is why I will also support this amendment to Article 1 and all the others that affect it, because we are actually returning this text to the form, as the law was passed on the committee itself. However, in this debate, let me stress two other things that I think are very important, but they do not directly apply to this amendment. The first thing is, I personally think, and I think that all fellow Members agree with me, that this is the position of our Group of Members, that the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world must be led by a Minister without a ticket. If we do this, then I'm sure we'll give them the place that the Slovenes in place and in the world deserve. Since only the Minister is present at all government meetings and can participate in all areas, because the areas that touch Slovenians in place and around the world are very wide, we can say that all areas are also affected by Slovenians in place and around the world. And that's why we're giving so much weight that the office has to run a minister without a license. And I'm sure the time will come when we will. And another thing I would like to point out is, I sincerely want to see a change in our constitution and that we will have at least two Members elected by the Slovenians in place and throughout the world in this national assembly. This too will be one of the ways we will give the right place to give to our fellow believers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by Mrs Lavtišar Bebler and it shall be the turn of Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I very much agree with the content of Mr Rezman's debate, which said that the law of the interior is contradictory and that it is discriminatory, I do not agree with his decision on the basis of these findings that the law is good. I can't be a good law if it's internally contradictory and discriminatory. And I must say that even though I have been a Member of this National Assembly for more than a year now, I am still obviously naive, because I believed the applicant's explanation that he wants to regulate relations with the Slovenians around the world and instead of being fair to all these Slovenians. That is why I was also one of those who, on the Committee on Internal Policy, proposed that in addition to the term repatriation, which I, as a lawyer, consider to be "terminus technicus", that this content of this concept should also extend to the immigration of Slovenians. Immigration because I think that Slovenia, if it really is up to it to have as many Slovenians back in Slovenia as possible, would also have to allow the possibility to move to Slovenians or people of Slovenian descent whose Slovenia has never been their home country before, but for various personal reasons want to become citizens and residents of this country. By the way, I'm just going to remind you how sincere we really are about these things to one such attempt to repatriate the Slovenians. It was performed in a very spectacular way. I think it happened in 1993, when then Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel, and I don't know who else was with him, traveled to Sarajevo and brought back about 100 Slovenians to help them settle here in Bosnia and Herzegovina and live the full life of Slovenian citizens. I know that I later read that these Slovenians live very miserablely here in Slovenia and that no one else wants to deal with them. I don't know exactly what their subsequent destiny was, but it was clearly a pianist marketing move, not a real concern and a real purpose for these Slovenians to make life easier because of the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time. So I proposed that the concept of immigration be included in this second paragraph of Article 1, because I believed that everyone else who had never been to Slovenia was not a direct country but wanted to settle in it. I also thought that someone might be on the side of the foreign Slovenians in Austria or Italy or their descendants, who, perhaps now that Slovenia has become a member of the European Union, also see greater opportunities for their personal development in settling in Slovenia and that, of course, the country, because it is so good to all Slovenians, would also help to facilitate the regulation of the living and other conditions in Slovenia. Now that this amendment has been tabled again, that is to say, that the concept of immigration is deleted and only repatriation remains, and in Article 71, it is said how repatriation under this law can be understood, that is to say not only those to whom Slovenia has already been a country, but also their descendants. Then we read further in Article 72 that this means the possibility of repatriation only for those Slovenians and their descendants who live in countries in a difficult economic or other crisis. Then it would be better if, or the address were more appropriate, this content was said to be a law on the repatriation of Slovenians and their descendants from countries in a difficult crisis. Now that the law is discriminatory, of course, because who knows when a country is when a country is in a difficult crisis. This is every time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, by its discretion, will assess which country is the one that is in this crisis, and then it continues to be good to see that these Slovenians who want to enjoy the fruits of this repatriation also have to attach certificates to the relevant organisations and institutions, obviously in those countries where they now live. These are all some of the formulations that do not belong to the law because these legal standards are not specific and are uncertain as to how they will be interpreted and also allow for an excessive discretionary right. Now I would even hope to say that this is the law on the repatriation of Argentine Slovenians, if not, thank God, I also know that countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro, are in crisis. So, probably even from these countries, the Slovenians will be able to return to Slovenia. But the question, as it is said, depends on how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will assess each time and whose relevant institutions, what this term "appropriate institutions" means, is not clear from the law. So I think this marriage is basically misleading, in addition to everything I've said before, and it's very bad. In addition, it is very bad because despite the proposal's assurances that it wants to take the suggestions of the Slovenians into account in the replacement, but the suggestions of SLOMAK have not been taken into account, and I must say, and I must say that I have here expressed great opposition to this fact, and I do not think it is fair to deceive and, in the final stage, to underestimate the representatives of SLOMAK who sincerely believed that they have a real possibility of having an impact on what kind of law this State assembly will adopt in the final stage, and then we must all obviously find together that there is no fair purpose here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat has the floor and Mrs Kucler Dolinar will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable President of Slovenian Minority Coordination, Mr Rudi Pavšič, distinguished representative of Slovenians around the world, Dr Branko Zorn, representatives of the government, dear Slovenians and Slovenians in place and around the world, Members and Members! I attach to many of my colleagues and colleagues that today he will record at least three historical events in the Slovenian Parliament. For the first time, the visit of the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, for the second time, for the first time, by representatives of Slovenians outside the border of Slovenia for a parliamentary speaker and for the third time, deals with the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, with which the State of Slovenia finally, after 15 years, has gathered enough will and begins to apply the fact that Slovenians, in place and around the world, together with the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Republic of Slovenia, have formed a common Slovenian cultural space, and that Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia are an equivalent part of the unified Slovenian nation, which is finally enshrined in our coalition agreement, which is our commitment. With regard to the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill, I would like to say that I have no problem with supporting this and similar amendments, since only by adopting these will a chapter on repatriation be defined more clearly or the law will be more compatible with the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world in 2002. Let the law itself live its life, and this Parliament will also change it accordingly if there are clear mistakes. I also have strong feelings about this law, especially when I think of many genuine relationships with Slovenians in place and around the world. Slovenian expatriates and foreigners must be grateful to the new countries that have accepted them for their shelter and bread. Heart culture led them to organize themselves within Slovenian societies and Slovenian parishes, and this has preserved the Slovenia practically in all the continents of this world. Their children were born there, representatives of the third generation of emigrants are coming to Slovenia, for example, in Canada, which is particularly close to my heart and where I was fortunate enough to make sure that a great Slovenian heart is beating in Canada. Ours and their ancestors were born in Slovenia, which left such a strong seal that after many years of eviction we meet and speak in the same language about common things. As in the moments of Slovenian independence, which has been repeatedly stressed today and international recognition, the role of Slovenians living their vocabulary hundreds and thousands of kilometers away from their homeland was very important. The perception of Slovenia as economically and culturally developed and mature countries has been helped both by organized action and by daily testimony about who Slovenia is and who Slovenia is. For such a precious, mostly voluntary personal embassy, dear Slovenians and Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, on my own behalf and on behalf of the New Slovenia Group at this time, I sincerely thank you. Let today's law and the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders ensure that your home country is Slovenia with you and that you are part of it. Take this as a tribute, a thank you and an incentive for continued active and lasting cooperation, as well as a gift for the 15th birthday of our common country. Therefore, dear Slovenians from the world, young and old, independent Slovenia and all of us who live in it receive you and strive that you will never feel forgotten from your homeland. All together, Slovenians at home, in place and around the world, in many generations, let us preserve a vibrant Slovenian culture and Slovenian consciousness wherever anyone lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Kucler Dolinar has the word, then Mr Jerovšek is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Once again, a nice hello to you all. With the draft law we have today in second reading, the government has responded to the 15-year need for systemic regulation in this area, so today's step with the adoption of the law will certainly be a very big step forward. The Slovenians in their place and in the world, left to themselves, would certainly not be able to achieve the goals, the great goals they have set themselves in caring for the preservation of the school, cultural, sports and other cells they form in the environment in which they live and, in particular, in the care of the transfer of Slovenia to the next generations. We have long witnessed blackmail from Slovenia, so it would be useful in all respects to start turning these flows in a different direction, in the direction of moving back to Slovenia, of course if they wanted to. Let's give our people support, let's open our doors for them. To this end, I have also supported amendments aimed at extending the concept of repatriation also to move to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. And Mr Kramberger mentioned earlier that the committee was dealing with a topic that he did not know. I myself supported the amendments in the consciousness that the concept of repatriation could be replaced by a more appropriate concept. I hope that, irrespective of what appears to remain of this basic form of repatriation, these persons will be dealt with in principle in their favour and not narrowly on the principle of restrictiveity. And in view of the more than seven-year debate on the Committee on Internal Policy, there is no way to say, in cooperation and debate of all those invited in the same composition as on the Commission, that this debate was not of substantive quality. And let me respond to the debate from the committee in this direction even to the obvious that no amendments have been adopted, which were proposed by representatives of SLOMAK or the Slovenian expatriate matrix. In the introduction, I have already explained in the Committee's report that the Commission has proposed some amendments that have been drafted and adopted on the proposal of SLOMAK and the Slovenian expatriate matrix. And the Committee adopted the amendments of the Commission for a new Article 3a to Article 13, Article 19, Article 38, Article 41, Article 99, Article 99 and Article 99a, so they cannot bear the opposition's colleagues' observations that no proposal was adopted. In short, if I assess it, most of them were accepted. Otherwise, I'll be right back. I am also pleased that during the course of the proceedings during the first hearing that we had, and this second one, also the solutions that we stressed and also proposed by the Members of the New Slovenia, as such, have been highlighted at the first reading. However, it is certainly only with positive mentality that the law will also be able to live in full meaning and thus achieve the objectives for which it has been proposed and will undoubtedly be adopted today in the context of this meeting, and in particular the law is worthy of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor and Mr Bevk is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I am pleased that colleague Kucler said that many amendments and opposition proposals have also been adopted in the debate or in the committee's adoption, and that this has led to the denial of some of the predecessors of the LDS Group, who today, to my regret, have been very negative and very aggressively identified by the bill. I must say that I applied earlier at Mr Terchoon's performance, because he has shown the direction in which the LDS Group will work today and probably in the future. To say here that the period of Demos was the most sectarian period to the Slovenians around the world and instead, and that it's something dark, I have a magnetogram here, is in fact incomprehensible to me. In the same package I also give the challenge of colleague Pukšič by colleague Školč, strongly negative characterization of his [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and his work, and I must say that I am sorry that I have heard such assessments so far only from circles that have a clear connection to the udibov circles. And I am sorry that these two fellow Members have identified themselves and notified themselves on the same lines. And I would ask and appeal that they do not try to separate and impatience to read here and try to include representatives of the minority who are sitting here today from within and around the world. This morning, I read Mr Rudi Pavšić's interview at Evening, and I must say that there is no intolerance that I have heard from these discussions, it is aware that there is a need to work with some breadth, that it is not really possible to incorporate everything into the law at this point in time, that, in fact, the policy towards the Germans and the Slovenians around the world will have to be continuously refined and improved. Here I see a clear tendency, to engage in these disputes strongly sectarianally also representatives of the minority and it is a shame that Mr Zorn is not in here now. I would really ask him to give us whether the Slovenian period of Demos really felt the world as a period of sectarianism, something the worst in Slovenian history. Then why did the Slovenians then so engage for recognition, and immediately before that, the Slovenian countries. And many thanks to that account, and I also have to say when Bebler's colleague talked about that bus from Sarajevo and how neglected or forgotten they lived. Who was in power then? Who forgot them? Who just performed permanently? And forward, a clear diction, a clear statement by Mr Terchoon that it is impossible to reach agreement that their consent will not be, I find it very strange, very dangerous now that we are in the second reading of the law. I have not been able to present such determined statements, decisions and predictions under such an important law and when I think we have reached some agreement with the Slovenians in the place and in the world. It is not enough that it has been said twice, everything on the committee has been adopted unanimously. I have heard, of course, the critical thoughts and suggestions of our fellow citizens around the world at the stage of the drafting of the law, but I have not heard these rejections which I hear today. Once again, Mr Rudi Pavšič is very sober today to see what is possible and what is not possible, where progress is being made and, in fact, to adopt this law in such a form with possible improvements. And not to involve them, not to do what was done in the previous regime, under the pretext that it was sectarian, that the Slovenes were shared because this was the easiest way to control them. You want one of these divisions between Slovenians in exchange and your cousins. Let's stop this! Let us adopt a law that will allow the Slovenians to feel proud of their roots, to feel at least those prides that are so powerfully expressed throughout the world. Are you going to start saying today that Argentine Slovenians are descendants of some traitors and I don't know what? Is that what we're gonna hear? Despite the preservation of Slovenian language through many organizations? I don't want to. And once again, please, it is not the right place and the right way for such a political struggle, actually a cultural struggle under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Of course, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm going to try to answer two things last time, which are repeated over and over again, because obviously we don't hear from each other. There's one about the amendments that have been adopted. We did not claim that no amendment had been adopted. There were also some who went along with what they proposed from SLOMAK. However, no LDS amendment since the 13th was adopted; it was adopted in a similar manner, but none of the LDS was accepted. And since you are already talking about the consent of the Slovenians and the foreigners, I think that Mr Rudi Pavšič said in the opening recital that they cannot agree on Article 19 and above, Article 20. As far as our agreement is concerned, I have said that we cannot give consent to such a law as it is now and as it will be formed, obviously, on the basis of these amendments. And I said that we also expect that by the third reading it will be improved, especially the key article 19th. It is up to you to accept at least one amendment. Although it is true that many things cannot be fixed in the third reading, because the articles will not be open; some will if today’s amendments are adopted. I therefore reiterate that it is up to you whether we reach this agreement or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Well, in the meantime on the bench you received an amendment correction, probably based on my remark that the word "movement" is replaced by the word "immigration". We continue with the debate, which is Mr Bevk's turn, and then Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. In the general treatment that we had in this national assembly, no one was sickened by repatriation. If there were no amendments to the SDS, NSI and SLS at the hearing on the parent committee, I am sure that the matter would have passed because the repatriation in the basic text was as well and clearly explained by the legislator in the 71st article of the law, and then these amendments, the multitudes of amendments in which the diction of the return was discussed and then we thought about how to replace this rather controversial word, since then the return of the returnee in some articles would have also occurred, as my colleague Gulič had pointed out in that debate. The word "returner" has a bad connotation especially in the administration's court, etc., when they say that someone is a returnee, because he has committed a crime again, then there has been this relocation and all this terrible discussion that is now repeated. At that time, from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., we attended that meeting when we discussed this law, most of which was this law. So, yes, if there were no such amendments, as in the general discussion of the matter, the matter would go quite smoothly. We know what the legislator was thinking about repatriation. I say that mass return will never be like the mass response of emigrants to elections. We have 60,000 Slovenian citizens evicted and replaced, barely a few thousand exploiting electoral rights. The Slovenes of the second, third generation, who are born abroad, who have families, jobs, relatives, friends who have become entangled in their environment will mostly not return to us. But I would like to remind you of the situation in Argentina in South America in 2002. I was a member of the commission twice on a visit to Buenos Aires, once in 2000 and twice in 2002. I'll tell you when we talked to our emigrants, totally diametrically, the opposite picture and the situation. In 2000, we had a very political conversation, they were interested in Slovenian internal policy issues, how the coalition, how the opposition, how the left parties, so to speak, right parties, all these issues have been half-lived in history and II. World War II. In 2002, there was no mention of this, because there was a major crisis, an economic and financial crisis, when the country took large savings to the people of Argentina, and, of course, with this also to our cousin, overnight. And they were in a really difficult and difficult economic situation, and they were particularly interested in how our country could help them, the emigrants, in South America, and indeed something came back, including with the help of evicted organizations, including the help of the government. So that I think that in the future some wave of immigration or the arrival of our emigrants in Slovenia can occur mainly because of some economic or other severe crisis in these countries and, if any young family moves to us, perhaps experts, doctors, that is what we all want, because we know that doctors are very lacking in us. The Group of Social Democrats is extremely unyielding to this bill, but if some of the developments continue to be so - here in particular I thought my colleague Jerovska - perhaps someone will change their mind, which would not be good. I will also support the law in the third reading, because today we will only vote on the amendments. However, in this discussion, I would like to say that there are many problems that are open to the problems of the Slovenians who live incarcerated and evicted, and I do not agree with some of the government's moves in this mandate. Here I would specifically point out a discriminatory attitude towards the Slovenian expatriate mother, who has never been as negative in the last 15, 16 years as it is in this year and half of this government and can hardly work because she does not have the resources to operate. Then, for the first time, it happened that Slovenian companies dealing with emigrants were not named with financial items in the national budget. They're only in the title in brackets, and then there's this bag where every time the government shares money. I don't think that's good. And I am also very critical of this award of citizenship, especially on the basis of the naturalisation or Article 13 of the Citizenship Act. After last year's end, when I asked the government a question, it turned out to be a very problematic area. In 2005, the Office issued a total of 1203 negative decisions from 1644 requests to the office, which is more than 73%, especially to our relatives, to Slovenians living in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, as well as some cases of our emigrants from Argentina, among these negative decisions. That is true, I will quote from the magnetogram when my colleague Petek said, for example, Italy had a lot of positive roles, but let's say from Croatia there were 250 applications, positive opinions were 86, from Bosnia and Herzegovina there were 104 applications, positive 30, say Serbia and Montenegro 767 applications, positive only 67, 700 negative or Macedonia, where 170 applications were made and there were only positive opinions from the Slovenian office in exchange and around the world, and the Commission decided this year to call on the government and the office to check all these negative decisions in 2005. We are prepared to support this law, but we have serious concerns and criticisms about the implementation of this government's policy on these issues that I have just mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will remain with Article 1 because it seems to me that there is actually beginning to be this confusion, which occurred at the time of writing this law, with all the corrections, with all the amendments adopted, rejected and, of course, with all the concerns and discussions that have arisen in this regard. Nevertheless, I consider everything that has happened so far to be a positive one, even today's debate, because it does, however, clarify and clear up certain matters. But, of course, he also says something about us who speak here. Some of them are just for collective punishment, Mr Jerovšek has also considered me a widower, and I know very little about it, but I know that the morsel knew something about me. And there's something else you can say. But it doesn't matter, let's get to the point, it's repatriation and immigration, of course. Of course, as a Slovenian, I am more into immigration, because it still covers everything that we would also like with repatriation, return, readmission, acceptance of Slovenian citizenship, compliance or whatever we consider. Immigration is a broad concept, very clear, it also says that it is not related to generations, so I do not have to go anywhere, so that I can then move and actually cover all Slovenes who have ever left the language territory of Slovenia for such or other reasons, because there are many who have not left the country, but also Austria, Yugoslavia, SFRJ, FLRJ, DFJ or today's Slovenia. All of these are covered and all of their descendants can, of course, move in. Of course, when it comes to helping a country, it can be determined, but certainly not as stated in Article 72, that Slovenia must be found to be in a serious economic crisis and political crisis. We could be in an individual, social, but I'm just gonna leave you there? So there's something else you could say. In addition, they must be useful. It does not contain useful, I apologize, writing can contribute to the development and implementation of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this is discriminatory. It's also discriminatory for us who live here. Specifically, what happens to these people when they come here for a while, we will help them, then we will leave them, or we will give them privileges that we do not have in Slovenia. Things are complicated. We've complicated them ourselves, of course, but we've also complicated them because we're thinking about it, and I believe that we've all been thinking about it constructively, positively, or whatever we call it. The Slovenians are such a nation that we are more global. Although we are very few, we are well placed on this earth’s surface and, in fact, we are doing relatively well everywhere. And those who, of course, feel that they are still Slovenians or that they are Slovenian roots, of course, can contribute to the way we live in our homeland or in the country of Slovenia in different ways, not only by being here, but also by being there and most of them obviously decide so. In immigration, of course, we cover, in this term we also cover those which are usually treated as natives, although one part of the home is approaching the eviction, even where it was absolutely necessary. In Switzerland it is necessary to say after a few years that you will remain Switzerland and that you will end it. And you don't have any more citizenship here. Of course, this is mainly about highly educated people who obviously would not come back here, but of course they would still participate in Slovenia, say, at least one part of their social or social life. The kind of stuff opens up, of course deeper when we go, and more when we touch each other's stories. Of course, the law cannot and must not take account of all these stories. However, at least in these general articles, which were also adopted by the Committee for Slovenians in place and around the world, as well as those proposed by the LDS, could be limited in this way, so that there would be fewer opportunities for abuse, segregation, different interpretations, then I will say, just so, personal decisions, who is here, who is there and so on. At 10 a.m. today, Mr Barroso came here, bringing us a great message on democracy, dialogue and debate. I hope, of course, he didn't just bring it to me, he brought it to all of us in the '90s. Dialogue and debate, that's what we can do to help each other, so that as much as we can support laws with our consent or without our teeth pressed down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'd like to add something small to this for a magnetogram on this occasion. In fact, I would like to say at the outset that I am glad that it finally came to Slovenia in its own right to adopt this law. Of course, we are all aware that this is not the best and the most ideal solution, because it is probably not possible to accept such a solution, because at the final stage everyone would have any other proposal for correction, and I would like to add something else to what he has taken away, but we are looking for some compromise solution to get, after all, this law. We have adopted a resolution on Slovenians around the world a long time ago, I think in 2002, if I recall correctly. I know that at that time there was also an attempt to pass the Slovenian law around the world, but then the opposition put it in, and in fact something similar happened today - if the opposition proposes something to change the position a little bit or make its own. And so it's probably in all the multi-party systems. So, the expectations of the Slovenians around the world were the greatest, after the changes, then in 1990. In particular, political emigration expected a lot. And today, after fifteen years, I too find when I'm in touch with them that these expectations are no longer so great. Actually, I'd say a lot of people have given up. That is why it is also relatively small - earlier, I think the colleague Bevk mentioned - participation in each election, if of course I let go of the fact that the procedure was also relatively complicated, that they had to be reported and re-registered every time and so on. So, they saw that what they were expecting was not happening in their homeland, and so they somehow moved their minds away from their former homeland, and today it is still theirs. And I think that this law will be able to fix some of this, and above all it will be possible to correct it if we stop with some of them, so to speak, in prejudication, even many times in this House today's "enemies" speaks when we are somehow speaking ill of Argentina and this is most often in connection - I have to mention it here today because it is very constantly affecting me - with the finance minister. On every occasion, some fellow Members are trying to tell him that what he is proposing is Argentine solutions and so on, although we all know that this is the country that is our poor then - otherwise you can't call them, because if someone loses their parents, a poor person, if he loses his home, is also a poor person, the country hasn't accepted them, and Argentina was then the country that offered them this opportunity to survive under this equally holy sun. And even today, we hear many times in this National Assembly, I'd say, stumblers in this account. I think that one day it will have to stop and that this is also an opportunity to achieve this and once and for all we stop doing it. As far as the concept of repatriation and Article 72 are concerned, there is an amendment here today, so that this article for third reading will remain open. I think it is possible to complement it, although I do not believe that after these years we would return to the great Slovenians, they always come back at a time when in the country where they really live there is some big change, some unpredictable situation, then. And the law also provides for this possibility that, if this happens, then they will be helped and such a situation we had one, but we had no marriage, and there was no will to say, "Our former brothers, if you want to come back." You know, it's not enough just to write in the law "you have a chance to come back," then you also have to create the conditions that you have somewhere to go, if not, but who will go from one misery to another, probably no one wants it. I think that this law will be written more than for these people in fact for forms of cooperation with our foreigners. That is to say, with those who live constantly with us in connection, with which we are no longer separated by borders or even at this moment, at least we have the apparent borders, which will soon be completely abolished by 2007 and that, in fact, there will be more intensive cooperation under this law. This will depend on how this Commission will truly be made up in Article 21, who will be in it, what forms of cooperation we will work for each other and if we are talking about a euro region, what Slovenia wants and what it is supposed to become, then I think there are great opportunities open up here in this area. We will support these amendments and we will be happy to support the law, but we are aware that this law will have to be further elaborated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President! I have calculated somewhere that you will punish our colleague, Mr Jerovška, who is unfortunately not here at this time, at a time when those who think differently from him and who argue differently than he is allowed to do, when he called them connected with the fate. This, however, applies in this land to some kind of quantifier. I'm going to say myself, I don't have much trouble with this, like my colleague Gulič, because his client colleague gave me a certificate that I've been the subject of a lot of investigations into this job that I've been doing, and that's why I think it's so much more unseemly than him that it's actually turning this thing around. It is difficult to say that this is an enemy speech, as colleague Sok says here, but it is a complete inability to communicate without using harder words. What I was committed to under this article was keeping the word immigration with all the meanings it has, and nothing more. What surprises me is that the main constituents of this law change their position from hour to hour or, rather, from debate to debate. That's why I'm either confused or confused. Look what I mean. On the committee led by colleague Kramberger, they were all for certain solutions, from the coalition. These, I will say, statements relate to the coalition Members, and then from one point to another, the distinction to the DeSUS Members is to be carried out. They were all for it. Before that, everyone supported my colleague Pukšič, who proposed something else, and thank God they changed their minds. On the committee led by Mrs Dolinarev, everyone was back in favour and they drew it out. Today, everyone is once again in favour of some amendments, including what has been adopted on the Committee on Home Affairs, by all their votes. I would probably know what Mr Pelikan and his colleagues would say about this, who created these positions. What is unworthy is that you talk about these solutions everywhere else, and then you rape us from week to week with a different and at that moment a comprehensive solution. This is the problem of these substitutions of views that you are not able to argue them before us, but you are obviously, I will say, in the intimateness of your circle with them very pleased.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Puksic needs a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	I would point out only a few corrections that will explain the matter a little more to those who do not understand it. I'm glad we have after 15 years of marriage that we're in for. It is true that several amendments have taken place on the home working body, for which they were in favour, but it is true that political seriousness has also occurred very quickly and these amendments have been amended, for which we are back for. Finally, we are for the marriage, as it was mainly, as it went through the government procedure, which, of course, I am happy to be involved in. And it is true that it is so complementary that those essential elements that the Slovenes from the place and around the world have stressed, I remember, here, for this speaker, in three points, also being taken into account. This is the composition of the world for Slovenians in place and the composition of the world for Slovenians around the world. Second. This is that the office is run by a minister without a license and this has happened in Parliament, parliamentary parties have also been in public debate and on all working bodies have been in favour. Thirdly, the world is run by the Prime Minister both for Slovenians in place and for Slovenians around the world. This means all three key points that have been placed as key points are for. Of course, there was also some exercise, no exercise, and I understand fellow Members, and some who never had a wish at a time when they could, of course, create it so that they could have a little exercise today. But I already said, it's a happy day and I'm in a very good mood.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Skolcz has signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	I'll be very short this time. I thank Mr Puksic for warning that there has been a political reality somewhere. What would be useful is that this enlightened one, which has touched him and his colleagues, would present us here a little more precisely, otherwise we will rightly continue to think that it is for certain people, despite all the clownism.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Mr Školč, this was more a replica than a debate and, of course, now has the right to replicate your debate, Mr Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Although I fear, my fellow Members and colleagues, that I will be difficult to explain to someone who understands more difficult, I would still like this political enlightenment to come to so many Members in this mandate to change the constitution and the electoral law that we have heard about before, the distinguished Lord of the representative of our Slovenian compatriots from within and around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. However, I would like to point out that the debate has become too personal, it has become too one replica, so I would like to ask that we discuss open articles and the amendments tabled. I note that there are no further declarations concerning Article 1 and the present amendment, so I am closing the debate and putting into discussion Article 3a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the LDS Group, we oppose the amendment that deletes this article. We ourselves have proposed an amendment for the mother's labour body, which to some extent is similar to this article, which was adopted on the home labour body. I have already said in the beginning that we would like this law to be a little more modern, even the various Slovenian organisations have told us this, which would be a little more European. It would therefore be good to have a single article in the law, which would somehow point out that Slovenia is committed to the principles of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in Europe, to good neighbourly and good international cooperation, and not to be so romantic in the law, which, above all, draws attention to the 19th century Slovenia, to the awakening of the peoples of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. We think that these dictions, this romanticism, this return, I'd say, are too nostalgic that the law doesn't seem to be modern and so it would be good to have some kind of article in it. We will oppose the deletion of this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler, then Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	So I personally object to this Article 3a being deleted, because I think it is important that these two paragraphs remain in law. Above all, as regards the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on the Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, I am convinced that the two documents of the Council of Europe are a very important milestone in the treatment of national minorities and regional and minority languages, that these are also both documents ratified by both Italy and Austria and, of course, Croatia and Hungary. And just by saying that we respect the principles of these conventions, which, by the way, have also become a matter of our own internal law, we also express our expectation that all neighbouring countries, where the indigenous minorities of Slovenia live, will do the same. So I think it would be a great shame to delete it. And besides, they're newer documents. Thus, we also show that this is now what is happening in this legal system, both our countries and all neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. 3.a Article of this Law may be more preambled, but usually this matter is lost there and is in some sense more declaratory in nature. On the Commission, we adopted this amendment in a slightly amended version on the proposal for Slovenian Minority Coordination, according to a proposal by SLOMAK. I don't think this article can hurt this law. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, we oppose the motions to delete this Article. I think it is good that it is written that we respect the principle of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, that we respect the European Charter on the Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe and that national minorities in the European Union are an important factor in cooperation between countries. I think the second part of this article, which says: "The Republic of Slovenia supports cross-border cooperation between local and regional authorities, where the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries is an important factor." I think this text of the law can only improve. And despite the fact that the government says we must respect the laws and other rules that we have ratified and which are generally applicable both to us and to the European Union, but I think that this Article 3a can remain. I will, of course, vote against this amendment by the three coalition groups. But I'd like to draw attention to another problem. When a similar law was passed in Hungary, with a similar content, as many Hungarians live outside Hungary, their proposal for a law was addressed even by the Venice Commission and some other European institutions and even had to change it in some way. It is therefore right that we also have these two articles, paragraphs 3.a, which are of a kind of declaratory nature and clearly communicate to neighbouring countries that we do not have any pretensions, for example, on any territorial or any other requirement. In particular, I should like to point out that this proposal is based on the initiative of Slovenian minority coordination. It was particularly advocated by the representatives of our national community in Koroška, Austria, especially in the light of the problems they face with regard to the policy of the Head of State of Haider, who constantly manifests to the minority or us that we have to the territorial requirements of Koroška, which constantly prevents the implementation of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, so that it does not respect the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court and so on. Thus, I think that the peaceful souls could leave this article in marriage, because it is also a European spirit that this marriage is supposed to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you. I object to the deletion of Article 3.a. Already in the general debate on the proposal for a law, I advocated having more hearing for the entities of this law and for me the representatives of SLOMAK, who proposed the text of this article, are the subjects of this law. So I think it's impossible to land on something that the government can find one line of justification for, if that's unnecessary. I think it is right that the law highlights the international legal regulation of the situation of minorities, given that foreigners do not have a specific law and that both foreigners and locals and expatriates are dealt with in this law. However, if someone had doubts about this, if it were only on a declaration level, perhaps another article in this law could have been marked as such. What the legislator specifically wants to stress should also be written down; and, as it is said, from the point of view of the subject of this law is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 3a and put into discussion Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	I must say that we will not explicitly oppose these corrections in Article 13. However, there is something that needs to be said, as far as Article 13 is concerned and in terms of content. The Act introduces an instrument by the Minister, who will lead the Slovenians' department around the world, a minister without a licence, with an amendment adopted on the home labour body. I have to say that we think that this arrangement, although we do not oppose it, is a good initiative, and somehow it is also in harmony with what the foreigners have proposed, but it would make more sense to regulate this matter in the government law. By the way, we're gonna write this down in law. The law says that this institution, that is to say, will be elected by the Minister in the next election of the government here in the National Assembly. And we know that every government, every time the Prime Minister comes with a package of ministers and ministers, comes with their departments and comes with a government law, because every time we have a different number and different working areas of ministries. So this is kind of sand in the eyes, because the next law will be elected by the government, because every time it was so practical, and I suppose that in the future, it will be possible to go around peacefully, that is to say, for then, but if the government law changes as if we had not adopted this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 13 and put to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS Group of Members. There's no sign-in. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	So this is an essential article, I would say, also an essential comment in this law. The first thing to say is that there is no minority subjectivity here. Our proposal went in the direction of appointing a representative to the world of foreigners. This article, however, says that they will be appointed by the Prime Minister himself, in which the Council will operate. We have heard that they are not satisfied with such a proposal and take away their practical subjectivity. This will be the same as the RTV law, where all citizens have proposed their proposals, the electorates of certain electorates have been chosen. This is the same logic, and by this logic it will be possible for a well-balanced world that will bless the Prime Minister with all that will be balanced by some and the matter will go well forward. Well, we are opposed to such arrangements. Although the amendments had been made to the committee, adjustments had been made. He's talking about representative organisations of Slovenians in place that will be proposed. You can think of this as a roof organization. We know that we also have problems in Italy and Austria about the number of umbrella organisations, we have many debates, we have laymen and Catholics and so on; but I wonder what this is now representative of. If I say so in the case, the Prime Minister shall receive representatives of the foreigners, where they bless that everything is all right, then we shall find out that it is not, and at this representative meeting there are representatives of the umbrella organisations and parties of the Slovenian Community for Italy or the Single List in addition to the umbrella organisations for Austria. I wonder where the other customers are. Where are the Slovenians? Why are not representatives of the Left Democrats, the Communist Reform Party and others invited? In the country's Furlania-Julia landscape there are five Slovenians, one of the parties to the Slovenian Community, one Slovenian, not one of the parties to the Slovenian Community, is from the Left Democrats. There are two of the left Democrats in the country world. Why aren't you invited? They're not Slovenians? So, obviously abandoning the work of the Slovenian Corps, obviously, only in its own image, collect yours and do your own thing - okay. Finally, I'd like to ask my colleague Pukšič, who wrote the numbers. There are 4 representatives of Slovenians from Italy, 4 representatives of Slovenians from Austria, 2 representatives of Slovenians from Austria, 2 representatives of Slovenians from Hungary and 2 representatives of Slovenes from Croatia. Oh. K. If we wanted to make a promise, we would have taken from all one, obviously we needed some criteria according to the strength of the Slovenian community in each country. Tell me, Comrade Pukšič, on what basis did you give six seats to the Slovenians from Austria and four Slovenians from Italy? Where did you get this criteria? But the ratio is exactly, not exactly, repeatedly vice versa, we have roughly - I will not go into speculation, numbers, but four times more Slovenes around because these numbers [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Like in Austria. [[..]] Where did you get six to four in the world now? I don't understand what this mathematics is, what this proportion is, what this right you're talking about. Can't we even count any more, or do we count as Haider in Austria? We will not support this article, and we find it crucial and unacceptable in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Puksich. You don't even have to replicate because you have such a discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I don't have a purpose either. This article is one of the achievements of Slovenian organisations in substitution, which reads in the third paragraph: "Members of the Slovenian Council appoints the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, who also convenes and leads the meetings of the Council." That reference was also in the original law, but then it was to be headed by the president of the office. Around this, there was a lot of debate in the drafting of the law, and here in the office we did not attach to the representatives of the replacements, and we remained and introduced the law into the government procedure with a dictatorship such as I mentioned that the Council was convened by the Prime Minister and led by the President of the Office. Of course, I am now very pleased with such a dictatorship and I am pleased that the representatives of SLOMAK insisted on this - but why. At the last visit of SLOMAK to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has promised this, and our President, which he promises, does so, so I think this is important. This is one additional greater burden, which the Prime Minister is obviously aware of, and for that, this article, I will say, will get an additional substantial weight. As far as the fifth paragraph of the'representative organisation' is concerned, I am sure that, with such a dictatorship, everyone is globally satisfied, although no one is completely satisfied, but one compromise has been found here. The representative organisations are, of course, political parties, both cultural organisations and sports organisations and clearly such umbrella organisations. But if they connect you, it's even more, it's an upgrade to what roof organisations have already done, i.e. SLOMAK, and I think it's therefore one of the articles that added additional quality to this law. That's why we're going to support him, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, then Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I don't know, I'm surprised, too, that Comrade Terchón has been stabbed to propose members of the Slovenian Council in place of a representative organisation of the national community, and he mentioned some Italian parties that they should be members of this Council. Now I know that the representatives of the minority are elected on the lists of these parties, but I think that such a dictatorship is entirely acceptable to me because, in another case, here - what he mentioned, these Italian parties, according to him, should propose members of the Council for Slovenians in exchange, which I do not think would be right, and I also do not think it logical that in some authorities of another political party established in Rome, they will appoint their representatives. Well, let's say that Pierro Fassino is very nice, but the last time he talked about what to do with the problem of esuls and the money in the Luxembourg account, he said that both countries had to sit down again. It does not recognize that this is definitive, that the osmeal agreements are final, and you would suffer such people in some bodies here in Slovenia. I don't agree with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Very briefly. Thank you, Mr. President. Now the debate, my colleague Jerovska, attaches to the fear of Comrade Terchón. The message is clear. Political organisations that form representative organisations according to Mr Jerovsk are only the Slovenian Community, not the Slovenian component in the Leve Democrats, the Slovenian component in the Communist Reform and so on. Of course, and it's discriminatory, it's unfair, it's about choosing only one political party to represent the national community. Look, I've been working with my buddies for a long time, and I'm a minority myself, and I know what it means to be put into some representative organization. I don't know why the Internal Policy Committee didn't make an effort to accept alerts from umbrella organisations and to record only roof organisations as those who would just submit proposals. And don't spread the categories that the government will interpret in its own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchon has a replica. He's quitting. Otherwise, I would ask those who wish to apply to the replica to say it out loud if we do not respect the order of the applicants and the time is measured differently. Now it's Mr Bevk's turn, and I'm sorry if I accidentally missed your hand before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although we will support the amendment, the content of this Article can be changed in the third reading. In fact, we would expect that greater independence of the umbrella minority organisations in the design and composition of representations in the world for Slovenes in substitution and in the world, because this formulation is very broad and political organisations, both Slovenian and other, can run here. However, the problem is how the Prime Minister will decide and whether he will balance it or not, he has drawn it in one direction or another. I believe that Slovenian minority coordination would make this more balanced than each Prime Minister - I am not just talking about President Janša, or any other Prime Minister who will come from another political bloc. However, I would like to say that all the time after the war, the so-called left-wing block in Italy ensures the election of either the Slovenian representative or the Chamber or the Senate. And even now before the parliamentary elections in Italy, Senator Milos Budin will be the holder of the candidate list of Olives from Furlania-Julia Province for Parliament in Rome. It is said that this bloc provides a Member of the Roman Parliament. He should be followed by other Italian parties from another political field.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would, if you would allow me, Mr Vice-President, to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Pelikan, if he could give us in some understandable and reasoned way a basis for how this criterion came to be. In fact, if we want to introduce some equality from this point of view, that the Slovenians in this world have approximately equal representation of their representatives, why is it that, say, if we take two neighbouring countries as a whole, the Slovenians in Italy have four representatives in this world, while the Slovenians in Austria have six representatives. I think that's the essence of this dispute here and I'd ask if you could explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. So it is true that the number of Slovenians in Italy could be approximately 2 times the number of Slovenians in Austria. I'm sorry to be so rude about this. However, the Slovenians in Italy have four representatives together, and the Slovenians in Austria have six representatives. Here we came from a reality in which the Slovenian community lives in Italy and in which the Slovenian community lives in Austria. In Italy they live in the Furlania-Julia landscape, while in Austria they live in both the Koroška and the Federal Region of Styria. That is why there are four representatives from Koroška and two representatives from Styria. In particular, there was and is still a very large difference in their status between Slovenians in Koroška and Slovenians in Styria. While Slovenians in Koroška, despite all the problems they have, are recognized, the Slovenians in Styria are in fact just fighting for their recognition. And I think it's right that we here in this world for the Slovenians in place made such a division. I will also back up this by dividing this moment within the coordination of SLOMAK, when they also somehow share this division that there are two representatives from Italy, from Austria, if we add together, there are three representatives, two representatives from Koroška and one from Styria. I think I've been trying to be clear enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna write this down because there's more than one of you registered. I'll read it: mag. Kramberger, Mr Terchoon, mag. Treasuries and Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler. Did I let anyone go? I'm sorry, Mr. Scholch. Mag. Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say the following in support of this Article 19. In fact, there is a dilemma regarding the representation of Slovenians in substitution. We've heard that this marriage separates them. So, we have devoted a lot of time to this issue in the Commission, and we have also done more discussions with the coordination of SLOMAK on this issue. In fact, the desire to coordinate SLOMAK is that in paragraph 5 they should clearly be referred to as the coordination of SLOMAK. However, we then decided on a broader dictatorship in the Commission to be appointed by representative organisations. And what do we mean by that, representative organizations? This is where we think of all the organizations in place. And here is the task of the foreigners to sort of organize themselves. Of course, that's probably going to be very difficult. However, we must read this fifth paragraph together with the fourth paragraph of the same article, which states that the functioning of the Council for Slovenians in place and its composition in the work relating to members of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is said to be the part of the members of the world that come from the replacements, and they are not determined by this Rules of Procedure and are not determined by anyone else but a minority on their own. This is a real minority that will form that part, those representatives, and the rules of procedure will be regulated only by the part of the composition that is in Slovenia, i.e. on the side of the Republic of Slovenia, to understand each other, because we are all Slovenians. So for us, this is very clear to me, but, of course, there is a minority ahead of a lot of responsibility. That is to say, this article should be fully viewed. Of course, it is difficult now, I respect and appreciate the work of the coordination of SLOMAK and in the Republic of Slovenia their connection and their work undoubtedly benefit. And now, we are also in these coordinations, and this has also been invited by the representative of the Slovenian Community and the Single List from Koroška. I can also say here that we have encountered criticism because we have not invited other customers. Of course, we did not invite them because in some way they did not express interest, these two parties to the Single List and the Slovenian Community explicitly requested that they participate in the consideration of this law. So the objective of this article is, and so we understand that we are not closing the door to anyone, including those Slovenians who are in Italian parties, but of course let them organise themselves as a whole and agree on which of the four minorities in Italy will be in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Mr Pelikan, with all due respect, colleague Pukšič did not answer the number at all, because he had nothing to answer, you were so, "pulling out five veins" as to explain because there is no explanation. There is simply no explanation for this relationship. What more will my colleagues tell you about reality, who know as well as I do, so you will see that, here I hope to say, intentionally or without any idea, but I am not telling you, Mr Pelikan, because you inherited what is real in Italy and Austria, and that is under criticism what you have done with these numbers, and I believe that you know at least so much mathematics. As regards Mr Jerovska's debate. Mr Jerovšek, see, the Slovenians in Italy have nevertheless received under the left-centre coalition a roof law, insofar as the right-centre coalition rules, this law is not respected, even the right-wing components of the Slovenians in Italy call for the election of a left-centre coalition that respects this right. In the country parliament or the world, a law is adopted where Slovenians are more attracted to cooperation, where there is a left-centre coalition, than here in Slovenia, where the right-centre coalition rules. Therefore, I suggest you set up a mirror or, if you are already in that right international, that you talk to your colleagues about stopping this from running over our cousins, which is what they're after, and give Rupel, Mr Rupel, with whom we have had a lot of trouble, to say once more that he should vote for the bilingual tables and for the realisation of the constitutional decision in Koroška, where the right-wings rule, if we can say so, as in Austria and where you are together in internationalism. By setting this mirror, the government may avoid sharper words based on the bill of bilingual tables because the older decisions themselves are significantly older than those deleted, to which not only the tables have been taken, but not all of them are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Master's degree in Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you. I am sure that the Secretary of State knows that there is a significant difference between the situation of the Slovenians, the Slovenians and the Slovenians in the Rezija, and therefore the political organisation of a group cannot be an excuse for justifying the inappropriate participation of one and another, but I am grateful that you do not mention the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Of course, I expected such an answer. I also know how it is with the Styrian Slovenians in Austria and so on, but I would like to emphasise something, it is unacceptable that a mistake is already being introduced in the law itself, which can ultimately give one national minority in the neighbouring country, our national minority in the neighbouring country, a sense of discrimination, neglect and so on. Therefore, if we wanted to take this into account, we could put this number in the following ratio: 6 representatives from Italy, 6 representatives from Austria, 4 representatives from Koroška, 2 representatives from Styria and so on. These arguments here were not appropriate and I stress, we are incorporating a mistake in the law, a systemic error that justifiably gives our minority in Italy a sense of some neglect. Although I am aware that it is a world, a body that has only a consultative function, but it is a very delicate thing. I would therefore suggest that we just consider different criteria and different numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Please, please, Mr. Bajc, a little peace. Mr. Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Of course, I think that this article really needs to be reconsidered, including the arguments we have heard. Perhaps more should be said, such as colleagues, about this situation of Slovenians in Italy. The difference, as has already been said, between Goriška and Tržaška on one side and the other two units, Vidma and Pordenon. Nobody said anything about Pordenon here, black in Pordenon probably lives by about the same number of Slovenians as in Styria. Inside the Videm landscapes are the great differences again between Venice and the other closed valleys that have already been discussed. And if you wanted to make the difference that you make between Styria and Koroška, you could certainly do it within Italy. Not to mention that a large number of people live in Vienna, Austria is significantly larger than in Styria, we speak Slovenians, and, say, Milan, but this is already another kind of problem. Therefore, this would suggest having an open mind to think about Slovenians in neighbouring countries and to treat them in some way in the same way. The key point is not whether they propose customers or umbrella organisations, because the Slovenian Community is and the Single List are, one is an Austrian or Korean party, the other is an Italian party, like all others. They have specific programs, and unfortunately they don't have enough voters. From this point of view, it would suggest that organisations dealing primarily with the issues of Slovenia should be proposed to this world, but not with these partial political issues, which are also in some parts of the Slovenian population, so that there will be no misunderstandings in this respect. But what's important is who calls them. Are they appointed by the Prime Minister or can they name them themselves? And we don't understand each other here. If we were to understand that these organisations could themselves tell the queens who are their representatives, who will defend their and our common interests, it would be one thing. However, if they can be chosen by the Prime Minister with such or other criteria, it is unnecessary to politicise that body. And these questions, who is invited somewhere, in such a case there would be absolutely no and here is the core of the dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you. And Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Of course, it's not what some people here say today. All representatives, from any political party elected to the country parliament and who expressed their wish, together with SLOMAK, to hold a meeting in the Slovenian Parliament, we invited them in the previous term when I led this commission. From that moment forward, I think there has been some greater, stronger cooperation, the integration of our Slovenians in substitution; this time I am referring to our Slovenian in Italy. And there was no problem of cooperation. And I am sure that they will be able to agree and propose their candidates, those who will then represent them representatively in the world. But there is no point in talking about numbers, because even when we were preparing this law, we really discussed this a lot, and even in SLOMAK there was no opposition. So things are, you know, mostly coordinated. This law has been there since 2003, 2004, 20005, 2006, for a very long time. He was being watched, even here in Parliament, he had already gone through one debate. We also added a lot of what was added. And today we have a very good marriage. There are some shortcomings, I agree. For example, in article 23, something should be changed and so on, as it was in the original, not as it is now. But, well, we can't do everything. Now we're going to have a marriage, and we're going to be able to build it up. Until now, we had no marriage and had nothing to build up. So I'm still very happy and proud that we have this today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. And Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Look, when I think about what a good and right solution is, it seems to me that, on a proposal from representative organisations, it is proper for the Prime Minister to appoint members of this Council. Indeed, we must be aware that in the past these Slovenian organisations have been quite polarised and divided and that, in my opinion, if we went in to determine for ourselves, this would rekindle additional disputes. Perhaps such a solution to such an organ, which also has great symbolic weight, is the most appropriate and I think it will bear good fruit. And that also a number of representations, proportionality was well studied and well thought out. I would also answer when they try to teach me about the benevolence of various political options in neighbouring Italy to Slovenia, to foreigners. I must say that I regret that both political groups or all of them are actually stalling when it comes to key issues for the Slovenians. In Italy, there were so many influences of various political parties, coalition governments and all that 30 years ago they could have a law on the protection of Slovenians if there was political will. And once again, it's not, not on the left, not on the right, not today. I fear that the situation with regard to the implementation of this law would not be significantly better even if it were a different political gender, although some exceptions are on both sides. Of course, when you are giving examples of only a left-wing option, I must tell you that former Foreign Minister Demichelis is still representing the thesis today that it was that they allowed Slovenia to make a mistake, that it was a huge mistake. So, with these thesis, please don't come and don't talk, even set up your own mirror and when you talk about the excessive softness of Minister Rupl, I don't know if I can understand that he's become too soft inside your client, in Brussels he's become too soft, maybe it's actually the influence of our client and your policy, but I think he's getting on edge and on determination so that he'll certainly do his part of the task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Master Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I have listened to this debate, in particular, to my colleagues' thinking on Article 6 point 19 concerning the representation of Slovenes and Slovenians in this world. I think there is no problem, as we can make an amendment in the third reading and propose that there are six representatives from the Republic of Italy. What happens if there's two more? But we, or this proposal, are following some kind of analogy of how they are represented now in SLOMAK - two from Italy, two from Koroška and one from Austria's Styria. So if there are two more in this world from Italy, there will be nothing wrong. So, in the third reading, you can make an amendment, and I'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate by Article 19 and put to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS MPs. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u156	Very briefly. Here's the number game again. In this world for Slovenians around the world, we have proposed two representatives of Slovenians from Australia. This has been taken into account in some way, although our amendment has not been voted out, although on the other hand the number of Slovenians in the world has increased from both Europe and North America. So now I'm asking, what were these criteria for what happened?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 21 and put to the debate Article 71, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS MPs. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 76 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mr. Run, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The content of Article 76 was indeed created at a time when they were adopted in the home working body, the Internal Policy Committee, the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which assumed that the content of the law would be different. However, I believe that the proposed amendment is still correct and useful. This is because, in our opinion, it would be understandable and correct that when deciding on the status of a repatriated person, it will be said that the State authority that decides on this will be the Slovenian Government in place and around the world, who will determine what rights within the scope of the law are also granted to those persons who have the right to repatriation. And these people, you know, are defined not only in chapter three of the law, but also in articles 66 and 67, and the answer that the government has given us here is, I would say, incomprehensible. She wasn't rude, so she said no. She just said it could be determined later. That's what we think. Self-determination is a status recognition, but the decision, this and its additions must also tell us what rights are to be acquired. Someone has to decide on this and I think it is bad that the law does not have this content and is the best opportunity to say by supplementing Article 76 that the decision, when the status is granted and later by supplementing the decision, will give rise to a decision that constitutes a basis for substantive justice. But they can be different, as you said. I therefore propose that the Government reconsider and that we support this proposal, because it should be clear when, on what basis, these rights are granted. This will have to be done by the state, probably with a decision, but not without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Representative of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to give an additional explanation for this explanation. So here the other competent ministries will be the ones to decide what support or assistance the individual repatriated person will be able to enjoy in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 76 and put to discussion Article 78 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u162	There should be some explanation here. We've talked a lot about this line now. We also add to these Slovenian-Roman Catholic missions the potential of other churches. I don't know how organized they are, and if this isn't just some beauty repair. What is being asked is whether a Roman Catholic church can be included in the law where certain entitlements are referred to as one of the members. It does not necessarily have an insight into everyone who, I will simplify, speaks Slovenian, but does, I will say in that part of the population that is pious. Potential abuse may occur from this heading. Someone who is in distress, who has given up, for example, to this church society, will be able to be sanctioned in the process of obtaining these benefits. Therefore, I think it is necessary to think about these things and not to tempt the Roman Catholic Church to judge these things. I don't even know if anyone's talked to them or if that's in line with that agreement that regulates relations between the state and the church. From this point of view, I shall say that this solution is indeed necessary for further clarification by the proposers. We got this in this article on a new one, there is no explanation of the right ones, but there can be a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Of course, when we wrote this article and had it prepared, we thought about who else could be with the Roman Catholic missions of another organization, religious organizations, religious communities that work, connecting Slovenes in place and around the world. In fact, we did not reach any, and that is why the original law that went through the government was written down only, that is, Slovenian Roman Catholic missions. These are, of course, due to the preservation of Slovenia, Slovenian language and Slovenian culture. If it weren't for them, in the tough iron times, the clergy would be extinct and thank God we had them. The government, or now, with the amendment that has been added, and since it is added, and the missions of other religious communities, has reason for this breadth. I do not oppose this amendment alone, but I agree that it does not have any special weight, but it is the breadth that enters into the law and cannot harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, we have not yet received an explanation as to whether it is permissible for individuals to be entitled to repatriation to be decided by the Roman Catholic Church. That was the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot force a government representative to take the floor. You want a word anyway? Yes, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. So it is true that this law names Slovenian Catholic missions, which have historically taken care of Slovenian expatriates and still play a very important role among Slovenian expatriates abroad. It is clear that the State, when deciding on a status, will take into account in the broadest possible form certain specific situations of that particular applicant in such a way that it will certainly not be, must not come to any separation because of whether someone is religious or not involved in the operation of Catholic missions. So these missions are mentioned here in particular because, in the past and even today, they have done a great deal for Slovenian expatriates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In fact, it seems strange to me that Comrade Školč is turning to others in this House for an explanation of this dictatorship, because his neighbour in the seat has recently been announcing himself as the largest expert on religious communities and the separation of the church from the state, so that my colleague Gulič could probably ask how this could interfere with the legislation of other countries in relation to separation and this, but I firmly believe that I understand why these missions of religious communities are also being asked about. Last year I was in New York, where there was also a meeting with Slovenians living in New York, and we were also in that famous church in Manhattan, and I remember exactly that one of the participants told me that he was an agnostic, but that he was involved in this way, of course, and that it was a core of gathering too, and I think that in fact, there is a lot of things that are not primarily whether he was a theist, atheist or agnostic, but that they are the cores of gathering and that they were. But the fact is, the immigrant Slovenians also joined in church or around these religious communities and played a large, large role. And I'm not an acquaintance, too, but when there was a question whether there was another, if it wasn't just a beautiful character, but I think that some Prekmurec, the evangelicals also had a religious community somewhere in America, or in Canada, South America, to a lesser extent, as I know, not for Slovenian migration, but I know, for example, because there was an engineer in the previous service who was an engineer who was a Russian nationality and belonged to the Union Church, that they had this, say, organized into [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , uniatical, which is still within the Roman Catholic, but also very clearly organized after that. So that's a good thing to keep it that way, such a diction in marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 78. I am putting to the debate Article 82 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 88, as well as the last article and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, it is now clear that this will be done before 2 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their cooperation. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second defence of the bill on the protection of documents and archiving. The total time for discussion is 3 hours and 15 minutes. I have not yet seen government representatives, nor have I seen the president of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, so I am interrupting in 10 minutes. We'll pick her up at 3:35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u172	Dear colleagues and colleagues. There are no government representatives yet, but of course we have the opportunity to give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Master Grimes, if you agree, given that time is gold? Yeah, mag. Grims, then I'll give you my word. I hope a few other colleagues and colleagues will join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u173	Well, thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. At its 10th regular meeting on 15 February 2006, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. With regard to the very text of the law of substantial additions, we have adopted a series of additions on the proposal of the legislative and legal service and also on the proposal of the opposition, particularly the SD, with which we have edited the text and aligned the concepts with the legal concepts used in other regulations of our country. The Committee thus drew up a text for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. According to our assessment, the law's proposal is appropriate, a good basis for addressing and regulating this area, in a modern way also regulates the forms of electronic archiving, their preservation by recording, and we therefore propose to the respected assembly that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In the meantime, we have also been joined by representatives of the government and I ask the Minister, Dr Simoniti, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u175	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival material and archives was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its last meeting in 2005 as a proposal and sent to the National Assembly. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport in the National Assembly on 15 January 2006, and adopted a number of amendments included in the legislative proposal at that meeting. He has thus set out the text of the amended draft law, which is before you today at second reading. The current law provides a good legal basis for the protection of archival material as a cultural monument and does not regulate the protection of electronic documentary and archival material, which has become dominant and extremely important due to technological development and the information society. The draft law thus regulates the manner, organisation, infrastructure and implementation of the storage of documentary material in physical and electronic form, including the legal effects of such storage. It provides for the protection of public and private archive material as a cultural monument, regardless of the type, form or medium. It regulates the conditions for its accessibility and use, regulates the tasks and organisation of the public archiving service in the Republic of Slovenia and regulates the supervision of the implementation of the law. The law will substantially upgrade the current material protection regime with comprehensive and effective protection of electronic documentary and electronic archival material and bring into existing legal arrangements for the protection of archival material some changes and additions concerning criteria and procedures for the evaluation and selection of public archival material, the protection of film archives, archival information systems and access to archival material in public archives. Except in the field of standardised coverage and the storage or archiving of electronic material in digital form, the proposed solutions do not significantly affect the concept of the protection of documentary and archival material or in principle of the current law. Thus, following the adoption of the law, the fundamental principles of technological development and the development of archiving will remain somewhat complemented by the principles laid down in the law in force and have been established in the archives of us and abroad for decades, in particular in the European Union countries. The bill is therefore based on the following principles: the principle of maintaining material or the usefulness of its content, on the principle of sustainability, integrity, accessibility of material and on the principle of the protection of archival material as a cultural monument. With regard to the protection of documentary and archival material, it should be pointed out that the definitions of documentary material and archival material, as applied by law and the archival professions, are of paramount importance to the proper understanding of the individual provisions of the law. According to the definition of archival material, all procedures for the protection of archival material as a cultural monument have been carried out in the draft law, irrespective of the type or medium, such as the process of valorising documentary material, the selection of archival material, the delivery of the relevant archive, the professional processing of material in the archive, the archival information system, the inspection system, and, in particular, the provision of access and use of archival material for research, study and cultural purposes, for the purposes of official procedures and various business and personal purposes. The new bill complements the system of protection of film archival material, which requires specific regulation due to its specific form, as well as the specific method of production and property relations. With regard to access to archival material, the draft law follows known standards and, in this regard, archival material was created prior to the establishment of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 17 May 1990 relating to the former socio-political organizations, internal affairs bodies, judicial authorities and security intelligence services, which are accessible without restriction, except for archival material containing sensitive personal data obtained by violating human rights and fundamental freedoms and relating to persons not bearing public functions. I would also like to point out that, with regard to the protection of electronic documentary and archival materials, it is appropriate to stress that the new proposal will make the Republic of Slovenia [[End warning sign]] in line with the recommendations - only a sentence if please - the European Commission can adapt the protection of documentary and archival materials to new technologies and operating methods in the information society. The proposed law is European comparable, follows European archiving standards and represents an effective and necessary upgrade of the existing system. I therefore propose to the High Council that the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you, too. I made an exception because there were quite a few sentences after the time was exceeded. We continue with the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Marinič to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival material and the archives put into the legislative process by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. An essential reason and motive for a new bill on archives is the upgrading of the existing law on archives. The need for a new law has led to the development of information technology, which has brought a number of innovations in the functioning of the state administration and the wider public administration. The development of modern technologies changes the way we work and communicate. Work with electronic databases and documents in electronic form undermines traditional office business, e-mail replaces the classic transmission of paper documents, paper forms and applications replace electronic applications, as already mentioned, the content changes are linked to the fact that large amounts of document material appear in Slovenia and other countries in electronic or digital form. The following reasons have raised new dilemmas, questions about the arrangements for archival material protection and storage. The draft law seeks to improve the situation in the field of the protection of archiving material through this legal material and at the same time to resolve this area in order to protect documentary material by regulating, in particular, the way of protection, organisation and infrastructure and the implementation of the preservation of various types of materials, the protection of public and private materials, cultural monuments, the conditions for the accessibility and use of this material, the task and organisation of the public archiving service and the supervision of the implementation of the law. The bill is based on the principle that archival and documentary material on classical data carriers should ensure the preservation of that material, its sustainability, accessibility, integrity and professional work for the application of certain professional standards. The next novelty of the bill is covered in the title itself. This is the responsibility of the archival service, which is also extended to the protection of documentary material. The next news is also important. This is about access to data stored by public archives, it's about sensitive data. The latest amendment or new developments relating to sensitive data are, on the one hand, aimed at ensuring public access to these data and, on the other hand, at protecting them with particularly sensitive data from victims who have been subjected to human rights violations against unauthorised interference. The new law also tries to rationalise the functioning of the public administration, tries to increase information between archives, while at the same time trying to follow regionalisation. As already said in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the draft law on the basis of the claims mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirca will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u179	Good-bye. The new Archives and Archives Protection Act is a 95% old law. That 5% lift is not that important. In particular, it regulates what brings time, new technologies and electronic material protection in digital form, how to store, how to select, how to copy, whom to trust, where to store and so on. It is less known that the law also provided for a thorough reorganisation of the public archiving service, envisaged the abolition of regional archives and the establishment of one state authority with territorially dispersed organisational units, to which all coalition parties or one coalition party did not agree in such a way that this part fell completely. Following these coordinations, the proposaler decided not to amend and supplement the existing one, but to slightly refresh the old law with so much greater emphasis on digitisation of the archive material. It's not the wisest thing to do, but that's the way it is. Among the legal adjustments that life or practice has brought is the commitment that intermediates, this is what the film material for archival storage must be made and financed by the film fund, because at this point, we remember, there have been occasional complications in the past, some producers have not submitted the original record to the archive, this solution is logical and logical if the film fund gets the money for these costs too. However, let me focus on the question of digitisation, which is, as it is said, the main legal matter. Even though it is not so important here, I must mention the feeling that this law was being prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration rather than by the Ministry of Culture. All interpretations in the law and also comparisons with other EU countries, almost all of those objectives of the law go in the direction of understanding the archival material that is produced, as is the material that originates in the state or local administration. The law deals with state documents, ministries, municipal administrations and so on. On this point, we ask again why a whole new law is needed if it has allowed good and effective work so far, and we also read in explanation. But if I make the most of it. The question of how Slovenians will store digital archive and documentary material in the future; how who, under what conditions and how the country will store copies or originals on electronic media; how will we provide a secure system and efficient, rational and quality infrastructure. The law, whether it's the Virant or the Simonitis, doesn't matter, says that those who will be entrusted by the state with this task, some concessionaires, if I banalise. These will be accredited, awarded and provided with conditions. This is a terribly difficult, expensive, and highly protected work. This cannot be done by anyone, especially anyone, who could escape some information uncontrollably. And what the proponents say: that's going to cost us 26 million tolars. Excuse me?Oh, my God! 26 million?Oh, my God! While the Dutch spent 2 million euros a year to store digital material, that is, 240,000 million SITs! What can we conclude from this information? That it is a paper that is not aware of real life and that it is a business that may already be pre-arranged and appears to be not necessarily with public but private subscribers. I was talking about the puzzles on the committee responsible. More or less, colleagues dozed off on these issues. Our amendments were rejected after the inertia. There have been a lot of them, the government has been quieter, not well reasoned, I can only say that we have warned about what it brings tomorrow when it comes to doing it, doing it and doing it. Today it's not hard to rule out another marriage. We'll just support it, try to implement some more corrections, and at the same time we'll be calm to tell you what needed to be said. The fact that there was no listening will be seen by the archives and the archives will know tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. The cost of presenting the SD position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. This is one of those laws, which is part of the smaller half of the laws adopted in this National Assembly following a regular procedure. That is why, I suppose, there is sufficient time for the law and for possible corrections, especially because we have also pointed out some shortcomings and language errors in the formulations of individual articles; some shortcomings have also been pointed out by the legislative and legal service. It is expected that the application of this law will take place without great difficulty as the law grows from the regulation of archival material protection and the functioning of the public archiving service. The solutions in the current Law on Archives and Archives have proved to be successful and effective, according to the various types of archive material, the applicant argues. Thus, the law in force provides a good legal basis for the protection of archival material as a cultural monument. The increasing volume of electronic commerce and thus the increasing number of electronic materials imposes legal arrangements for the feeding of this material as well. In 2000, the adoption of the Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Regulation dealt mainly with most of the issues related to electronic commerce, while the issue of the entire documentary material in digital form, in public and private form, remained open, i.e. the storage of this material in the public and private sphere. On the issue of the system of storage of documentary and archival materials, the issue of efficient rational and quality infrastructure also opens up in digital form. Here we see in the Group of Social Democrats that, in particular, infrastructure is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration while the costs of digitisation or storage of this material are transferred to the Ministry of Culture. The proposer shall ensure that, even after the adoption of the proposed law, the fundamental principles tested in domestic and foreign practice remain in force and, of course, adapted to technological developments. In particular, I stress that there is no single system for storing archival material in Europe and that it is always necessary to take account of the adjustment to the national situation. About the financial consequences, I have said little about their scope, but what bothers most is that the costs will be met mainly by the Ministry of Culture, whether they are actually planned or not. While the Ministry of Public Administration will provide the necessary additional standard information, communication equipment, it says that most of the work is related to the operation of the public administration, but it is also true and would probably suggest considering a different cost sharing between the ministries. But what I find particularly interesting is what is stated in the chapter on other consequences. It says that the law will allow for electronic storage of documentary material. That is true, but it is also recorded among the goals and principles of this law, because it is the core of this law. It is hard to imagine how this will increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. And if anything, it would be good to hear something about these particular consequences. However, with regard to the acceleration of the electronic functioning of public administrations, the modernisation of the public administration in the programme is at least two mandates and two different governments, I would say. Since we have also received assurances in the interest of the professional public in the law by removing the reorganisation of waste, we will, as a matter of fact, support the law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, with his co-worker, MEPs and Members of Parliament. We have a proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. The law provides for the protection of documentary and archival material in physical and electronic form. It defines archiving material as original and reproduced documentary material which has been received or originated in the work of legal, natural persons and has a lasting significance for science and culture and is defined as a cultural monument under this law. The archive material shall be selected from documentary material on the basis of the proposed law and by the rules of the competent archive. In particular, the proposed law differs from the current legislation on the protection and archiving of electronic materials, how to store, capture and arrange documentary material in digital form and thereby ensure its protection is governed by the proposed law. When electronic materials flood, as well as rapidly developing such technologies, it is essential to ensure that they are stored and maintained in their original or equivalent message value. The storage system must be supported by adequate and safe infrastructure for which experts are responsible. It is also important to choose the carriers on which the data will be stored, so that the documents will also be available within decades. The purpose of storing and protecting material is to make it accessible to users in the future, under certain conditions and purposes. The use and access to archival material for access to public information is also further regulated. The proposed law increases the availability and use of archival material, which has so far been inaccessible, such as material relating to social political organisations and intelligence services, which originated from the end of World War II until 1990. If, until now, access to data for people who lost their lives during and after World War II was a practical taboo, the law now allows the use of this data for scientific, research and historical purposes. The self-organization of archives remains unchanged. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law. It prescribes the storage and capture of documentary and archival material in certain forms, in order to remain preserved for the purposes of today's time and subsequent generations. Certainly, agricultural archives should not be repeated today and today's technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you so much for the presentation. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, MEP Jakob Presečnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group actively participated in discussions on the law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. Based on our efforts, articles were removed from the law, which would unnecessarily centralize Slovenian regional archives in Ptuj, Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana, Koper and Nova Gorica to some units of the Republic of Slovenia Archives. We had our constructive comments at the stage of the consideration of the law, but we understand, of course, that all solutions also need to be inter-resorted and that it needs to be regulated in accordance with other laws and, lastly, also with the Constitution. We believe that the archiving service and the archiving policy could be better regulated so that the archival material of social political organisations can be opened up in full and in some other ways. The law is a step forward in regulating the country in such an important area. Important for keeping documents of lasting value, important for many generations that will come after us and important for the material that our ancestors have left us and that can also enlighten us on past events and activities, all together on the basis of new technological knowledge. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you for the introduction. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival material and archives was clearly needed. This is evident from the objectives, principles and main solutions of the law. If we analyze very much on the macro level, we see that the first shift is to change electronics, digitisation that has brought about the requirements for change. A lot of data is available on media requiring their procedures, their operation and so on. Well, the second question that is being raised in the Slovenian National Party is the merger from the existing archival material law to the documentary archive, where it is good that some things belong in documentary archival material, but the question is whether it is necessary for such things to belong there, I can say that too much will be accumulated and that is precisely why something important has been lost or vice versa. The aim of the law is to fully regulate the protection of documentary material, in particular archival material. And the important question that is being raised, as we have already heard, is that according to the new electronic media, it is necessary to arrange for the archiving and storage of documentary material in electronic form, in a secure and orderly manner, and in fact the question of who is capable. While it is stated in the law that it is necessary to provide the relevant providers for the implementation of the archive, but who will, it would be very good to know a little more broadly and more precisely. Moreover, it is true that the proposaler said and showed that the financial consequences of the law would be, but I do not believe, as perhaps not yet, that only in the picture will they be projected and written at a height, if they are at that height, it is very good for the State of the Republic of Slovenia, 26 million, but it will not. Well, in the Slovenian National Party we have tabled two amendments, with which we have also tried to cut a little bit into the content or see whether the content is also an integral part of this change to a slightly greater extent, but good. It was clear that we needed to fix what had come our way. The rest of it isn't. So it means, like, 5 to 10% of all the new stuff. It bothers us, however, that the opinion of the legislative and legal service in Article 105 has not been taken into account. If, or if we have already prepared a proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials at the level of mainly new media, the storage of data coming from these new media, etc., I will say in a formal way, why, in just one segment, it has reached into the content, even if it is, nothing bad. It is true that he has intervened, but I do not know why the opinion of the legal and legislative service has not been taken into account, which points out that it is necessary to verify very carefully the provision of Article 105, which states that the names and other personal data of persons who have been deprived of their lives during the period 39 to 53 years of the previous century may be published, namely that the said information should be checked in relation to the resolution of Article 17 of the Personal Data Protection Act. I do not know why this has not been taken into account, but, above all, why there has been no response to the opinion of the legislative and legal service for the second paragraph of this Article, the legislative and legal service asks how the personal data I have spoken about should be published for scientific, research and historical purposes. Well, if they're just going to be for these purposes, then it would be very easy to answer. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group, Vice-President of mag. Your Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u189	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Office, Members-in-Office and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will support the government's proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. Increasing information society and its associated technological development are sufficient reasons to complement the existing law. Only this is replaced in the proposed law by a new regulation that follows the European Directive on the one hand and regulates, on the other hand, the uniform status of State archives, both the financing of archives, the names of staff, the rationalisation of the implementation of the archiving service. This proposal is led by certainly better regulation of electronic protection, documentary and archival materials and archives at all. The proposal thus covers the full protection of documentary and archival material in physical and digital form for the public and private sectors. In our Group of Members, we are aware of the spatial dimensions, the preservation of these documents, and therefore we also need to provide the entire infrastructure for the storage of archive and documentary material. In the Group of Members, we agree with the conclusion on security and accessibility that the most secure and credible material to which no one has access is available, but in our view today is meaningless and illogical. We are certainly trying to implement a modern approach, a so-called conversion approach. This means that we will be able to easily read the electronic documents written in different environments on newer technologies. So it's an important opposite, ongoing conversion of records. And it is with archival converters that we point out that there will be an increase in the number of archive employees due to new tasks that we do not yet have sufficient staff. At the same time, we note the complexity and complexity of a number of factors that may affect the safety of stored material. Therefore, we need to be even more careful when writing electronic documents, as they can be uncontrolledly destroyed and, therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the controlled continuous transmission to newer ones is ensured and that the records are properly transformed. Finally, there is a need for confidence in all of this, both in the documentation, the institutions in which the documentation was established, and in the competent archiving institution in charge of long-term or long-term feeding. In our view, there will be a need to ensure precise conditions for handling electronic documents. In our parliamentary group, we are pleased that all our comments on the preservation of the network of provincial archives have been taken into account. At the same time, we have also warned that we do not agree with the centralisation of archives. At the same time, we stress the need to harmonise the concept of archives, namely, to ensure the standardisation of the archiving system, to act in terms of defining a uniform policy of governance, uniting criteria, and implementing a single doctrine. We estimate that the new forms of archival material have twisted or led to a shift from the traditional passive to the modern active, professional archiving relationship. Members of our parliamentary group will therefore support the proposed law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 1.3.2006 and 2.3.2006 respectively. We have three amendments before us, namely paragraphs 1, 53 and 73. We'll have a separate debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you. I must warn you that a few of the solutions that we have offered to the committee, and I say that he has given them a snooty rejection, would benefit this law. Let me just mention that we wanted to correct the definition of archival material, and in part this amendment still touches on this option, which has remained open, one of the few. We also discussed the possibility that the State would conclude an agreement on the protection of the archive with other religious communities, not only the Roman Catholic Church. We wanted to define a way, a more precise way of delivering materials, accessibility, and also to specify that the services of storing documentary material were provided by the State. The amendment you have before you is in a very simple and banal explanation as follows. The way the government has prepared it is the solution that all state documents or papers generated in the work of the government become cultural monuments all of a sudden. I'm sorry, but, Mr Kangler, you've already done this in previous coalition coordination, and now you can let us tell what we wanted to do and we're not even possible to do it now that we have a word. In short, this law deals mainly with, as I have already said in the presentation, the papers produced at the work of the state administration, in public services, ministries, municipal administrations, local communities, so I said that this is actually Virant's law. And under this law, if we didn't follow our amendment, all these papers would just once become cultural monuments, cultural monuments that have a certain value in science and culture. By this definition, which you have in law, the archives' doors will be wide open to the authorities of the state administration, which will necessarily store such materials, which in large or even most cases have no lasting importance for science and culture, transferred to the archival public service. Thus, for example, decisions in the administrative procedure, subsidy lists, arms lists, certificates, work-age certificates and similar social security papers, etc., will become a single cultural monument. Of course, individual copies of such material have so far been collected but sampled. Mr Minister, you're a historian and you've probably served these entrances to the historical archives on several occasions, by the way, Mrs. Uhanova, will be available right now and this law will not open up any more accessibility than it would have been possible in recent decades. In short. These have now been collected, collected, and now, as I say, you bring additional work to the archives by transferring the documents of the state administration to the archives. Of course, there's something else I'd like to say, so I won't talk to you later. The claims, and even at this point, when we are talking about expanding the importance of what a cultural monument is, or a document that has an archival value at the level of a cultural monument and scientific value, the claim that there will be no financial consequences in this case and that the adoption of this law will make no sense. Because it comes from the assumption that the public services already have the technology to transfer the material to electronic media, of course, according to those standards set by the archive or the state, which is the only correct one, but the question whether they really have the technology and whether it is rationally open, because small establishments, small civil organisations are probably not equipped with scanners, computers or such infrastructure that will, of course, meet the ever-new standards brought about by the development of technology. I'm sure it's not true, and maybe the state has the infrastructure, maybe the contracting authority you're thinking is going to do it, which is what you have in mind, which we've never heard of. But technology, as I said, needs to be renewed, serviced and equipped with the right people, who also manage it. So, if there will be no financial implications for the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, because it will only receive this, and also for the regional archives, because only you will receive already processed and digitised materials, then the financial consequences will be normal, logical for the broadcaster. But the law says that there will be no financial burden for either of us and not for the other. What is it now? What does that mean? As I said earlier at the consultation on technical and substantive archiving problems, at a consultation held last year in Radenci, experts from the Netherlands said that the storage of digital material costs 2 million euros a year. This is said to be the cost of equipment, premises and personnel. The government is now telling us what some of the costs of the external contractor envisaged by the law will be. He says, even more, with other consequences that this law will increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. But what kind of economy, if it's public service. Will someone do this? Or someone will be on the market, but who's gonna pay for it if there's no money to be paid here. In short, here's a Kafkayan story, of course we didn't get the answer to that question because it's obviously not loud. But if I go back to the amendment that wants to prove that we can't just align all the archival materials and papers that come from the work of the state administration in a broader sense of understanding of this work, of course, it's questionable. The law, as I have said, deals with state documents and its aim is to transfer responsibility for the protection of all masses, all the mass of documentary material generated by the work of the state administration and so far lacked the status of archival material to the site of archives. Of course, these goals have several goals. One is that in the notes, the state administration, as well as other institutions, which are not in a position to take care of the protection of documentary material, which is of lasting importance and this material, which, as I have said, had to be kept by the creator so far, whether it was a ministry or a public institution or an administrative unit, will become a monument, as proposed by law, will be given cultural status and will be exposed and given to archives. But this is where another problem arises. There's practically no room in the depots today. As the first units of the historical archive of Ljubljana, in the units of the historical archive of Ljubljana for the Ljubljana and Ljubljana region, even though we know that we have received new premises, that there is no more room in the historical archive of Ptuj and other archives are available storage facilities in the classical form at the end. And of course, we are now wondering, but by the way, not to mention the landscape archive in Maribor, which just a few months ago received a warrant to search for replacement spaces, because it has to empty business premises and depots as soon as possible because they have returned to the Roman-Catholic Church. In short, there is a major problem in feeding, in defining archival material and in decommissioning to electronic media. With the amendment, we want to achieve that the definition of what is archival material for every paper that is produced in the state administration and broadcasts it and thus burdens the archives that are primarily to care for those materials, nations that have the status of a scientific and cultural monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you, Ambassador Shirtz. The following among the applicants is Member Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Maintaining a network of provincial archives, contrary to certain versions of the law, that these should be merely organisational units, is, in my opinion, a good solution. Now to the amendment to Article 2, where the archive material is defined. There are at least three definitions of this material in the section. The amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia is one of these options. According to the first definition, by means of a solution proposed by the Government, archival material is a documentary material that has a permanent significance for science and culture or a lasting importance for legal certainty, in accordance with the professional instructions of the competent archives, is a definition which extends the material to documentary material, which has a lasting meaning for the legal security of persons, it is said that this is a very broad definition. And by this definition, some say that it will not change, that there will be no consequences, that the already existing situation will become legal. Even now, such documents as denationalisation, victims of war violence, war damage, and so on are kept in the archives. According to others, this is a definition which, contrary to what the Government has said in its explanation of the law, which says that practically this law will have no significant financial implications, but this extension of the definition entails significantly more financial consequences than the real government, which has written in its explanation of the law, that the state budget will suffer only 26 million tolars as a result of the adoption of this law. This, however, is significantly less than some say in the profession, which otherwise advocates this enlargement. Well, the third current, so to speak, in the archival section, says that it is important to be very careful in this definition. That is why the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia deletes the text "sustainable importance for the legal security of persons". This enlargement could also have negative consequences if, for example, it would not be possible to provide legal certainty to anyone if he did not find in the archive the document he was looking for, which he would need in some procedure. This then raises the question of criteria, to whom or in which cases legal certainty will be provided and in which cases this will not be necessary. In the view of this definition, it will also increase the pressure of the creators, so public administrations on archives, to take over and store all the permanent documentation that is now as documentary documentation with a permanent deadline must keep themselves. This amendment was created at the initiative of this third look in the section on the definition of archival material. However, I would also say in this amendment that the financial consequences of this law are greatly underestimated. It's only 26 million tolars. After this broad definition of archival material, much more money would be needed to realize this law. Then there's the new content that talks about the e-archive, about the electronic archive. And even for the introduction of the electronic archive, the E-Archive, we'd need a lot more money. According to some experiences, such as the Danish archives, we would need ten times more money per year to establish the E-Archive than is foreseen by the financial consequences of this law. So not 26 million tolars, but more than 200 million tolars a year. Since there will be a need to install additional personnel in the archives, additional training will be required in the existing staff in the archives, it will be necessary to collect hardware, software, then maintain all this equipment. So I think, and I would like to say this with this amendment, that the financial consequence of this law is greatly underestimated and that if we want to implement this law qualitatively, more money will have to be provided in the state budget for this activity. Otherwise, I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you, Comrade Bevk, for a difficult debate. We continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I took the floor as chairman of the committee. I must respond to the double charge that we have heard from Ambassador Shirca when she said that we were napping on the Committee of Members and members or that we were inattentive or asleep in her debate and that that is why those amendments she proposed were not accepted. I'm afraid I have to disappoint her, and I'm going to prove it mathematically. The fact is, that is why they were rejected because we listened attentively to it. As a matter of fact, I can prove it mathematically. When she presented this particular problem, which she was also talking about here once again, it is a matter of the costs that will be incurred by the committee's law, she said that it is estimated that 26 million tons of costs will be in the government's explanation, but that these costs will go up to thousands of euros worldwide, 100 times the sum. Now, Mrs Shirca, I must remind you that thousands of euros are not 100 times the sum of 26 million Slovenian tolars. However, with mathematics, even when it comes to primary schooling, I can prove by its introductory debate here that, in the case of the country that cited it, there are costs of 2 million euros, and it translated it into 240 million Slovenian tolars. I don't know what course you're taking tolls in euros, but I think there's a 240 course available right now, which means that 2 million euros is 480 million Slovenian tolars, which is five, 100 times less than the sum you've given. So, just because we listened very carefully to you, of course, such an amendment with such an explanation could not be accepted and please do not offend colleagues and colleagues on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you, Comrade Grimes. Replica, Ambassador Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u197	Allow me to fix it. I will exercise the right to correction. Some members of the Committee on Culture did not take a nap but remained silent. And unfortunately, the government representatives were too quiet, so they did not answer those questions that are still on the run, and not just me, obviously others, when they raise the financial consequences of this law. By the way, Mr Grims, it looks like you've been napping here today, because I've already said three times that 2 million Euros means about 240 million SIT.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you. Comrade Grimes, I will not give you a replica of the replica, but I will give you a discussion, according to your weather forecast, you have time. Are you applying to the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u199	Just a very short answer. I have a magnetogram here about her discussion at the board meeting. Its debate from the beginning of this meeting is also, I think, now available in the form of a magnetogram. So you can see for yourself that I have correctly stated and that I am listening to it very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you. I give my word to the House of Commons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you. I'm not an archivist myself, and I'm committed to the secret of this profession. However, I went through the archives at my previous work a lot, so I have a little different judgment as to how archives were accessible or inaccessible in the past. I am really pleased that the original idea of reorganising the archives did not come true because from historical experience I know what happened to the archive material when the archives were centralized. We who live in Styrian might be able to express a wide range of educational experiences. But now to this amendment, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is referring to the method of defining archival material as I think it is acceptable and, with three different views on the definition of archival material, my fellow Member Sam Bevk has previously justified, because the definition offered by the proposer in the second article is indeed unacceptable to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to extend to what is, and not least, the law on the accessibility of public information and the availability of classified data, so that some things are resolved by these two laws. We are talking about archival material, which is a cultural monument, but let me warn you, also this material, which is defined as a cultural monument, can sometimes be of such nature that it may have some facts published from this material, for which it is not exactly expected or everyone likes the consequences. I'm thinking mostly about the data that goes into the private sphere of any of the creators. However, I would like to explain to Article 2, which we are currently discussing or the amendment to it, that, unfortunately, there was also no excessive hearing on the committee for an amendment that tried to harmonise some of the professional terms used otherwise in this article than were then used in the text below. This was not accepted either. However, if the arguments or explanations were not exhaustive, loud and numerous, this is already a practice that we already know from the work of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and is almost no longer worth losing words about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Branko Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. However, I am also a member of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, where all these amendments on the Committee have also been dealt with, coordinated, voted and adopted. But speaking of which, respected colleagues and colleagues about how someone is silent or speaking, I would still like to remind you of something. Many times it would be better to keep quiet than to speak empty. In the amendments that we have discussed on the Committee, the government has drawn up government amendments and we have accepted them. As for my personal silence on this committee, I must say that I have been very [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u204	My friend Marinic, if you'll excuse me, we heard the committee report in the introduction. Article 2 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group are currently under discussion. If I allow you to discuss what is happening on the committee, I will be forced to do so to everyone else. Therefore, please stick to the content of Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Of course I'll take it into account. But speaking of a specific amendment, let me say something that, for the very reason that I want to explain, I prefer not to speak on this committee. It was simple to find that the opinion of the legislature follows the opposition's amendments. Of course, I took note of government proposals at the time, and we also endorsed and adopted government proposals on the Committee. So much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I believe that it is only necessary to listen to the possibility of defining the archive material in the way proposed by this amendment. To avoid any special misunderstandings, this is not a matter of the whim of the Liberal Democracy, but it is a dictatorship of the law in force, which was prepared by the archival profession at the time of my ministry. At the outset, the minister himself said that this law worked well and that it needed to be complemented in the part where certain matters were preceded by technology. I would not even like to discuss this claim, but what is the difference between the law in force and what is the new solution is that, in fact, the archival material, as stated in this special indent, corresponds to another additional element that has a lasting importance for the legal safety of persons, in accordance with the professional instructions of the relevant archives. Even if we agree to this extension that this status is relevant to the permanent security of persons, it has added to the problem because it does not fully state the law under what conditions. Some other submarital acts could be controversial in this regard. That's one aspect. Another aspect is that, in fact, the archival material, as defined in the present law, is the status of the cultural monument. This second aspect is even more problematic for a simple reason because it means different treatment of this material. So it seems to me that, in fact, it would suggest that this amendment be supported, that these dilemmas simply be reconsidered, that part of the archival material must certainly be regarded as a cultural monument. When it comes to a cultural monument, such material is certainly treated differently from other types of archive material. I believe that this is boring for someone, but of course it is very important, because of, on the one hand, the availability of the material and, on the other hand, the handling of such a type of material. These types of extensions will certainly have financial implications, but I wouldn't have bothered to do that. This is permissible, but I am not sure that the archival service is currently capable of downloading material that is so redefined, so widely redefined. This will certainly lead to some problems in the future, because the material that should otherwise be held by state and other authorities will potentially land in materials, access to them will certainly be more complex than if they were kept at some time in an appropriate manner where they were created and where people need them to exercise their different rights. Therefore, I believe that it is only necessary to reconsider if we do not maintain this old definition of article 2 of the current law, which is the amendment, while we would consider this moment of protection of personal interests until the third reading and possibly incorporate it into a material of a different degree, not what is today referred to as a cultural monument. This seems to me to be a key issue in this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Allow me only to remind you that, of course, the government representative or the minister has his own time and that he can be involved at any time in the debate. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u209	In the opinion of the Group, I have already touched on the issues of finance, so allow me, my dear colleague Školč, to consider it important to discuss costs and finances, because if the amounts for other things related to digitisation, to store and all of this, they can still grow through the announced frameworks, and I think the sense of this has been added to yours, and I therefore further support it, precisely in that it is the archival material that is a cultural monument and then I see the wisdom of the Ministry of Culture taking over part of the costs. For all that is related to the e-government, however, I see no reason why this should come from the wave of the Ministry of Culture, because it is then seen in the budget resources, in the index of the cultural ministry, and I do not know what else. And we also know about the "grain-to-grain" thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you. Member Shirtz has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u211	Nor do I find this financial aspect so insignificant, even though I do not fully manage the finances, and I agree that I have not doubled the sum that has become so important today when I converted the euro into tolars. Since there has actually been no clear answer, and since there has been some vague misrepresentation so far, I would like to invite the Minister here to tell us - because it is not just for me - who will finance this chapter of digitisation of archive materials in the future. Who will provide the infrastructure for the entire computer base, for people, for programmers and for everyone who will have to record these things, take over and refresh them every time? Is this going to be public or is this going to be a private job? Given that we are facing the possibility of concessionaires and so on. And if it is private, where it will gain on the market that will stimulate it to act economically more competitively. This is important. And if you'll excuse me, Minister, before we hear your answer, there's something else. How is there no answer to the question why there are no criminal provisions for those concessionaires who are potentially carrying out electronic archiving? What happens, for example, if a private company gets in charge and keeps state papers and takes over, what if such a company goes down? What will happen if data abuse occurs, if data leaks occur? What if the archives were eventually destroyed? What if, for example, this is done by the public service, if such a service is privatized? In short, there is a lot of danger, and I mention them only because such documents are of high value, not only in the area where we compare them with cultural heritage, but also in some ways on some secrets, on some confidentialitys, on some very sensitive levels of historical memory. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Avoid further misunderstandings. Of course, I know the financial implications are important, but when we talk about this redefinition of archival material, it seems more important to think about the consequences that redefinition itself brings. I didn't go into these calculations myself, how much it's really gonna cost. With a finger you can say calmly, from the experience that I have with the archives myself, that the consequences of the change of law are assessed financially modestly. This assessed part is not as important as the essential changes to the law. Amendments should also be supported if we are fully aware of them. There's got to be a problem in one part of here. In all respects, those who care about how much and who it costs will certainly cost the state budget if it comes to the legal obligation prescribed in this way. And it can also be fully implemented through the Ministry of Culture, whether it is declared a cultural monument or not. In the end, the Minister will even be able to boast with a large index because such a law brings great financial obligations. We mustn't be afraid of that. But we need to know that redefinition means significant problems where we define what archival material is. That is why I have focused my discussion on this side, not on the financial consequences, which will undoubtedly be great.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Uhanov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not that expert, Mrs. Shirca, in this area. I'm just being asked some questions, though, and I might be delegating in this direction. I imagine that the data produced or the material produced in public administration must be produced in a standardised manner, as well as in certain forms. I don't know why we would turn this into a different form for the purposes of the archive. Why not already in the introduction, in the beginning, prescribe how this material should be produced and in what form, so that it will be useful for the archive, if necessary, and if this material is to be defined as archival material. I don't think it's necessary to cause double costs, but it should be prescribed in the beginning that it can be fed as well. But what will be the technology in this area in 10, 20 years from now, it is difficult today in this war or in this hypertrophy of electronic media to predict whether this material will be acceptable in about 20 years. Therefore, it seems to me that there is no point in discussing the additional costs, but let the public administration already prepare the material in such a form that it will also be acceptable for the archive material if this is defined as archival material.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u217	Guaranteed last time. Only now is another magnetogram available here, today, from which it is clear that I have listened very carefully and fully to my colleague. But why didn't I already come to the committee and warn you that something was wrong with this mathematics, but the answer is very simple. In the circumstances in which we work, if you don't have a magnetogram in your hands, the next day I'll be accused of discrediting a colleague, then any petition against me will be signed on this committee, and Hanžek will come forward and accuse me of hostile rumors. You know, I also have something smarter to do, and then I stick to that, talking is silver, but I keep my mouth shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u218	Comrade Grimes, thank you. Believe me, I'm very happy, too, that there is a magnetogram for the same reason as you just said. Given that I no longer see the desire for a debate between Members, I ask the Minister again whether he will answer the questions raised during the debate. No, you won't. Then I conclude the debate. Mrs. Shirca, please. Please come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u219	I'm sorry, I'd like an answer to a question I asked. I apologize, Minister, we have not received it so far and I think it is very important not only for us, but for the archivists who will face obligations they do not know today and who do not know them at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u220	Mrs. Shirca, I know that at least as well as I do you know the division of power. We cannot ask the Minister for an answer, but we can expect it and express our will. I have called on the Minister twice, we have both heard the same answer, so I am closing the debate around Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 53 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u221	Mr Minister, I read in the paper today that this marriage is somehow not close to you and that you do not understand it yet, but in fact the Slovenians and Slovenes need to understand it, the archivists will need it at all, and if they have not participated enough in its preparation, they need your explanation so much more. At 39, no, 53rd Article A 39, you said, didn't you? [[...]] Why isn't 39, or are we in a row? Under Article 53, only a brief explanation is made that we would like to correct a significant systemic error. It is written here that this is part of the business register of the Public Records Agency, on the basis of which archives determine their competence for individual archive material creators. We believe that it is only a territorial, real relationship of jurisdiction between individual archives, and that this would also make the protection of material from being taken over from a legal point of view completely incomplete. That is why we are proposing a better dictatorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 53 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 73, paragraph 73, and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss this article? My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u223	What I would like to ask the Minister is whether he is willing to participate in this debate or not. This also makes sense for us to exert ourselves. We have now passed two provisions without actually knowing where we might have shot past. This seems quite unusual to me in this atmosphere, when the Prime Minister is very much looking forward to various discussions on the various things that await us in the future. At this point, we are talking about archives, some very specific matter, where there is not even any specific political division, and yet we are showing some will to fix the law and run into a wall of ignorance. What good is this discussion if we do not receive answers? I thank you for your raised hand because I expect us to talk about the things that are written in these three modest additions and touch on the archive law, which, fortunately, remained almost entirely as it was adopted ten years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you. I'll give you the word of the House of Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u225	I would like to explain another amendment, which unfortunately could not come to the table today because it was not adequately supported on the working body, where, as I say, the discussion was more thin. 73. However, which is not so insignificant, it is not so insignificant that the conditions for the storage of documentary material must be accurate and clearly recorded. Moreover, what is most important, if I sum up this amendment, is that it is unequivocally said that the storage of documentary material and all accompanying services in digital form for the authorities of the state administration is taken care of by the state. It is said that we would not then find ourselves in an empty space, even in the context of what has not been answered today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you. Question to the Minister - I've seen a raised hand before, but I don't know if it was a greeting or an application.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u228	Was the application to the word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u229	Yeah, I'd just like to say something modest. I'll answer these clear questions in the end. I find it extremely inappropriate, however, that Mrs Shirca uses the word swindling that I do not understand something. And Mr Školč - ignorance is a term that he probably doesn't know and is close to the word arrogant and, of course, a Quarulan. I will not answer such things, but in the end I will be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u230	Allow me to make a call as chairman. Mr. Minister, there will be an end to this debate very soon. At this point, we are at the third amendment, and when I conclude the debate on the third amendment, there will be no further discussion. According to my assessment, it is now high time to include, if you intend to, a well-intentioned comment. But I saw that there was also a Member of the School.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u231	As a long-standing parliamentarian, I will only say that the purpose of this debate is, as organised, to hear the answers of the bill's proponents. I have no intention of apologizing for using the word "ignorant" because this does not merit the Minister's action of a different mark. Here we speak, we propose, we ask, we question, we question, we kind of look like the Minister is not actually in this room or maybe he does not understand the parliamentary procedure. If I understood it, I would actually be able to clean up the dilemmas within each point. The lack of understanding of the parliamentary procedure is not good. Perhaps it is understandable that it does not accept the way parliamentary work is done. But against this I, as a Parliamentary and one of his predecessors, can rightly protest. I learned a lot about this marriage. He was the first person I met as Minister of Culture, and I assure you that we would not be able to accept him if we behaved as you did in this House today. We have led the debate for a long time, we have led it with different actors, both in Parliament and outside it, we have not allowed that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u232	Comrade Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u233	Dear Minister, if you and the expert who wrote this law, or with those who have been touched by this law, have behaved as much as you have with us, then I doubt so much more that these solutions are really the best and so much the more not the superficial reading of this bill and even the more the left-handed draft of the law that I have dedicated myself to him, the more these questions open up to me and the more I fear for the future of the archival profession and all that can happen from this law, which has so many strangers. So I ask you to answer at least those three questions that I asked you and I wouldn't ask you if you had answered them sooner.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u234	Comrade Shirtz, thank you. The Minister has made a statement that, at a given time when we have paragraph 73 in the debate, there has been a misunderstanding, under the terms of reference, in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the State Assembly by a representative of the Government, the Minister, and I ask: Does anyone object to the presence of Members that the Minister also responds to the dilemmas raised in the title of Article 2 already concluded and in the title of Article 53 of the already concluded debate? I'm asking if anyone's objecting. I will not allow the Members to resume the debate referred to in these two articles. So it's just the minister. Who's gonna stand up to this? I see opposition from Mr. Skolcz, so I won't allow it. Mr. Minister, you may speak in conjunction with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u235	[[...]] [[Not included.]] With regard to Article 73 [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, you can apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 73, the applicant considers that Article 73 of the Law is more appropriate because, in order to provide the necessary infrastructure for electronic storage and accompanying services in digital form, a suitable combined solution has been demonstrated, since the public administration will only provide the most necessary infrastructure for the most sensitive data. For the rest of the electronic storage, a private infrastructure market for the private and public sectors will be established. We know this orientation in the public administration of our country and also in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you. A colleague of Školč also applied to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u239	Mr Vice President, I wanted to say hello to your benevolence earlier and share it with you so that the Minister can answer the questions raised earlier. In any event, it would make sense if we heard something new, that you thought we would leave the debate on those issues as well. That is why I raised my hand, and I ask that you allow the Minister to answer the previous questions, and I will continue to commit myself that, given the state of the Minister, I will not ask him any questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you for your words. Look, Mr Školč, I will not, because this rule of procedure prohibits me, reopen debates for all Members in conjunction with the debate already concluded with Articles 2 and 53. If I do this once, it is likely that I will receive confirmation or question from your parliamentary group as to whether or not I am in violation of the rules of procedure. I therefore give the Minister the floor only if the other Members no longer touch the content, once again I stress Article 2 and Article 53 and the amendments to these articles. If the Minister only has one word left, then the debate is closed. Does anyone object? And for the last time, I ask. I'll count as an objection if someone has a raised hand, as in the previous case with Mr. Školč. Please, please, you can speak in conjunction with all or with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Even with Article 2 and so on? Good. Thank you very much. We have heard first of all honourable Member Shirca, who says that I am being misled and that I do not understand much about the cost of the same service. And she talked about 2 million euros, while the proponents talk only about the cost being 26 million. Firstly, it used a comparison with the Netherlands, and such comparisons are unsustainable because they are completely different qualities and dimensions. Secondly, the question is when we talk about the financial consequences, how big, how big and how big they will be. I can also label this as mere sedition when it's said that they'll be extremely large. And no one can say, and you've been doing this for four years since 2000, and no one knows what it is. In this regard, I would like to tell you that the archiving service is already involved in digitisation and that within these services, certain funds are already allocated to digitisation and related costs, with an annual allocation of around 370 million, the funds already provided for in the state budget. Therefore, the opinion that the Slovenian State does not have sufficient resources to protect electronic materials is incorrect and also irresponsible, since it is almost based on the assumption that so far nothing has been done in this area, but that many things have been done in this area and the archives or archives have followed the challenges of time very responsibly and have also adapted in a timely manner to these things. It was therefore also provided in a timely manner and to a certain extent certain resources were provided. A total of about 370 million dollars is now being spent on this. I could talk more about these things, but I don't need to. It was said here that people walked around the archives a lot, and that they also knew something about it. I don't know. I think I went through the archives the most in this room. I'd hope to say so, but I didn't hear the kind of ones I'd say flattening marks over my finger, but what I don't know is how much it's gonna cost. And the archive material, I must say, is very interesting. With regard to the definition of archival material, which was said to be a number of things. The definition set out in the proposal for a law that archival material is that documentary material that has a permanent significance for science and culture or that is of lasting importance for the legal safety of persons in accordance with the professional instructions of the competent archives is, in our opinion, appropriate and does not extend the current concept of archival material because archival material as a cultural monument is that part of documentary material used as a historical source for the study of our past and present and for the legal security of legal and natural persons. The archive material is used for various scientific, research and cultural, educational, informational purposes, and is used for various legal, administrative, business and personal purposes of legal and natural persons. For example, medieval documents are or are also used for the safety of legal and natural persons. The competent archive shall provide the public with the archive material in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law and the criteria established in the archives. The criteria for determining archival material are also laid down in this law. This is also a safeguard in the event that the public-law authorities will also take over material that is not archival. This is what this is about - this is Article 39 - where it is clearly defined how things are defined, what is it, so what are the criteria for archival material. So it can't be imposed from the outside, but it's the profession that defines it. In this respect, the applicant considers that it is based on the identification of public legal persons who are required to deliver archival material under this Act to the competent archive in Articles 54 and 56 of the Act. Within the framework of the business register, the State archives, regional archives and archives of the self-government local communities shall be maintained by the register of public entities. This register cannot be compared to the registers of cultural heritage. This register does not include archival material as a cultural monument, but only information about public entities. This archive must be handed over to the competent archive. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, too, Members of Parliament and Members for their readiness. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or no later than 20. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, a bill on mineral fertilisers is being tabled. I hereby inform you that a total time of 31 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I should give the word and, of course, I will also give it, because I see that the Minister has joined us, a representative of the government for further explanation. The government has announced three minutes in this connection. Mrs Maria Lukačič is with us today. Nicely greeted! Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for a mineral fertiliser law replaces the 2002 law of the same name. It represents alignment with the European acquis. The new law transposes the content of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mineral fertilisers into the Slovenian legal order. The law also regulates precisely the tolerances provided for in the European Regulation, namely the conditions and procedures for the transport and use of mineral fertilisers in the territory of Slovenia, which do not meet all the requirements laid down in the European Regulation. The law also establishes the competent authorities for the implementation of the law and regulates the procedures for inspection and sanctioning infringements of the law. With the adoption of the law, the Republic of Slovenia will fully align the transport of mineral fertilisers with European legislation, so I propose that the law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the member of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u245	Nicely greeted. Madam Minister, co-worker and once again Members and Members of Parliament. At its 8th session, 17.2., the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Economy and Food considered the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Legal and Agricultural Services of the Slovenian Chamber participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which, although supporting the bill, suggested that the Ministry of State should verify the use of the quantities and means of artificial fertilisers in the Republic of Slovenia. In this respect, the lawmaker explained that the data on the use of artificial fertilisers are data, that the statistical office of the Republic of Slovenia keeps records and that they are reliable. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the government representative stressed that the proposal for a new law on mineral fertilisers, as a result of the amendment of European legislation, governs the implementation of the European fertilisation regulation, the competent authority for the implementation of the regulation, the competent control authority and the method of sampling for analysis, for the purposes of this control, the labelling of mineral fertilisers placed on the market in the Slovenian language. Next. The law also regulates mineral fertilisers in the Republic of Slovenia that do not comply with the conditions laid down in the European Regulation, provide for the control of the composition, quality and labelling of mineral fertilisers placed on the market, their use, the obligations of the producers of mineral fertilisers from ammonium nitrate, with a high nitrogen personality, the storage of records and the reporting of tests carried out, with regard to the resistance to explosives. On a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee took into account their proposals and adopted the amendments to each article. Finally, he confirmed all the articles and adopted the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. We will first hear the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u247	Nice greetings to the secretary and colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers is a law that is certainly extremely important for the development of both humanity and agriculture and the food chain. This law establishes that mineral fertilisers are all compounds and substances, irrespective of the aggregate state of the plant food and are added to soil and plants for the purpose of improving the growth of crops, improving the quality of crops and improving soil fertility, with mineral fertilisers meeting the conditions of the Regulation of the European Union and fertilisers which do not meet the minimum quality conditions laid down in this Regulation. In this case, the Minister may prescribe its conditions under which mineral fertiliser may be placed on the market. In doing so, we would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the law provides that fertilisers or raw material for fertilisers already in transport are dangerous to human health or safety and to the environment or that the analysis reveals an excess of heavy metals or other harmful substances. This raises a number of questions, so we expect the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as the Ministry of the Environment and Space, to develop a policy that will allow animal breeders and other agricultural programmes to produce healthy and non-toxic food. The next point we point out is the fact that soils, as the upper part of the earth’s crust, are composed of mineral and organic substances that allow for the existence of all terrestrial organisms. Due to extremely slow soil production, soils are non-renewable or only partially renewable natural resources and therefore need to be managed rationally. Today, we find that soil pollution is increasing, even due to intensive agriculture. In soil, organic and inorganic hazardous substances remain in the soil after the pollution has ceased. It is therefore necessary to monitor soil quality as only in this way can we act in a timely manner or direct human activity so that it has as little negative impact on the soil as possible. So this is a very important condition for precisely prescribing the use of mineral fertilisers. Given that we currently know only about 8% of the territory, it is a priority to complete soil pollution research and to establish soil pollution monitoring. The second measure we see is a measure of soil quality that can only be implemented if agriculture has sufficient surfaces worked. In Slovenia, there are currently too few crops for food production and it is therefore necessary to prevent further transformation of the best agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes. From 1991 to 2003, the area of the fields decreased intensely, leaving only 850 square metres per capita. Thus, in the short term, we expect the implementation of rules that will introduce rules of good agricultural practice, and to achieve this objective requires a substantial change in the current way in which agricultural land is managed. The proposed law is a small step towards this and we will support it. However, whether our agricultural policy is going sufficiently effectively towards the production of safe and healthy food is another issue and another chapter that goes beyond the content of this law. However, we want to discuss this equally comprehensively in other steps, which, as we say, must be submitted by the Ministry as soon as possible, so that we can really talk in Slovenia about good agricultural practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you, colleague Webber. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group should be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger, but he's not here. Therefore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers before us regulates the powers to implement the European Fertilizers Regulation, lays down the competent authority for implementing the Regulation, provides for the supervision and method of sampling for analysis for the purpose of controlling the use of mineral fertilisers placed on the market. Mineral fertilisers that do not meet European criteria shall be subject to quality control, composition and labelling of mineral fertilisers. The Legislative and Legal Service has addressed to the Committee a number of technical comments to which it should be pointed out that the Committee has fully taken them into account and accepted them as its amendments. It should also be pointed out that there was almost no debate on the Committee and that the Committee supported the law. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. We see no reason to oppose him. In particular, we warn, at least in our belief, of the lack of promotion of a healthy diet. We therefore believe that it would be imperative for the Ministry to establish and maintain a record of the placing of mineral fertilisers on the market and the quantity of fertilisers used, since we have not been able to carry out this surveillance and this record has not been carried out or has not been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the Vice-President of mag. Clavora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u251	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellow Members! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will therefore support it. The proposal regulates the implementation of the provisions of the European Parliament and Council Fertiliser Regulation 2003, which is fully binding and which is intended to provide appropriate technical criteria for the regulation of the internal market in fertilisers, the Regulation applies to fertilisers bearing the designation S and also regulates procedures for obtaining that mark. The proposed law also regulates the transport of mineral fertilisers which cannot be labelled as S fertiliser, since, under a regulation by the Member States of the European Union, they can prescribe minimum conditions for their quality. The proposal also sets out the bodies responsible for implementing the regulation, namely the phytosanitary administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the agricultural inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of our Group point out that the proposal on fertilisers that do not comply with the requirements of the Regulation does not prescribe in what form the fertilising content, i.e. phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium, should be listed, and we believe that this issue should also be addressed in this law. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the proposed law is of no marginal importance, since it also affects the environment itself. We are aware that health is the most important value of life and, in accordance with this principle, there is a need to continuously tighten control of both production and sales, especially over the use of all types of fertilisers, as it is the agricultural activity with starches and mineral fertilisers that is one of the largest environmental pollutants. We stress, however, that more weight should be given to organic agriculture as a means of sustainable co-agricultural farming, in which pesticides, disinfected seeds, artificial mineral fertilisers and genetically modified organisms are naturally strictly prohibited, since this type of agriculture provides an opportunity for the long-term conservation of agricultural activities that offer the production market in the highest quality and price class, which are safe for consumers and help to preserve the environment, protect nature and, in particular, ensure the production of healthy food. In our parliamentary group, we assess that the proposal for a law at the principal level is properly governed by this area, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you. And we are moving on to the last presentation of the views of the SDS Group, Member Milenko Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u253	[[...]] [[Not included.]] Thank you for the words, Mr President, for your kind greeting to the Minister and to the colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] The 2002 Mineral Fertilizers Act should be supplemented with a view to the adoption of a Regulation of the European Council and of the Parliament 2003/2003/EC. The draft law regulates the powers to implement the European Fertilisers Regulation: the powers of the control authorities, the method of sampling for control purposes, the labelling of fertilisers placed on the market in the Slovenian language, the procedures where the fertiliser does not comply with the Regulation, namely the control of composition, quality, labelling and use; the obligations of manufacturers of fertilisers from ammonium nitrate or fertilisers with a high nitrogen content; the storage of high nitrogen transport records; the reporting of explosive tests carried out for these fertilisers with a high nitrogen content. Mineral fertilisers which are on the market in the European Union and comply with the Regulation may bear the EC mark and shall not be hindered by the placing on the market within the European Union. However, since each country allows the transport of fertilisers of other origins, it can be regulated by internal regulations. In Slovenia, many fertilisers are used by the Croatian producer, which do not have the EC mark, but may be placed on the market if they comply with the rules of the Mineral Fertiliser Act. The law thus regulates the conditions for the placing on the market of certain types of mineral fertiliser, the authorities of control and their duties, the labelling and management of records, the quality control and the suitability of use, the manner in which explosively hazardous fertilisers are handled with high nitrogen content, the maintenance and storage of records of explosively hazardous fertilisers from amonitrate and penalties for irregularities in the transport of mineral fertilisers. It also prescribes a method of labelling and control requirements in laboratories which must operate according to the principles of good practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the law by ensuring greater transparency over the quality of the minerals used. The control system reduces the possibility of consumption of non-quality fertilisers or products of poor quality and thus protects the interests of direct users, i.e. farmers. I also believe that the use of artificial fertilisers is governed by another law, namely the nitrate directive and then the laws on healthy food production, and therefore only indirectly apply to this law. As has already been said, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you for presenting your position. We have also concluded with this by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups, which, of course, have announced this. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am also concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Monday 6 March of this year within the framework of the point of vote. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 6:10 p.m. Until then, good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u255	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We will continue the meeting by the voting point. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, as usual the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I see that there are no problems with the voting devices, which means we can go to the vote. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. With Article 1, by the SDS, NSI and SLS groups, we have proposed an amendment which is linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Title 7 of Chapters 72, 73 and 74, with the second amendment to Articles 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 90, 92 and 97. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council decide to vote together on all these amendments. We are voting on that proposal. There are 67 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We turn to the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 1, Article 7, Article 72, Article 73 and Article 74, Article 76, Article 77, Article 79, Article 80, Article 81, Article 83, Article 84, Article 85, Article 86, Article 87, Article 90, Article 92 and Article 97. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendments are accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 3.a. Explanation of voice. Comrade Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u256	In the Liberal Democracy Group, we will vote against the amendment to Article 3a. I have already said in the debate that we are committed to a more modern law, and if this article is deleted, I am afraid that we will close the possibility of making one thought before the third reading and trying to incorporate a more modern article into this law, which would not be based on old stereotyped views of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Samo Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will not support the proposal of the three parliamentary groups to delete Article 3a, nor will we listen to the government that is adhering to this amendment. This amendment Article 3a, I will read it: the Republic of Slovenia respects the principle of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, that national minorities in the European Union are an important factor in cooperation between countries. The Republic of Slovenia supports cross-border cooperation between local and regional authorities, where the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries is an important factor. Let me say that this amendment has been adopted by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world unanimously by all parliamentary groups. And that this amendment was prepared on the proposal of Slovenian Minority Coordination, SLOMAK, is said to be the umbrella organisations of the Slovenian National Community in place in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia. That is why we believe that this article should be left as it is written in the text, so I ask my fellow Members and colleagues not to support this amendment to delete this article so that we will have some modern law, some modern article which also introduces the European spirit into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you. Comrade Kramberger, on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll explain my voice on my behalf. For this amendment to Article 3a, we have aligned it with the coordination of SLOMAK and the representatives of the minority estimate that this amendment is necessary and the legal service of the National Assembly has not opposed it. Personally, I think that nothing is wrong if there are also documents written here, which the Slovenian country has undoubtedly ratified. And to avoid some interpretation in the neighborhood, it is better to accept this amendment. Well, I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 32. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 13. We will therefore first decide on the first amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to the said Article 13. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 10. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the same article by the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 15. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 19. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Terchoon on his own behalf, on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my own name. So I will not oppose this amendment, and I think it would be good if it were accepted. It would be good for him to be accepted because article 19 is the most controversial, essential in this law and is bad. There has been a lot of debate about it, and I think that once the amendment has been adopted, it would have made it possible for the last thought and perhaps the coalition to consider and realise that our proposals have been constructive and in the third reading, to take into account that they could adopt a law with a consensus that everyone who has taken on today is in agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 7. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 21. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups, i.e. SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 71. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 76. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 86. We have two amendments. We will first decide on the amendment to the first amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups, i.e. to Article 78. I repeat. We will again decide on the two amendments to Article 78. First on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to the said Article. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 17. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to the same, i.e. Article 78. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups, i.e. SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 82. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 19. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 88. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 92. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 21. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 97. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, with 60.1 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of documentary and archival materials and archives. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We'll decide on three amendments each. First we move to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary group [[...]] I'd like to ask the guests of the National Assembly to finish their work by leaving the sitting room as far as they can. Buddy Kramberger! Please escort the guests out because they're disturbing the meeting. Thank you for paying attention. So we continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on documentary and archiving material and archives. As we say, we will decide on three amendments. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. Ambassador Shirtz, on his behalf, on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Already in today's somewhat dramatic debate on this law, in the Liberal Democracy, we said that this law is a 95% repetition of the good existing law, and in those five it is a certain lift, it is said, to deal with and introduce a new necessary chapter. However, this chapter shows that only one issue is being raised, namely electronic protection, especially the material that arises from the work of the public administration and within the public administration. As a result, this amendment seeks to create a certain distinction where not every last document produced in public administration, in ministries, in administrative units and so on, in short, from the home books and records to the catalogue, the extract from social protection, would be given the status of the cultural monument. This will not only burden the entire archives, which are still very weak and overcrowded and no longer manage it, neither spatially nor physically, I will say intellectually, but will also burden No, because in the afternoon no one or another government representative was interested in what is happening to this law. [[...]] And because they weren't interested in drafting this law, obviously we didn't get enough answers today, and because we didn't have enough, I don't know how we can even support the law when we vote in full. In short, to summarise, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask for support from this amendment, which would make order in defining what is an archival record of cultural significance, and that it is not necessary for such a name and so on to have the value of every paper produced by the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 53. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the final decision under point 6, which is to decide on the amendment of Article 73 of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Even though the minister said today that we were asking clear questions, I have to say that we didn't get it, I won't say the right ones, but I won't say the answers at all. This amendment seeks to determine who will bear the costs of all that activity, which will not be small when it is also necessary to transfer the archival material to electronic records formally when the law enters into force. This electronic record of the law specifies that it will be possible to go to the market, this activity in order for a private company to do so, but also for a public company or public sector, so you replied, Minister. However, this is not clearly stated in the law. Above all, it is not clear what the financial implications are, since for such a large, demanding, not only in software, infrastructure techniques, but also in terms of the project in general, there is neither in the budget nor in the legal records of the funding provided. The law brings 26 million tolars, but we know that such projects are much more ambitious, challenging, but not only are they sufficient to repair the three salaries of new ones in the State Archives. In short, this amendment slightly corrects what you did not do in marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, I missed you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u268	Mr. Vice President, I didn't miss you. Of course, I would expect the government to give its opinion on this matter, and I missed that opinion. The Minister is probably not aware, but the state budget cannot be provided by means under the Public Finance Act unless there is a legal basis for this. And if the Minister of Culture believes that he will be able to provide money in the way it was in line with the media somewhere else, of course, in principle, if it is supported by the ruling coalition, but of course it is illegal. Here is the legal option, the legal basis in accordance with the Public Finance Act in order to be able to provide funds for the storage of documentary material under the State budget for the transitional period [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in digital form. [[...]] Unless of course you will accept this amendment, then of course you have two options. One is that you will propose illegal budget items and the other that you simply do not believe in digitisation of the archive. I therefore propose, of course, that the amendment whereby the Liberal Democracy Group merely tries to help you manage the archives as a ruling coalition support you. If you don't support him, it just reflects your ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 42. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Monday, 6 March of this year, within the framework of the point of vote. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 7th item, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Law on Mineral Fertilizers will be held on Monday 6 March 2006 as well as within the framework of the point of vote. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of a European company. On Tuesday, 28.2., the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. On Tuesday, 28.2.2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. As no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, I repeat, on the basis of paragraph 5 of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the government have not warned me that the law on the basis of the working body of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. Voice explanation, Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of Members. The government proposal without adopted amendments, which have been tabled by the Social Democrats, the LDS and the Slovenian National Party, is not acceptable to us, especially because it does not include an environmental aspect, excludes and parts of people in two categories, i.e. those who worked in a factory and are entitled to certain health services, compensations and diagnostics, and those who have stayed in addition to the factory and are not entitled to those rights. Of course, it also excludes the right to information for those workers who have been in the factory and who have been involved in the diagnostic process, also excludes the right of their legitimate legal representative, respected as chairman, please, and of course [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u271	My friend, if you'll excuse me. I ask that the SDS Group meet in the lobby or at another time. Please don't disturb the speaker. Go on, please, Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u272	The existing government proposal also reduces the right to pension conditions for those who have essentially received a disability category, as working hours are increasing and, last but not least, for the third category of disability, puts these workers in an unfavourable position, because when it is found that the employer cannot provide adequate working conditions, this worker enjoys some denial of the right to stay in the institution and then goes to the list of unemployed. A very cruel law, which was essentially supported by the mother's working body, is a poorly prepared law, which also shows that the ruling coalition has been putting its amendments on almost all articles of the law, and unacceptable because, as I said before, it excludes the environmental aspect. In the Slovenian National Party, we will draw up a law which will include all aspects of solving this problem, including addressing the sustainable consequences in the environment and in the space and which will actually ensure the same conditions as the previous law, because we know that this law is significantly worse than the previous law that has now ceased to apply. And that. The Ministry and the government have done nothing to obtain the necessary international means to remedy these consequences, and we have not received an answer to this question. We therefore predict that we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Samo Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. In the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, we will vote against the law on addressing the consequences of asbestos exposure because it does not include the environmental aspect of asbestos diseases and, of course, has other shortcomings. With the amendments of the opposition, which were all in a row rejected, we followed the government's intentions of December 2004, which in the starting points for the drafting of the new law stated that it would include all potential exhibitors, both employees and former employees in the manufacturing process or service services, who came directly or indirectly into contact with asbestos dust, as well as residents, due to the environmental exposure of asbestos to diagnosis of mesotheli. A similar promise was made last June by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs in response to my question last June. Janez Petty Officer. In view of the change in the original concept of the government proposal in the final stage of the drafting of the law, it became clear in these days. They were afraid of the financial consequences of such a solution, but the data on the number of patients due to the environmental provinces of asbestos diseases presented at the clinical institute for the medical work of the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana were not large and would not significantly burden the budget. In the previous month, the Dutch Government promised to amend legislation that would equalise the rights of patients with mesothalioma, whether they have become sick at work in asbestos production or have been exposed to asbestos in the natural environment, particularly in the business environment. Now we have the opportunity to join the Netherlands in equating the rights of the sick. The law is not consistent with the social partners, nor is it consistent with the medical profession. In the Association of Unions of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia, in the Society of Asbestos, in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and also in the medical profession. Today, with a special letter, Members and Members of Parliament also addressed the Association of Asbestos Trade Unions and sent us a letter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, who wrote: "I received an open letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the resolution of the asbestos problem, and I also took a closer look at the content of the amendments in the Union of Asbestos Trade Unions and the conceptual solutions to the proposal for a new law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work." In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, I committed myself to extending the validity and implementation of the now existing asbestos law until the adoption of the social partners [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u275	Comrade Bevk, I did not interrupt you, even though I should have you on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, but I have assessed that the content was so important that it is right that you have also made public with it all the other Members and Members. But I'm asking for peace in the hall. We're moving to the vote. I'm sorry. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u276	The debate on amendments to this law has been long, extensive and, in my opinion, thorough, reasoned and, above all, suggested possible solutions to improve the law. Such solutions were in the amendments, but none of the amendments that would substantially amend the law were adopted. [[I'm speaking on behalf of the group. Yeah, well, it hasn't been done yet.]] And because this was not possible - I don't know why - by the ruling coalition to listen to arguments, referring to some affected people writing letters, how the law in the work that was concerned, that is, the previous law, which also applied to people in the area of asbestos-produced establishments, instead of upgrading that law, settled matters so that everyone could get satisfied, get their status settled, was about getting married, and what is in fact unreasonable, referring to the arguments in the letter that speak for our amendments, is precisely by these arguments rejecting this solution. This is simply incomprehensible and I think it is necessary to make it very clear that in this case it is a very cruel act of Members and Members who will support the law. As we say, we can't do it because it's making things worse than it's already done in the marriage. It was said that you did not want to listen to the social partners in preparation for the amendment or for the adoption of the law. It was said that various expert proposals were also outside the National Assembly, in various discussions on the Health Committee, etc. Why such cruelty, I don't know, but it is obvious that there is only logic here to save some money in the budget, but the question of if I could even reach a serious dimension in height, because even in the past, when the money in the budget was intended to do so, the disease did not develop as far as was expected, and even in the future it probably would not. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group, anyone else? Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, only the representative of New Slovenia. Mr. Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Today's law is improving the law in force, which has been largely inoperable, showing the letters we received in Parliament. This also shows how inoperable it was, including that the funds allocated to the budget last year were not fully used. This law regulates the identification of occupational and other diseases and the reduction of functions due to exposure to asbestos dust. It recognises compensation in the flat rate for diseases and guarantees the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. I am confident that this law will cover all those who have ever been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust in their workplaces and will be given additional resources, of course, if any of the recognised forms of disease arising from this law have been identified by the Interdisciplinary Group of Experts. In our view, the proposal for a law that we are adopting has the right solutions for both those who are sick and those who are in a difficult situation. In our party, we are convinced that the proposed solution is not ideal, but it is good, at least in the light of comparable arrangements across Europe. The law does not reduce the level of rights, but extends them to all those who have ever been affected by this dust in their jobs. It is not that, as has been the case so far, when they have been entitled to funds under law, they will only be affected in a narrow area. Finally, I must also point out that this is a very sensitive area and that it is not good to raise political points in this area. This is why we will support the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you. We have concluded by explaining the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I mean, who's gonna explain the voice in their own name? The list is short for now. Vote explanation, please, Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This law is contrary to what the coalition representatives claim is shamefully worse than the previous law, despite the fact that it had a previous law, we can say that the shortcomings of a pre-prepared law. We can admit that, but it's not true that he wasn't operational. For several years, on the basis of such a bad marriage, a whole group of people who had become sick by contact with asbestos received compensation, were granted invalidity pensions, and could enjoy at least some of the rights that this law now deprives them. In 1998, a group of people affected by the environmental effects of asbestos was also included in the previous law. At all times, however, the law explicitly dealt not only with workers from Salonite but also with other workers. So it's a fat lie when someone claims that the previous law dealt with only a narrow circle of people. Fat lie! This law makes it worse or excludes a whole range of people who have so far had the opportunity to obtain compensation, namely, to exclude, for the first time, residents, secondly, all those who, outside of direct contact with asbestos in the workplace, have become sick of asbestos. I have already told you this in the debate, and I would not repeat what will now happen to those who worked in offices in different other jobs where they did not produce products containing asbestos. They're out, you're not giving them a chance. Workers who came into this environment to work and worked with other companies, dropped out, cops, customs,
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u281	Lock it up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u282	Doctors and so on. [[...]] It's over with them. They won't get compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u283	Mrs. Pechanova, you're out of time too. Next to explain the vote is Vice President, Master Klavora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u284	Respectable. No matter how divided we are by food and what anyone thinks, by another head than by what we might have listened to in this national assembly, by being unburdened by what someone has done before and did not do, I would like to tell you or just find out that I have not convinced you in my own words. Perhaps I could persuade you with the videos I keep in my head about this affected province, even more so about these affected people I've seen. If I am a member of the National Assembly from this part of our country, I would like to be unburdened not to speak when I hear about political points, it seems really wrong that we are talking about this in this case at all, but I would like to do as we say the duty, the duty of a Member and, of course, of the person who has met with this many times. I do not know how my fellow Members from my Group will vote. I'll vote against it myself. We are a small group, but we do not want to be small when deciding on this serious problem. Not by yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. I can't support this marriage myself. The reasons for this are quite a few. Some of them were already mentioned by my predecessors. I will mention in particular the lack of an environmental aspect in the bill before us. I find it unacceptable, we all know, and you will all agree with me that asbestos has been used to a great extent in construction. And people, when they moved into blocks or sent their children to kindergartens, couldn't choose whether to send a child to kindergarten with an asbestos roof or to move into a block where the asbestos presence is what it is, so I find it unacceptable that the law divides people into two groups. I would also like to draw attention to the government's attitude towards asbestos patients towards the law it is proposing today. I don't see the minister anywhere, and that also shows a certain attitude towards people. Of course, we cannot force him to be here with us today, but with his presence he would at least show that he is behind the law he is proposing. As you have probably already heard, we will in the Slovenian National Party draw up a new proposal for a law that is supposed to cross the political line, beyond what the government proposes. So let me call from this place all those who are willing to participate in the preparation of a better law that will take into account all categories of people, so that you will, of course, join us in the coming weeks in drafting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you. Voice explanation, Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u288	Thank you, Madam President. The new law, as has already been said, does not include a fundamental aspect, this is an environmental aspect, and the government's promise in 2004 in this new mandate, which we Members have set out, was that by the end of 2005 - of course, this was not fulfilled - to present to the National Assembly a law that will fully address this issue, which will also include the replacement of terrible criticisms and water installations, the elimination of indeed lasting environmental consequences and many others; that will not separate people from those who worked in factories, factories, directly exposed to asbestos, and those who were exposed to the factory in the residential environment. None of this has happened; you have even excluded people from procedures that are very important to them, diagnostic procedures. The Commissions, the two committees appointed by the Minister, met very rarely, the waiting periods were very long, there was no register of patients who could have been created, and you were completely excluded and ignored in the drafting of the new law. Of course, such a law cannot be good, and many in this Chamber would vote differently if they could not have had the customer’s instructions. I can't support this marriage alone. As already stated by my colleague Boštjan Zagorec, we will offer such a law in the Slovenian National Party, which he eventually ordered and offered himself a minister; for all acceptable laws and I hope that there is a broad consensus at the time to support this law, and unfortunately we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Ambassador Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. When we rejected a month ago, the two 1996 laws in force, we were also somehow united by both coalition and opposition MPs that this law should be upgraded. We have had the opportunity to upgrade it with this law that we are voting on today. In my opinion, we have upgraded it from a moral and ethical point of view. Why have we upgraded this marriage poorly? So we're talking about people who have suffered the consequences of asbestos exposure. Despite the fact that the profession warned us that it was specific [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u291	Comrade Germich, if you'll excuse me. Tell me, Comrade Petan, are you kidding me or what? You're watching TV this time when we're discussing patients with asbestos. Please proceed, Comrade Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So we're talking about patients who were exposed to asbestos. And they got sick for the same reason. We separate them into two categories: in the category of those who have received this disease in the workplace, and in those who have not become ill in the workplace, but have the same consequences. It's unacceptable to me. It is also unacceptable that the law makes it clear that the verification of such a disease will be determined by an interdisciplinary group. And in this House, we have not been able to persuade Members to listen to what the government has not done; to listen to those who are concerned, professionally, ill, organised in society or union. We were unable to upgrade and take steps in this direction. Of course, I regret that fact. I regret this fact that we are going to wrong some people today. I hope that we will succeed in correcting this injustice in the near future. I will therefore vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Ambassador Znidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u294	Thank you very much. In my debate on the amendment, I said that, in view of the fact that it is sick or even too early to die from exposure to asbestos, whether the workplace exposure was in a professional sense in the case of workers who worked directly with asbestos or if it happened by accident. That is why I think it would be right for those who did not work with asbestos to have the right to have the same disease as those who came in contact with him in their profession. That is why I think it would be right not to adopt this law because it is flawed and unfair in this respect. That's why I'm gonna have to vote against it. In fact, we had a company like this in our community, but I know the death of a patient who did not work in this company, and as a young man, he suffered accidental exposure to asbestos and his wife never received compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you. And the last on the list to be reported is Comrade Terchón.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We could take a step forward, obviously we'll take a step back. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. In particular, I regret that some of the ruling coalition, which or should be close to them because they also come from such environments that are particularly threatened, have not been able to get out of narrow party interests and listen to these poor people. There's still time to think, and there's still something we can do. The party will not fail, the coalition will not fail, the government will not fail, the country will not fail, and the budget will not fail, in such a sensitive area. You can go to the parade, some canon, and we'll do one good job. Think about when you press the keys, and maybe this would be best for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you. A colleague of Školč signed up for the explanation of the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law myself. I regret, however, that the solidarity which went through all the parties and which I told you a few days ago and where it was not possible to take credit for this law from the client's address. Look, if you look at the vote that led to the situation that we are rejecting the law, which, by the way, brings something good, and at the same time, some people take it, then I would tell you if only three Members coming from an area where this problem is, say Mr Ljubeljšek, Mr Krivec and Mrs Irgl, and one doctor who should understand this difficulty, Mr Tuckati, voted differently, could today adopt a substantially different law and with the consent of all Members. Voting in this House is public and I do not know why you are blushing if we tell the general public that you are giving priority to the client's calculations, but not to the problems that the National Assembly is dealing with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u299	Comrade Skull, you must know for yourself that you have abused the institute of explanations of vote. The Institute is intended to explain its voice and not for controversy or substantive debate. I'm sorry to hurt you. I should stop this discussion first. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I also wanted to point out that there is a great deal of demagogism here. Apparently, it pays off to some. I'll support this marriage myself. I think he's optimal for those who've got asbestos on the job. Of course, we need to be aware that there are many cancerous patients in this country who have been sick for such and other reasons, including the cause of work. This law is not optimal, and it is obvious that it will be necessary to prepare and find a solution to this expansion. And the minister here said yesterday that, within the options available, the government will also consider such a solution. And also because some of you have said that there is no minister here or you miss him, according to our plan, the vote has been scheduled for 20 hours, and I don't know if he's been informed that we're going to vote more than an hour earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u301	In explanation. The National Assembly is an independent branch of power, the Minister is a guest here, he knows about our timetable, and it is his duty to be prepared if he shows interest in it. The practice so far has been that the National Assembly has not waited for ministers to be present, given that they have their representatives in the government. We proceed with the explanation of vote. The word has been given by Ambassador Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will vote against this law and in some way appeal to colleagues and colleagues who are sitting in the coalition majority that, in this case, this last year is indeed an extremely inhuman yes if you say yes to this law. By no means can the argument we heard yesterday by the government be taken into account in this case, that the main argument that it has changed its starting point for the drafting of this law is a financial consequence. Please, with many billions, which we are spending in this country through legislation and other costs, we will not support the disease, which has the only scientific and professional proof that it is indeed a professional disease that there is no doubt about, on the basis of what it comes from. And it's not about enormous numbers, and once again it's nice to you in your own name and on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, please once again, let this one turn into a no and tell the government not today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to explain my voice, but let me tell you, Mr. Sok, demagogia, when we talk about people who are dying, be so honest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u305	Member of the Party, please allow me. Look, we've already told you several times what the voice-explanatory institute contains. I ask that all further debaters, or those who will explain your voice, hold on to this. I can't give Comrade Sok another word, and I won't give it to him. So please, if you don't mention him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you very much. I just wanted to back up and give advice to all those who are actually talking about cheap demagogism, so that it would make sense for those people sitting on the balcony today to look at the face and tell them that it is a cheap demagogy when we talk about their lives. These people are counting the days. She won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u307	Vote explanation, Comrade Saiovic. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. [[...]] Believe me, I'm in a very ungrateful role, too. Allow Members to do their job. Explanation of the vote by Comrade Sayovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Even today, in various opinions, we have found that the law we are considering is not good and is not ideal for revisions. Why, for God's sake, do we rush into bad marriages? Several times this has proved to us that we are not being compensated. The law is not political, it is mainly professional and human. Today we have a unique opportunity to reject it in the coming weeks and months, as the national party suggests. It's time and opportunity to write a better one, especially a more human law. But to all those who support him today, I want you never to test him on your skin. I will oppose the law on my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you. Explanation of voice, Master of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u310	Thank you. In Maribor, too, those who had to deal with asbestos are like those in another Slovenian place. But I'm not going to support this marriage, because I don't think the solutions it brings are good. I am aware that we do not have a regulated attitude towards occupational diseases in Slovenia, and at the time of addressing this law, it has been emphasized that occupational diseases are particularly now, if health professionals are dependent on capital owners, sometimes difficult to identify and do not have a registered occupational disease. The law in force so far is not the best, but it has opened the way for at least reflection on occupational diseases. Let us reject this law, prepare a better one, and open the way to save the lives of those professionally ill with lead, and perhaps with some other harmful agent that begins human health. I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you. The following is an explanation for the vote of Mr Slavinac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you so much for saying that. I've been thinking for a long time about whether to answer and explain my voice or not, because I'm afraid that I won't achieve the benefit that I'd like to get from this bad law. For I am concerned that it is already determined in the future and that the majority will vote as it has been said and as it has always voted. However, I do point out that I will not support this law, and if you cannot vote against it, at least those who come from areas that are at risk do not need to support it. Perhaps that will be enough, perhaps it will be enough not only to provide compensation to the already ill, but also to prevent any new disease and any new tragedy. Think about it and try not to press, as you are told, or not to press at all. And you're going to do a lot of things about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-02-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you, since I no longer see the desire to explain my voice. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour of the law, 34 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this point. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on protection against natural and other disasters. On Tuesday 28.2. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the legal body of the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 10th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the securities market law. On Tuesday, 28.2. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments have not been tabled in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not have been harmonised because of the domestic working body of the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
