ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! It's nine and two minutes, which means we have to get to work. We begin the continuation of the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Slavko Gaber, Aleš Gulič, Ferri Horvat, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Bojan Kontič, Breda Pecan, Jakob Presečnik, Villa Rezman, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Alojz Sok. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Call Qualifications. We've got 40 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the Family and Social Affairs of Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	I welcome all Members and Members of Parliament! A brief introduction to amendments and additions to the National Professional Qualifications Act. The fundamental objective of this proposal is to ensure that the labour market needs can be adapted more quickly in line with basic European guidelines, then the reliability and quality of verification and the validation of knowledge, evaluation and recognition of competence, by supporting tools that also ensure the quality of evaluation in educational institutions. So, new credits, ensuring the externality of checking and certifying national professional qualifications through uniform procedures, transparency and simplicity of documents and simplicity. The system, as it is in Europe, is being built up. This is also the case with Slovenia. The fundamental principles that we apply to this law are the principle of the integration of formal and informal education and work experience, the principle of partnership, as partners participate in the development of national professional qualifications and promotions, the transferability between different fields and levels of education, namely transition, the principle of transparency and transparency over the implementation of procedures, certification, ensuring uniformity of verification and certification procedures at national level, thereby replacing the nomenclature of professions. Instead of the nomenclature of professions, a professional standard is established with content agreed in the general European professional public. We are implementing common European instruments. We are therefore opening up systemic paths for the enforcement of these common instruments. These are in particular: credit evaluation of professional standards and professional catalogues, European passport and national Slovenian Qualifications Framework, extended partnership, not only chambers, but also Associations of Employers of Slovenia, Associations of Employers of Commercial Activities of Slovenia, professional associations, NGOs, trade unions, higher education institutions, competent ministries. Everyone is involved in this partnership. However, the law brings some vital news. So this novel upgrades professional qualifications to VII. the degree of complexity. The bill gives all powers in this area to universities as autonomous educational institutions. The role of partners is extended and defined in the Sectoral Professional Standards Committees, where the development of professional skills and the acquisition of qualifications is defined as the common interest of employers and employees. In order to ensure the fairness of evaluation and transparency, the externality of verification takes care of the recruitment or bank of issues and tasks of the state examination centre, which will in future take care of the development and expansion of a network for the verification and certification of professional qualifications. At the same time, the register will be maintained. Under the previous rules, members of the committees proposed chambers and trade unions. Now, the members of the committees shall be assembled on the basis of a public invitation to tender, except for military professions. The credit assessment of the catalogue shall establish an interlinkage between the education and employment systems. The national qualification framework shall establish a link between education and qualifications in accordance with the national qualification framework. This procedure is also laid down in this procedure for the destruction or loss of the certificate of professional standards. Effects, positive effects for the country: improving the qualification structure, reducing structural mismatch, transparency of professional qualifications, promoting social partnership, reducing social exclusion. For individuals, however, this reduction in social exclusion, as well as the verification of the skills, skills and abilities already acquired, new opportunities for career development, improved competitiveness and mobility in the national and European labour market, increased employability, the challenge for more difficult workers and individuals, and increased motivation for further learning. For the economy, however, there is an improvement in the qualification structure, an increased quality of work. Competitiveness, company advantage, rapid response to needs are increasing, easier and cheaper to obtain qualifications for workers. This is a brief summary of the news as well as the direction of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! The mother's working body was dealt with at the 19th regular meeting of 5.10. A proposal for a law was submitted to the members of the Committee, as follows from the publication in the Rapporteur and the legislative and legal opinion and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities. The representative of the Ministry, Madam Secretary of State, presented to the members of the committee the purpose of the law, as we have just heard, so I will not repeat. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the law in question and has also made comments on Articles 21, 26 from a legislative and technical point of view. In its opinion, the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities supports the bill. In a short discussion on the individual articles of the amendment proposal, the Committee drafted and adopted its amendments to Article 3, the two amendments to Article 5, the amendment to Article 14, the three amendments to Article 21 and the amendment to Article 26. All of this contains a complementary proposal for a law that is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State and Minister. The position of the Member Group of Social Democrats on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Professional Qualifications is obtained by agreement of the Group of Members. So we will not oppose the law. Because knowledge is a central value for the Social Democrats, which will in the future also decisively interfere with the placement of a country within the European Union and global competitiveness. The theory of lifelong education is acceptable to all who are involved in any decision-making on the educational process. It is true, however, that this law builds upon the system with the documentary evidence of the merger of formal and informal education. Therefore, for the Social Democrats, what is, of course, simply, so to speak, the editorial nature, where the nomenclature of professions is replaced by a professional standard, is essential to Article 3 which speaks of the way in which national professional qualifications are acquired. In this article, in the case of formal forms of professional qualifications, it is also very important that those who are covered in the fifth indent speak of an individual being able to obtain professional qualifications, even if he proves that he is achieving the skills set out in the catalogue adopted in accordance with this Act. This does not, however, allow him to obtain a professional qualification that would be aligned by a charter with a formal form of a publicly valid educational or study programme. However, it may also acquire appropriate professional qualifications in the process if it reaches the prescribed standards of knowledge in the catalogue. The Social Democrats are also duly resolved in this law by the exchange of functions between the Professional and Professional Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education. The latter has specific tasks which are of both professional and technical nature. In addition, in order to ensure control over the achievement of the quality of professional and professional knowledge, it is important that the institution which will interfere with the external verification of the achievement of professional qualifications and knowledge standards is the State Examination Centre. As it is said, we believe that this law is, as the proponent says, an upgrade to the law on higher and higher vocational education because it interferes with the seventh level of education. It is true, however, that this law may make it easier for those whom we consider to be destitute according to previous procedures, because, for personal or other objective reasons, they left education before they were able to obtain an appropriate professional qualification. In addition to those emerging for such reasons, it is, of course, possible to build up professional knowledge standards by returning to the education process in a way that will make the individual more competitive in the labour market. As it is said, the Social Democrats' parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Master Franz Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament. We live in a time where knowledge in society becomes an exclusion category number 1. The word "you know more, you're more valid" is now a constant of today and tomorrow. In the knowledge society, those who do not step in with him will be quickly eliminated. The responsibility for knowledge is increasingly passed from society to individuals, so lifelong learning is a necessity today. For successful work in the workplace today, formal education is no longer sufficient, but informal education in the form of different seminars, courses and workshops is increasingly important. The proposed amendments to the law before us today are based on the link between formal and informal education and an adequate evaluation of this knowledge. Thus, catalogues of professional standards will be credited according to the European Credit Point System, which will also be known in the education system. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Professional Qualifications will be the basis for the preparation of professional standards and catalogues of professional standards and skills in which a nomenclature of professions will be established. The proposal for a law is still coordinating the tasks of the Council of Experts as a starting point for the preparation of educational programmes. Some of the Ministry's tasks are transferred to the State Audit Centre. Following the solutions of the bill, greater mobility of workers and comparability of education will be ensured with those of the other Member States of the European Union. In addition, in New Slovenia, we expect the law to contribute to the realization of the trend towards lifelong education. The law was coordinated among partners in the economic and social world, so we will also support it in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you, too. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on National Professional Qualifications is a kind of technical law by which the Republic of Slovenia essentially adapts to the European Union's common guidelines for labour market flexibility. Its purpose is, in fact, to focus on the Lisbon strategy, both from the educational point of view and from this emerging classification of professions by catalogue in relation to acquired expertise. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. It is also because the draft law has held the necessary debate in the Economic and Social Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by the mag. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The substance of the amendments to the National Professional Qualifications Act is compliance with European legal frameworks, more precisely defined procedures for formal evaluation of informally acquired skills, work and intellectual skills, experience. Even those recognised by operators of informally approved educational programmes, not to mention personal knowledge and skills acquired in professional, business or non-governmental activities. Education has become a fundamental economic factor. It recognises the role of economic and social policy integration and becomes an instrument for the development of a competitive economy, social inclusion and development of each individual. Today's and above all future challenges in lifelong learning require the creation of a new culture of verification and validation of skills and skills acquired outside the formal education system and the recognition of those in the formal labour market system. The findings in Europe show that standards have often become too narrow and do not include knowledge acquired outside the school. The needs of individuals who gain new knowledge and competences in the light of lifelong learning are placed at the centre. The flexible system allows them to upgrade qualifications and competences and transfer them to new environments where they are recognised in the form of credit points in the education system and better payment in the labour market. In this way, the law in the whole country will bring improved qualification structures, reduction of structural mismatches, transparency of professional qualifications and so on. The main objectives of the proposed amendments are at least, in my opinion, to provide, evaluate and assess and recognise competences, then to ensure the externality of verification and validation. The proposed amendments follow the principle of the integration of formal and informal education and work experience. Greater support is technological development, the structure of work. Qualifications shall be extended to all areas of expertise. The Law on Professional Standards, on Professional Catalogues, on mechanisms and procedures for formal recognition of professional knowledge and skills acquired outside officially certified educational bases is, in my opinion, an opportunity to invite everyone to formalise their skills. Notice that knowledge is acquired and can be formally recognized throughout life, in all ages, both at work and with self-learning and study. Modern form enables distance learning, knowledge verification and even validation. Media should be much better represented on the opportunity to adopt legislation. Today on the radio, I have not heard any mention of the adoption of the amendment of this law, especially this topic. This could be advice, warning and guidance to all who feel that formal education is not important, now they can formalize their knowledge in the long term and better protect their knowledge. However, this is an opportunity to inform the public of the importance of continuing lifelong learning and of regulated pan-European qualified certification, to obtain, in fact, equivalent formal education outside formal educational establishments. And my opinion on the monitoring of certificates, their loss, damage, destruction and alienation. All proposed and legislative services have been commented on by the modern use of computers for telecommunications information infrastructure solutions to be transmitted to outside the classic paper media in electronic form. The Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, for example, is already operating this way. Today, through authentication into the certificate database, it can be viewed and verified electronically or via the Internet. Documents or certificates on paper media shall be electronic, electronically certified [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the originality or authenticity of the certificates shall be carried out in the same way as in similar banking and other sensitive views. [[...]] The Slovenian Democratic Party will be happy to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 November, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 20. Agenda item - This is a second defence proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the rights of deceased and disabled former military insurers. We've got 40 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Secretary of State Mrs. Marjetka Cotman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members. Slovenia regulates the rights of former military pensioners. Under the law on pension and invalidity insurance of former military insurers. Under this law, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were also able to obtain, inter alia, the right to a military pension from the Slovenian State Budget, which was limited to a maximum of 5 years of age or retirement on 18 October 1991 in order to fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to a pension under military regulations and which had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 18 October 1991. In doing so, the insurance period was supplemented by military regulations, taken into account as an insurance period, which was stayed at the Slovenian Institute. In practice, it turned out that the law did not cover cases where pension rights under general rules were exercised by former military insurers who applied for Slovenian citizenship under Section 40 of the Citizenship Act, but their applications were resolved for a very long time. In April 2004, the Constitutional Court decided that, if they had fulfilled the conditions for obtaining a pension under the general rules prior to its entry into force, the law should also recognise the right to a pension as a last resort from the fulfilment of the conditions. Since the right to a pension was granted only after 1.1.1998, such beneficiaries remained for the past 7 years or less without any pension. This violated Article 50 of the Constitution, which referred to the right to social security and Article 33 of the Constitution relating to the right to private property. The Constitutional Court has therefore found that the law should also grant beneficiaries the right to a pension back all from the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining a pension under general rules, but not only from 1.1.1998 when this law entered into force. In accordance with this Constitutional Court judgment, we propose that the law should be amended to allow former officers of the JLA or military service, when he was missing for a maximum of 5 years of age or pension periods on 18 October 1991 in order to meet the conditions for obtaining a pension under military regulations and then had a permanent residence in Slovenia, a pension shall be paid under the general rules from the date of fulfilment of the conditions, unless it has been insured or since the first day of the following month following the cessation of active military service or insurance at the institution, but no later than 18 October 1991. The pension shall be paid according to the law on pension and disability insurance. The text in force at the time the beneficiary met the conditions. In order to fulfil the condition and to determine the amount of the pension, account shall be taken of the whole pension period, including periods in the former JLA, as if it had been achieved in the institution. The calculation of the pension base shall take into account, for years, the flat-rate basis of the way and position of the beneficiary in the active military service. The beneficiary shall be paid monthly instalments of as much remunerated pensions as they would be paid for all months from the acquisition of the right after this amendment to 1.1.1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. The bill was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, for a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This bill was also discussed by the Committee at its 19th meeting, 5.10. The Committee was informed of the material itself, as a proposal for a law and the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which did not comment on the law in question. The opinion was given in accordance with Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the proposal for a law was examined, but the proposal was so prepared that it was not necessary to interfere with it in the view of the legislature. With regard to conduct, the members of the Committee raised in the debate the issue of the recognition of legitimate late interest on time since the acquisition of the right after this novel, the question of equality of treatment of individual beneficiaries, which also remained for a certain period after Slovenia's independence in the Slovenian Army and the issue of widow's pension for military insurers. With regard to those issues, the representative of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office said that the institution recognised, in accordance with the Constitution, only nominal amounts without late interest. With regard to the recognition of the pension age to individual beneficiaries, however, he said that it was recognised in accordance with the laws in force at the time when the right was exercised. The Committee has not adopted any amendments. Therefore, the proposal for a law on plenary decision-making is also the same as that which has been sent to the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague, Franz Capuder, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In 2004, the Constitutional Court found that the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers in a certain part was not in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had prepared amendments to this Act. In our Group of Members, we support these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Fast and efficient. Next, colleague Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	By the law in question, the proposer practically follows the commitment he received from the Constitutional Court decision. This has drawn on its decision under Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that, even after the establishment of the new State, the rights of users of military pensions with permanent residence of the Republic of Slovenia shall be protected to the extent and under the conditions laid down by it in the rules of the SFRJ. Thus, the law in question practically merely sums up what we have committed ourselves to by constitutional law and corrects the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Court decision in the basic law. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have no reservations about not supporting the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. Comrade Zmigo Jelinčič will give the position of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have given much thought to this law in the Slovenian National Party. In the first place again due to the strange attitudes or attitudes of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has proved to be more than just citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They are now concerned in the Constitutional Court's decision by those officers of the Yugoslav People's Army, who also fought against the Republic of Slovenia. After the break-up of the SFRY, the successors must, in accordance with the principles of success of the countries, assume liabilities from insurance to insured persons according to the criteria of nationality of the insured person to the successor State. That's not what the other countries did. In particular, this has not been done by Croatia. However, given that it is only here that this decision is based on, that it is either citizenship or residence in the Republic of Slovenia, it means that the pension now can be obtained for fighting the Republic of Slovenia by Aksentijevic and, for example, by Mr Marko Perak, for whom the witnesses have declared. One witness: "When I realized that the position at the Holmec border crossing had already been occupied by the members of the TO and the militia, despite calls after surrender, issued an order to fire. Two of our militiamen were killed in this fight. There were more wounded. And he was wounded too, it seems, this touched Perak." This was confessed by Witness Halilović or by Witness Pogorelc: "The guys told me that in Beerka his weapon was to kill everyone, so he was transferred to another room on my orders. And we put a guard in front of our wounded boys' room because we were afraid for their lives. That's when they were in the hospital together." And this man will get a pension for this after the Constitutional Court's decision. He was granted citizenship in 2002 when Mr Bohinc and his family gave him this, and now they will get this. I do not know how meaningful it is and if it is good for the Republic of Slovenia to go bowing to the left, right, up and down despite the constitutional court ruling on this, but the composition of the Constitutional Court is known. It is logical that this Constitutional Court operates more on the basis of the former brotherhood and unity than on the basis of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, there is a question for various so-called deleted, so-called officers who also fought on other fronts throughout Yugoslavia. Like Bosnia, Croatia, Serbia, what I know, what else. In Herzegovina and these people will now receive a pension in the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, the beautiful Republic of Slovenia cares wonderfully for everyone but its people. The Slovenian national party to this law, despite the fact that the decision is being corrected in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, will not be supported. I think it's something else to take care of your citizens than to take care of everything. We don't have enough money to throw him out the window. However, it seems that there is still a shadow of Mr Bohinc who wanted to give his citizenship to everyone. On the basis of this, there is this kind of, I would say, perseverance, some cycle of perseverance, but Slovenia is not doing well. I don't think that's right. I think these people are actually raising their heads more and more. Now it's actually even lawsuits, as if some Slovenian officials had sinned because they told the truth, and similar things. I think that in the first place we should examine all citizenship, confuse some, those who fought against Slovenia, out, punish those gentlemen who gave them citizenship - here goes to a large extent in my opinion for Mr Bohinec, who has long and far shared it - and regulate the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the legal norms of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Franc Žnidaršič to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The democratic party of pensioners is the last to dispute with the Constitutional Court on the decision. That's why we're going to support this marriage, and we think it's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	The position of the SDS Group will be presented by counterpart Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The new law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers was made on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which corrects the wrongs committed in the past. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	And Member Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We will support the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. The proposal follows a decision by the Constitutional Court, which finds that it was unlawfully resolved in the law in force because they obtained the right to a pension only 6 months ago, and not from the date of fulfilment of the general conditions. In doing so, we would like to stress that they are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that they are equal in rights with all others and that, in our belief, the Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the rule of law must be respected, regardless of who thinks they are. We point out, however, two questions that we have already discussed on the working body and which, according to our assessment, may give rise to a new constitutional assessment. One question raised by the chairman of the committee is the payment of pensions in nominal amounts 10 years ago and several years ago. I would like to point out that these nominal amounts today amount to 13 times less for 1991 than they were actually worth at the time, for 1992 4.44 times less, for the year 1003 2.96 times less and so on until 1997, when this was one and a half times less. Does it seem to us that the payment in the nominal amount is at the fault of the State for 15 years that this has not been paid, right or wrong? Let it be judged. The majority opinion in the parent body was that this was appropriate. There were no concerns in the legislative and legal service either. I am simply pointing this out, and I think that this time too, for ideological reasons, we behave differently to our citizens and that this is not good. Especially since this is not a material issue, all of this is based on the information provided by the government for 17 people. What is even more questionable to me, however, is the fact that our legislation, namely the amendments and additions to the pension and disability insurance law we adopted in July 2005, does not recognise the widow's pensions as being granted to the widows of these insured persons. These are also our citizens, usually living in Slovenia for a decade. They were protected under the previous rules, just as they were with everyone else. The State of Slovenia has prevented them from applying their widow's pension only because they are widows after former military insurers. I think it's a question that shows special consideration. Therefore, in some of the letters I have received in this regard, I have also proposed to the Government that it assess whether the solutions formally adopted are such and we cannot blame the pension and disability insurance institution for issuing decisions such as it does. That's repulsive. However, it is to be judged. Otherwise, I believe that the affected will probably also trigger a constitutional dispute in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	You, too. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to this bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 November, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister and Secretary of State for his participation. And among us is Minister Beast with a co-worker, welcome. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on graduation. I hereby inform you that we have two hours and 20 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. That's why I give my word to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Beast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present the amendment of the law on graduation at the plenary session of the National Assembly. I'll be brief. I would like to stress only the key changes that the novelty brings. The first set of amendments relates to the fact that we are introducing two exam dates of the general graduation, both in addition to the spring autumn deadline. After the current law on graduation in the fall, the students were unable to resume their entire graduation. They had to wait all year for this, thus losing an important part of their life span. The fact is that Slovenia has also responded to repeated calls from the European Commission and other associations calling for OECD countries to change systemic legislation and the regulatory environment in this direction in order to minimise the so-called 'drop-out'. I hope that this amendment of the novel will contribute to lower rashes in Slovenian secondary schools. To date, students have also been unable to improve their grades from a particular graduate class. The improvement of assessments is particularly important and interesting because it is still in place in a system such as a point system with a selection function. Now, as long as such a system is in force, they will have it available. They may perform the final exam at all times within two years of the first correction of the entire graduation, four times in general, and six times in professional life. These are also two contributions to reducing rash. A key change in this part or in this part is that the fall deadline is totally equivalent to spring. The second set, however, concerns certain amendments and supplements for the implementation of the graduation. For example, the possibility of proper monitoring of the results, the identification of the graduation methodology across schools and so on. The third set deals with the harmonisation and complementing of criminal and supervisory provisions aimed at ensuring more effective supervision of the graduation, more adequate protection of documents and data that are test confidentiality, and so on. As you know, there have been some irregularities in the last year or two. I hope that, in the coming months, we will address this irregularity, including by amending the sub-legislative rules based on this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! At its 18th regular session, on 5 October, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on graduation and endorsed it in a uniform manner. The reason for this was the common assessment of everyone present that this is an important shift, that it is a solution that is clearly in favour of the younger generation and that will make an important contribution to the smaller rash and improve the success of Slovenian education. That this assessment was truly uniform, let me also mention the opinion of the members of the Committee, former Minister Gabra, who expressed his admiration for this law by saying that this is something they did not hope for, but they consider very positive. During its consideration, the Committee adopted four additional amendments. They are all mainly editorial in nature, meaning to clarify the text. Then, as it is said, he unitedly supported the text of the law in such a complementary form. I propose to the National Assembly that this law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for amendments to the law on graduation. We are also of the opinion that changes to education and education rules must be adopted quickly and in time so that changes can be made for the next season or school year. Welcome amendments to this law bring forth Article 4 of the novel proposal, which allows multiple full graduations, since the current decree of Article 24 of the current law is not clear on the possibility of managing the entire graduation more than once. Also welcome are the amendments to Article 6 of the amendment, which allow candidates who have successfully completed their graduation in the spring for the revision of the evaluation already in autumn, since this solution increases the possibility of candidates to be described in the desired higher education programme in the same school year. In the Slovenian People's Party, it is also very appropriate for us to repeal the provisions of Articles 41 and 42 of the current law, which allowed for the re-implementation of negative grade subjects within three consecutive probation periods, and for the new authorisation of the performance, the correction of the examinations in all exam periods within two years, for which the candidate must complete the graduation. This will certainly enable a faster completion of education. We also agree that the methodology for monitoring the quality of graduation should not lead to the classification of schools, which is a typical example of misrepresentation of the quality of school work and is also abandoned in the UK, for example, where this classification was first introduced in Europe. In this respect, the LDS amendment to Article 2 was adopted on the Education Committee. We will also support the amendments of the Committee following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendment to Article 5, which define more clearly the deadlines in which a candidate who performs the graduation in two parts for reasons must submit an application and provide relevant evidence. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the proposed amendments to the law on graduation, because we believe that they improve the basic law and define more clearly the hands and the way and enable a faster completion of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you, too. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Basic Law entered into force on 1 March 2003, and in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on graduation is meaningful and necessary. It ensures a level playing field for all candidates in both probationary periods. What is very important is the equalisation of the possibility of holding a graduation in all possible combinations and in both probationary periods, which is certainly the most favourable for candidates. A more effective organisation for the implementation and adoption of the results of the graduation is also increasing or improving. It bothers us, however, that, in fact, the proposed novel on graduation prohibits in some way the publication, the classification of schools by graduation results. Which, of course, is not good, especially because both children and parents decide to put the child in a better school on the basis of what can be seen in the public eye. This is an indicator of the success of the graduation period, the way the school works. Furthermore, I, as well as the client, have been disturbed by this and this is one of the biggest shortcomings in this law, which, of course, we will try to correct later. I was counting on the Ministry's reasonableness to see this happen now. But it is a fact that it is very badly taken care of by the blind and the visually impaired. On 13 June 2006, I myself gave a written initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which I remind it that there is a great backlog in the standardisation of mathematical characters in a Braille and, of course, also a lack of material. This is incomprehensible at a time when computer science and modern electronics are so developed that, in fact, we can in some way offer these affected equal access to the material of the university. And of course we are also reminded of this by parents who have been struck twice in some way because blind and visually impaired people are not treated as people who would be recognized as motionlessly obstructed persons. And that's not good. If we proposed a change of law, we could take that into account. In particular, because, as I have seen, we also allocate very large funds to these textbooks, of course, to three different organisations, who probably spend it more on salaries than on actually targeted material or actual realization of what these revenues receive. Dear Minister, I would ask you to tighten this surveillance to fill this void. Otherwise, we assess in the Slovenian National Party that the law has been adopted meaningfully and that it is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law was sent to the legislative hearing by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we can only commend such a rapid response to the issue of last-grading, as some of the provisions of the law in practice have proved to be inconsistent and inadequate. The Novela shall address such a systemic deficiency and follow the principle of equality and equal opportunities for candidates to end their graduation. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we agree with the proposed elimination of formal barriers, which prevented students and students from having the same opportunities to hold a graduation in both spring and autumn periods. The students and students will then have the opportunity to perform multiple exams, a single exam. They will be able to correct the individual examination in the event of a negative assessment. They will also be able to improve or correct the assessments achieved within both time limits. We also support changes relating to the provisions of organisational nature, as they will ensure a more effective organisation and implementation of the graduation. This year's graduation also violated the test confidentiality principle, resulting in the proposal amending the provisions relating to the supervision of the implementation of the law. It defines in more detail the offences, the perpetrators and the higher fines. All these changes provide for more efficient organisation and implementation of the graduation and supervision of documents and data that are test confidentiality. They are directed around the students and they mean equalizing their position. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we also support such changes, which address the shortcomings in practice. The DeSUS Members support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the national communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! The amendment of the law will ensure the same conditions in the course of the general graduation of all candidates within both probationary deadlines. A new fundamental principle will be established. In particular, all candidates will be equal in terms of the possibility of holding a graduation or individual examinations of a general diploma in both probationary periods. It will also be possible for all candidates to be able to perform both the general and the professional diploma more than once, either by correcting the negative assessment, improving the positive assessment or re-run of the entire graduation. Other additions would increase or improve the formal framework for more efficient organisation and implementation and monitoring of the results of both general and professional graduations. However, it is also intended to ensure more proper supervision of the graduation. This refers to ensuring better protection of documents and data that are test confidentiality at graduation. Also through preventive measures such as the organisation of internal control for all graduates and the sanctioning of liability for offences related to the suspension of adequate protection of the probationary secrecy. We're assessing the law as good, so we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with a coworker! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed amendments to the law on graduation, which are for the benefit of the students and students. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party drew attention to the inequality of all candidates at the time of the adoption of the law in 2003. The amendment of the law removes formal obstacles which prevented all candidates for the general graduation from having the same opportunity to hold a graduation in both probationary periods. The amendment removes obstacles within the framework of the general objectives of education and education, towards the integrated development of an individual as a cultural, creative, moral, labour, social and ecologically-aware entity, which under conditions of equal opportunity acquires knowledge, virtues and competences for successful action in the social environment. The first and most important set of changes when we talk about general graduation is the introduction of the second deadline, the autumn deadline of the general graduation. This ensures the same conditions for all candidates to be eligible within both probationary deadlines. In this way, they should establish a new basic principle of the law on graduation, so that all candidates are equal in terms of the possibility of holding a graduation or individual examinations of a general degree in both probationary periods. And also that all candidates are allowed to perform both the general and the professional graduation several times. Whether to correct negative assessments or perform the whole graduation again. Article 6 of the novel allows candidates who have successfully completed the graduation already in the spring to be able to participate in the desired higher education programme in the same school year in the autumn. Articles allowing up to twice the duration of negative grades within only three consecutive exam periods shall be deleted. After the new implementation of the negative assessment of graduations, it will be possible within all the probationary deadlines within two years. This, in particular, allows older candidates to complete their education more quickly. The second set of amendments concerns some organisational implementation solutions to the graduation, a solution to the problem raised by the information officer when it was necessary to publish the results of the graduation on the basis of her decision. The applicant is trying to determine a methodology, namely what is actually meant to be given or what is intended to be given information on the quality of a high school graduation. The quality will be determined in accordance with the methodology to be set by the Minister at the proposal of the two State Junior Commissions. The statistical data on the results will be thus processed to reflect the actual situation in relation to all key quality indicators and will also be addressed in the framework of the annual graduation reports. Those data can then be used primarily for the preparation of expert analyses and appropriate measures related to the graduation. On the basis of our amendment, the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which we will discuss later, provides for a more appropriate legal basis for the public publication of the results of the quality of the graduation in the direction of the information officer's already mentioned decision. The amendment proposes that data from the annual analysis on the quality of graduation should not be used for the classification of schools. The third set of amendments concerns the harmonisation and complementing of criminal supervision provisions, effective supervision of the graduation is introduced in order to ensure better protection of documents and data that are test confidentiality at graduation, including through some preventive measures. On the basis of these important improvements for the benefit of the students and students, we will therefore support the amendment of the law on graduation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Minister with an escort, colleagues and colleagues. It is known that LDS was the mother of school legislation, so we are extremely sensitive to its changes and additions, but today we have something that we support. We give recognition to the proposer because the area is being properly upgraded and he has succeeded in reaching agreement with the graduation committee on the elimination of formal obstacles that have so far been faced by candidates and candidates for graduation. In this way, the prom will follow its basic logic to a greater extent, that knowledge is considered primarily in front of the graduation institute. If you have it, you can show it if you do not have it, the graduation will alert you to the need for further training and will offer you the opportunity to reexamine. We also welcome the return years ago to the already tested post-graduate system within the autumn deadline and expect that the monitoring of the results of the graduation will also be adequately regulated and we will also support the supplement that adequately complements the addition of our Member, Dr Slavko Gabra. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to conclude with the thought that this law could be taken in the event of a meaningful upgrade of the existing school system. The LDS Club would be pleased to look for possible upgrades in other areas as well. We, in particular, will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Ambassador Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister and Mr Director. We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the law on graduation. The general graduation, which began for the whole generation for the first time in 1995, received its law in 2003, which means that the law also grew from the experience of both the performers and those who attended the graduation since 1995. It is true, however, that some of the weaknesses in graduation have called for an intervention in the law on graduation and because it is a matter of improving the applicable law, which is the result of practical experience, we support in the Group of Social Democrats. It is important to say that the law speaks both of general and of professional graduation, but there are some differences and also of different traditions. However, it will not be so easy if the Ministry prepares more extensive amendments to the law on graduation, which can be read about in public opinion. However, the changes we are talking about now are such that they are in line with the fundamental principles and objectives set by the implementation of the general graduation. This one is that all candidates have to perform their graduation under the same conditions. A change referring to the equalisation of the conditions in the spring and autumn periods for all types of graduations is said either to be a full or two-part graduation, or to an individual exam from the graduation or to improve the evaluation, but leaves one question open in particular for the fall graduation period. Due to the time limit, it will not be possible to carry out a written examination on the same day for all candidates. This means introducing a number of sets, but we can always find ourselves in the face of the question of whether all exams are in fact completely equivalent. This is also the reason why some of the solutions so far have been somewhat slower and more doubtful than with complete approval. However, when it comes to weighing what the acquisitions of this decision are, these amendments, in order to enable the candidate to perform the examination which improves the assessment, already in autumn, to mention at least this possibility, which is in one of the mandatory subjects, is essential in Slovenian. This is the fact that the candidate is taking an exam from the thematic set that was prescribed for that year and does not need to be particularly prepared for a new thematic set that he should manage if he wants to improve his assessment in the spring of the next school year. We also support changes in the quality monitoring of graduation. All those changes in the law on graduation related to exam secrecy violations seem even more appropriate. We believe that it is necessary to ensure that those who perform either a general or a professional degree are in fact equal conditions, and these are also linked to the fact that they do not leak any test data to the public before it is permitted. The appropriate penalties provided for will also tighten the supervision of the implementation of the graduation. As we say, we will support the law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. As far as the amendments are concerned, we'll talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	Hello, everyone! The new law on graduation provides more favourable conditions for graduates in terms of flexibility in the performance of probationary obligations, increases the number of deadlines, and defines the competences of professional institutions more precisely. However, the amendment of the law is intended to provide greater control over documents and data in order not to give rise to a breach of the test confidentiality. The amendment makes it possible for all candidates to graduate in the autumn as well as for candidates who failed in the spring or who have only partially completed the graduation, as well as for those who want to improve. The number of exam periods shall be increased within two years and the full graduation shall be resumed after two years. These changes make it possible for students to complete their secondary education cycle more successfully and more quickly, as well as to engage more rapidly in the work process or further education. Effective control and organisation of documents and data, which are test confidentiality, should ensure that abuses in this area do not occur in the future. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. We are finished with the presentations on the positions of the groups. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments of 26.10. So, we have in our consideration Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group. I am opening the application procedure, so those you wish to discuss in connection with this Article and the amendment, please sign in. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will, or I will support this amendment, of course. I think it makes sense that some measurement on a bunch of educational laws is not used to start sorting schools from first to third, fourth, and so on. It would be similar if, on the basis of the success of some operations, we could sort out hospitals, but this is a criterion that has only one vat and no one else can be extremely unfair. This is also true in schools, especially because not all schools are on the same level as students enrolled. We know some schools, even in urban environments, where super-breeders are enrolled because they have very high entry levels, and some schools that have just recently started picking up people from the rural environment, because otherwise they would never go to high school, and they certainly don't have the same basics as these. And that's why I'm going to support this amendment. He makes sense and he's good. However, I would also like to take a moment to take this opportunity to draw your attention, Mr Minister, also to what is concerned with this law, because there is no problem that would be very nice - I am using the rules of procedure, because I cannot come to you from you - if even for what you were responsible for in your ministry, the Law on Mountain Routes, we were trying to prepare amendments as soon as possible. It'll be almost a year. People are dying. Thus, the ministry, which sends us such laws, is unable to do so, I doubt, and I also call on you to do so in this area, as in the field of the law on graduation, as well as in the field of the law, as you are under the responsibility of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you, too. The Minister of the Beast has signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	If you get up, please continue in practice and in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thanks for the heads-up. Dear Member, we will certainly prepare what is necessary with regard to mountain routes. I am also one of those deserving that this law remains in the process of your first signature and I will see if the matter remains with us or perhaps another government department. As far as your amendment is concerned, I can say that I fully agree with the content of this amendment's communication, but the amendment is somewhat harsh and the dictatorship is not the most nominally appropriate. It is a matter of conflict with another right and freedom in the public eye, so it is right to write perhaps a little more goods but a message equally rich amendments. In fact, it is not possible or very manipulative to publish rankings of schools based on achievement at the graduation. We would like such analyses to be more comprehensive, thorough and to take into account other criteria, and in particular some added value that the student receives during training and education. This year we will prepare a system of indicators for individual types of education for individual institutions. Such comprehensive assessments will, of course, give a clearer, objective picture. However, the success of graduation is certainly not an objective indicator of the value and performance of secondary schools. It can cover up the real quality of the school many times. Someone who has already received a high-level high school degree and brings him to a high-end high school graduation may mean this significantly lower additional value than those who receive, forgive the term, "double" or "troker" and bring him also to a profession or graduation, even a general graduation or even to an extremely good graduation. In short, we also want this matter to be regulated in some way until we have a comprehensive model of quality indicators. I expect this model to be designed soon, so I would rather support another amendment, which says so, the data from the annual analysis on the quality of graduation should not be used to classify schools. I think this would lead to a minor conflict with some other interest in the right to information of the public and would not directly deprive the public of the right to such information. Thank you very much. This amendment has been tabled [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you. Someone else wants to discuss it, then I have to open a new application circuit. Please sign in. Thank you, Mrs. Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you. I will support the amendment tabled by three coalition parties and intervened in the new 18a. an article which is a preinterpretation of a similar amendment, with similar aspirations as we have adopted on the Committee and of which you, Mr Minister, spoke when you identified a conflict with the law on access to information of a public nature. We have also seen in public publications that data on the performance of candidates and candidates at the graduation are information of a public nature, and here comes the first problem for me to resist, on the basis of publicly available information on the performance of individuals and individual schools at the graduation, that these published data would not be subject to different interpretations and subject of classifications. That is why I felt it was right on the committee to support the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club, that the methodology should not lead to any form of classification - the publication methodology should not lead to any form of school classification and that the publication of the classification of schools is prohibited. In fact, what it means now is that it is forbidden to publish the classification of schools, but if it is absolutely clear from the publicly published data on the performance of the school at the graduation that, given the final number of secondary schools in Slovenia, this classification is made and can be done quickly by each individual if he wishes to do so in his own interest. Therefore, I think that the new directive of the proposed amendment to this danger, at least as regards the legal conflict that speaks of the ban on the publication of the classification of schools, is slightly softened, but I do not think that if I look at the effects of this amendment, even though the data from the annual analysis on the quality of graduation should be used to classify schools. They can't. This simply means that schools will not be classified from 1st to 50th, either by alphabetical order or by congregations in which they are, in alphabetical order, as the congregations are classified. This is now a question of how, in the end, if this data is published, it will still be possible to get to what can lead to classification after success. And that's actually a kind of paradox. Let me explain why. As long as I have been monitoring the graduation, as well as the developments concerning external verification in primary school, the fundamental observation of all this verification is the fight for points. That is to say, an extremely plausible attitude, as it is called, but in the end, if we are to determine whether someone has done or has failed, how successful he has been in doing so, some way of determining success must be determined. Whether this is a numerical estimate of 1 to 5 or whether this is a numerical estimate of 1 to 10, or whether these are points that are also classified and also require certain degrees of achievement to be considered as opportunities for continuing education. This, after all, is when we think from the point of view of the stress of the exam, etc. However, when parents decide which school their child or youth will be enrolled in, the data on school performance is extremely important to them. However, this information often grows out of performance in different forms or in different forms of external verification. I believe that this is not an appropriate indicator of the quality of a school because of the fact that students or students with the same personality and competences are not enrolled in a school. However, when they are so very different, the first year at some level of education is aimed at equating the input skills they come with. And if I'm coming out, say, from the experience of a school that's been shown by nine-year-olds or, rather, eight-year-olds to enroll in it, you had to be great at being accepted, but in the end, this school did sort students from a failed to the most successful student. It is true that in these schools they have easily achieved 100% success in the course of their graduation. One of the signs may also be how many golden graduates there were at such a school. And as an interesting thing to say to you, when I was the president of one of the Republic's general-graduate committees, and when I was also a member of the Republic's senior committee for a while, the greatest interest was always in terms of how many golden graduates there are. However, I was still very interested in the gender relationship among golden graduates, even more so since it was already known that Slovenia was no different from all others, so the Slovenian school system and performance is no different than in the school systems of other European countries, which means that girls are inappropriately or noticeably more successful than boys, and I was always interested in how golden graduates are scattered across Slovenia. And I have always found with great satisfaction that they are scattered all over Slovenia, but it is true that from some parts of Slovenia they are more concentrated than from other parts. And, look, even though I know it can't be a school performance criterion, I've been subjected to some "hallo effect" when I see a single result. So it seems to me that this is a very sensitive field, no matter how much effort will be put forward and the mechanisms sought, with which this sort of classification of schools would still be reduced in the public publication of the results, the danger is still very great, because in the end it will be anyone who weighs, or the vast majority of them who weigh, but say, "Yes, because this is true, because it all holds that there are different moments, but the most successful are only there." And that's why it would have to be taken into account. Let me mention another paradox. For a long time, the Slovenian school system was considered to be too busy with average achievements, perhaps even to deal more with those who needed assistance and less with those who showed surpluses. If we want to be competitive, it will probably be necessary to accept that it will be the same as a lot of incentives and opportunities for the worse, and that excellence is also an important achievement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Since I do not think there is a desire to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 28th item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gymnasiums. The estimated time to deal with this point is 2 hours and 40 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to Mr Milan Zver, Minister for Education and Sport, to present a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! We have yet another novel in the field of secondary education, which is the novel of the law on high school. Even with all these changes, we could either separate or find key points, particularly in three directions. First of all, the law addresses issues relating to decision-making procedures for students' rights and obligations in school, which has been more or less regulated mainly at the level of sub-legislative legislation, under-laws, that is the rules. Today, if the law is adopted, we will add an even more appropriate legal framework for the protection of certain rights, as well as certain clearer obligations for pupils in secondary education. The law provides more precisely for the application of the law on administrative procedure. Identify where and when, as well as the authorities that decide in these processes. By the way, it also deals with the issue of alternative delivery of educational measures. We believe that the law at this point simplifies the whole of such a principle quite simply. It also enables a student who has committed an offence to correct it in other ways, such as by doing some good work, doing some damage, and so forth. In the second section, the law refers to the education of foreigners. Slovenia, by becoming a member of the EU, also belongs to a regulatory environment, and in particular to the environment of rights and freedoms, which also concern foreigners, citizens from the EU. This is particularly the issue of the role and importance of the Slovenian book language in the process of education and education. With the amendment of the article in question, we have also aligned ourselves with the Slovenian Office for the Protection of Slovenian. Dr. Dular authorised this novel at our request, so also with this authority we can say that the issue of Slovenian in the educational process at the level of secondary school is well resolved. The third is the usual changes in these shorter novels concerning the supervision of the implementation of the law. In particular, it is the role of inspection services and fines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mag. Branka Grims to present the committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you again for your word. I'll be shorter this time. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools, which the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered at its 18th regular meeting, on 5 October 2006, does not affect the basic solutions to the existing regulation and in particular simplifys and specifies certain procedures, so that for all those concerned, they are as simple, verifiable as possible and, on the other hand, in order to ensure adequate legal protection at any time. It introduces an additional body, the Minister has already spoken about it and we have been very much in the committee's position that the law is a very good basis. Although we accepted 4 editorial amendments, the most debate was on the issue of Slovenian. There has also been a single assessment of all members of the committee that it is an important question that the correct use of Slovenian is not only a goal, but also in some ways a value when it comes to the new situation of Slovenia as a member of the European Union, in which the preservation of Slovenian is, of course, one of the fundamental objectives without which the identity of the nation is not. But there were different views on how to do this. Finally, by a majority of votes, the Committee decided that, with the four amendments it had adopted, the text submitted was the appropriate basis for adoption at the national assembly, and I propose that we also adopt such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Have a nice hello again. The adoption of the law in 1996 has received only one addition, so in the 10 years it has been renovated on its own. And what we have in front of us today is, of course, also due to the fact that vandalism is found, if I may say so, in schools quite a bit. In particular, the main reason for the adoption of the novel is the removal of the lack of regulation of the procedures for determining rights and obligations and legal benefits. As far as I have heard from the Minister, there is a fact that today it is not possible to exercise effective control over the enforcement of this law without the appropriate instruments for sanctioning the serious violations, rights and obligations of students in the context of education. This is true and, of course, compliance with other legislation is also necessary. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Act on the Management of the Needs of Children with Special Needs is meaningfully covered here in the third package, which I have previously pointed out in the previous law, and I hope that it will also be implemented, because we know that we have a number of laws that are not implemented. We also have laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution and are valid and so on. In short, the law provides for three essential sets of amendments. It lays down provisions relating to the procedure for the exercise of actual rights and obligations, then supervisory provisions, as expressed in Article 14 of the novel and Article 15 thereof, and in the framework of the harmonisation provisions, as already stated, also include provisions relating to persons with special needs. In fact, we expect that what is lacking will be introduced and that the law will be strictly implemented. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We support the proposed law of DeSUS because we believe it will contribute significantly to improving and improving the implementation of rights and obligations in the context of the educational process in secondary schools. The current school legislation does not contain clear legal rules for the decision-making of rights, obligations or legal benefits or the application of this rule of law on the legal procedure, which, in our view, is not appropriate in relation to the specific relationship between a teacher and a learner. On this basis, such procedures are too formalism, many administrations, leading many times to the fact that the purpose of such treatment has not been achieved. Therefore, the Members of our Group agree with such a change. Therefore, a procedure that takes account of the specific relationship is proposed and alternative educational measures are proposed in the event of a serious violation of the rights and obligations of students in the context of education, such as settlement of the dispute, correction of the harmful consequences of conduct and so on. Also regarding the use of Slovenian and foreign language in the educational programme, we agree with the proposed regulation in our parliamentary group, as the role of Slovenia as full-fledged members of the European Union has increased significantly in the integration and globalisation processes, so it is essential to provide opportunities for education for also foreign-speaking people of Slovenia. We will therefore support the proposed solution, but we do not support the amendment tabled in this article. We believe that the applicant has also set appropriate criteria for the selection of candidates in case of restrictions on enrolment in high school, and therefore we do not support the proposed amendment of the LDS Group of Members. We believe that national testing of knowledge as a selective criterion is not objective enough, as the purpose of such testing is simply to obtain feedback on the quality of education. In the light of what is said in the DeSUS Group, we support the amended proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you, too. Member Branko Grims has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you again for your word. In the SDS Group of Members, we will support this law. Our assessment is that the government has rightly decided to propose solutions that comply with the changed situation in society, not least after Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union, and to harmonise the existing regime in this area also with certain other laws adopted in the past period. With regard to the main solutions, I should particularly stress that we support exactly everything that is proposed, both in terms of clarifying the procedural rules in individual procedures when deciding on the rights and duties of students. Also with regard to the application of individual laws - i.e., there has been a dilemma with regard to the application of the Administrative Procedure Act, whose direct and complete application in the school process would only have a negative effect, according to our common assessment, and therefore the current regime, namely the regulation currently being brought by the proposed novelties, is appropriate. We also welcome the proposal to introduce a new second-degree body to decide in appeals. In doing so, it is certainly necessary to point out to all those accompanying this meeting today that it is a body which, as a permanent body, will decide on complaints, but not on those which affect the status of the student in school, because the competence to manage and decide on these status rights is linked to the school's world. Also, according to our assessment, a solution to the different publication of the criteria is appropriate when it comes to the criteria for enrolment in high school. As we say, we will also support the proposed law in the SDS Group of Members with these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is to be presented on the basis of the list by Dr. Slavko Gaber. [[He's not here.]] For the next time, if you would like to inform; you have professional associates, you have everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The novelty that we are adopting today is without prejudice to the concept of the regulation of high school education so far. The proposed additions seek to improve the clarity of the legal provisions and their consistency with other regulations or with the actual new circumstances created by the changed social conditions, which should contribute to their overall effectiveness. The main reason for correcting the law is the removal of the lack of regulation of decision-making procedures on rights and obligations and the legal benefits already defined by law as substantive rights in the context of such education. The basic objective of this Act is to provide an appropriate legal framework for the correct and legal procedure in the exercise of rights and obligations or legal benefits in the educational or educational process, which is to exercise fundamental rights to education with the aim of obtaining a public-existing education and, lastly, the appropriate education of the child and the youth for independent and responsible conduct in life, which is the undisputed public interest of every social democratic society. The proposed solutions should provide a framework for a proper, effective and transparent procedure in which fundamental children's constitutional right to education, education and other behaviour are always at the child's greatest benefit. This gives an opportunity to make comprehensive adjustments to the defined provisions, which are, in fact, meaningfully summed up in the basic principles and rules, procedures under the Administrative Procedure Act, which, as guardians, ensure the legitimate exercise of rights and obligations in this process. In particular, the use of foreign language as a learning language shall be determined in cases where a recognised foreign expert or visiting teacher participates in the teaching for international exchanges, and in the case of preparations for an international graduation and a foreign school. Other minor additions or amendments to individual provisions of the current law are subject to current practice, as they have proved to be vague or weak, in particular in the light of new both formal and actual circumstances. We have no major comments on the law in the Liberal Democracy Club, but we are opposed to the new Article 5 which speaks of the criteria for admission to high school. Since we believe that too much diversification of the additional criteria is questionable, we have proposed an amendment limiting additional criteria. When completed, we would like to remind you of the complications with this year's criteria, which were such that they made it impossible to enroll in the desired high school with the top fives themselves. Experts, parents, and the public, as well as members of the professional council, warned about the poor standards. It is problematic for us to consider skills that lack clear criteria and can cause injustice as a criterion for entry. It is also unacceptable for us that schools have different criteria that may be discriminatory to certain groups. Since the criteria thus written question the equality of pupils and students, we are opposed to such criteria. The issue of justice and equality before the law is one of the fundamental issues for the Members of the Liberal Democracy, and it would be good that unthinkable and unprofessional solutions do not enter into our laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you. Your Honor! The amendment of the Law on High Schools also comes at a time when there are many speeches in public, as well as many expectations about the reform of high school, but the changes in the law that we are discussing today refer to other types of issues than those that are intended for reform. Surely the first set of issues that we agree in the Social Democrats Group that they are resolved in an appropriate manner is the meaningful application of the Administrative Procedure Act. It also seems acceptable for us to introduce alternative educational measures within the framework of those provisions relating to the procedures for the exercise and protection of the rights and obligations of persons involved in high school education. The supervisory provisions, which mean to a good extent compliance with the law on offences, are also such that they are not opposed in the group. However, when it comes to compliance with certain other laws, one opinion is divided. In the case of compliance with the provisions relating to persons with special needs, we believe that these amendments are appropriately included. We are also aware that in the new circumstances when Slovenia is a member of the European Union, the possibility of education for citizens, goods and services must be ensured, conditionally stated by the EU, given that the Constitutional Treaty has not yet been adopted, but that children of foreigners or citizens from other EU countries can also be educated in their own language in Slovenia. We also know a few such experiences and programmes in which they can be included in Slovenia. It is also not possible to oppose improvements related to the conditions for entry into the graduation course. Now I am moving on to what is not the best solution for the Socialist Group of Members in this bill. That's two sets. I'd mention one as one that's connected to the use of language. In particular, I should like to point out that our intervention in Article 1 of the proposed amendment to the law does not show that we are incompetent to understand that education is also based on national identity. It is therefore necessary to consider the role of Slovenia in language planning further in the new circumstances of EU membership at the level of secondary education, in this case of high school. This is not in conflict with foreign language learning, as everyone is aware, I hope that good integration into the EU requires foreign language skills, while ensuring that the Slovenian language is not uprooted at the level of a regional, provincial language. However, another set of issues on which we have concerns is related to an article that discusses the criteria for classification or entry at a time when the entry for continuing education is limited. We believe that he has needlessly lost support for the proposal that we have already considered on the parental committee, which says that in the second round a national test is also possible as an additional criterion for entry into secondary school with restrictions on admission. At the same time, this is a forecast of how we will deal with both of the amendments tabled in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Hello again! The proposed amendments to the Law on High Schools provide students with better solutions to the realization and protection of rights, as well as to their obligations. The changes are geared towards better efficiency and speed in resolving students' complaints and the increased competence of schools to solve these problems. The use of a foreign language is more precisely determined when a foreign expert participates in the course. The law further regulates the education of foreign nationals in a foreign language and offers the choice of Slovenian language. The law also mentions the preparation for an international foreign language graduation. The law shall be supplemented by an article dealing with student offences or educational measures. The Novela also introduces alternative educational measures, such as compensation for damage, good work and the like, which we welcome in Nova Slovenija. We know that old measures, such as reminders, reproofs and the like, are ineffective. A proper approach and a choice of educational action for an individual student may, in our view, have a positive effect in raising and educating young people. In New Slovenia we will support the proposed novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Nice to meet you again. We are adopting a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on high school by means of a reduced procedure, which makes it less difficult to change the law. Initially, it is important to stress that the Ministry is preparing a recast of high school education, which also means a new law on high school, which will bring this area into a new system and, last but not least, a comprehensive regulation. However, the proposed novelty brings some important changes that will allow legal conduct of procedures in the exercise of rights and obligations in the educational process. The current regime is unclear. The applicable law does not have rules of procedure for the exercise and protection of the rights of students. In this regard, high schools as well as students and their parents face many challenges. These procedures applied the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which meant highly formalised and rigid procedures. From the point of view of the educational process, the proposed arrangements for the exercise and protection of the rights of students are good and we also support them in the Slovenian People's Party Group. The other two sets of amendments to the law are aimed in particular at the issue of the education of foreigners and in this regard also of the learning language, as well as supervisory provisions to ensure more effective control over the implementation of this law. The shortcomings of the existing regime are an obstacle to the ability of the competent inspection body to ensure adequate control over the implementation of the law on secondary education. The issue of language in educational institutions is a very sensitive issue. The role of language education is indisputable as the basis of civic education, as discussed by a colleague, Mrs Majda Potrata, at a meeting of the home working body. Finally, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 11 clearly states that the official language is Slovenian, as well as Italian and Hungarian in areas with national communities. We must all strive to preserve Slovenian and, in particular, to develop Slovenian professional terminology, which has already been overly abandoned in a wide range of scientific areas. Of course, at the time of internationalisation of education, it is not possible to absolutely insist that the entire educational programme is implemented only in the Slovenian language. The international exchange of students and students has become something common. It is also unrealistic to expect that a recognised foreign expert who teaches at a particular school will teach in the Slovenian language. Especially in teaching foreign languages, the presence of a foreign - language teacher is more than welcome. Therefore, the proposed amendment makes sense. However, this change must not mean long-term abandonment of the use of Slovenian language in education. We cannot ignore the fact that it is the Slovenian language that is our essential identity, the symbol of the Slovenian people. Our greatest writers, who have reached European and world fame, know that they wrote in the Slovenian language. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider the proposed solutions to be good, and we will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.10.2006. We have two amendments to Article 1, both proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. I'm asking you to report to the debate. One of the panellists, Ambassador Majda Potrat, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you. Hope dies last, they say. So, I still hope, despite the predictions that have been heard from the opinions of the members of the groups, that the amendment will not receive support. I hope I can at least explain to you what the problem is and how I understand the matter. It is not at all a question of the proper use of the language. The correctness is defined by the spelling, the correctness of which is decided by other language manuals, and this is a matter of language standard, which is decided by the extent to which the speaker or writer complies with the language standard, to decide on the degree to which he or she can be described. This is the case for high school, and I must say that it can be found in secondary school programmes that, despite the concerns of individuals, today’s graduates can also distinguish between language types and that they can also use the appropriate language type according to their language position. So I wouldn't want to stop on these issues at the time of the amendment. It also seems to me that I have made it clear before that this is not a question of lack of contact with reality, as regards the need to learn foreign languages and also the use of foreign languages. However, it is something that is in the direct domain and also the responsibility of those who decide on language planning and language policy, how the language will be placed in the educational system. Indeed, it is sometimes possible to hear some distinguished European or global expert who, in particular in nature, believes that Slovenian is no longer an appropriate professional or scientific language to express relevant knowledge and behaviour in this area. But if so, then it is the responsibility of those who are from this area that they have not done enough to modernize this language. I have in mind famous experts and scientists of the second half of the 19th century who have raised Slovenian from the literary language itself in both the professional and scientific languages. And I think it's worth trying to make sure that what they did to you, they wouldn't abandon that heritage, but they would develop that heritage. There is also a need to translate new knowledge into Slovenian. Therefore, new knowledge must also be named. Not only to describe, but also to name. That is why secondary education is extremely sensitive, as language consciousness is formed. Belonging to a nation is linked, not only with the use of language, but especially with language consciousness. And in high school, for pragmatic reasons, young people can develop a relationship that teachers can also help to shape, that Slovenian is a very beautiful language, but that some content is not sufficiently designed to express. And that's exactly why it seems appropriate for me to remind you again of what the essence of my amendment is. It follows what you've been saying that we can't ask foreign experts to speak Slovenian. Therefore, there should be another teacher with a foreign expert in the class, who is Slovenian. So you're two teachers. This other Slovenian teacher jumps to the help of a foreign - language teacher when students cannot accept the new knowledge well enough. This is in the interest of the students because the government proposal also takes into account the requirement that the examination and evaluation of knowledge should be carried out in Slovenian. And if he wants to know all this well enough, he would be right to have a teacher with him. You know, it's not about learning a foreign language. A foreign language lesson has already been introduced in many ways so that a foreign - language speaker is born in the classroom. And now with this change, he only got the legal basis for what he is. It is a so-called assistant or lecturer who participates in a foreign language. No one has anything to do with it. Anything that helps improve the school process is welcome. However, it is true that I do not think that this is sufficiently guaranteed in all situations. And that if there are some exceptional cases in some of the narrow special subjects where the preparers have convinced me, they are afraid that we will not get an expert who will be able to participate in this, but will not be so good. He'll be a Slovenian. But he'll be able to cooperate, and that could be done. And let me draw attention to another amendment. It seems very important to me that the preparation for an international graduation is limited to a third and fourth year. Because in some cases it is already a combination of two principles. Principles of an international graduation involving citizens and citizens of Slovenia and an international prom involving citizens and citizens who are not Slovenian and have the right to education in a foreign language under other legal rules. Unfortunately, not always in his native language, but usually in English or French. But it's been assured by now. However, I hope that the attention will now be so great that you will understand the direction in which the amendment is going and what it was meant to be. Not some anachronistic, professionally-appreciated view, but it is those who, with such provisions, allow not only to be preserved, but also to emphasize where it is kept, but to develop and establish all that will keep us as responsible citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who are Slovenian nationalities, in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament. Once again, I thank you for the principled support of almost everyone for this novel as well. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to point out that the government does not support them. For example, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is aimed at reinvigorating national knowledge tests as an important selection mechanism. While I think both amendments of the Social Democrats that their content is already adequately addressed in the proposal of the novel itself. So the government will not support any of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Since I see a desire for a debate, it means I'm opening up a new application circuit. Everyone you want to sign up, please. Member Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you, again for your word. Once again, I would like to stress what I am already doing on behalf of the SDS Group in the opening recital. Surely in the SDS, you all know how close our ties are to a large part of Slovenian culture, its creators, including personal connections. I have a lot of friends myself. That is why the importance of Slovenian culture, Slovenian national identity and thus of Slovenian language are still well aware. Not only values, because Slovenian is, in itself, a value in our circumstances. But above all, it's a key part of our identity. For what we bring as our wealth to Europe, we have already brought to Europe. It is also about preserving this in Europe, offering it to this Europe and making it as rich as possible in this Europe and developing it in the future. There are many ways to achieve this goal. Our assessment is that this objective, which Mrs Potrate advocates, is certainly worthy of respect. But we're not sure that's the only way. We're not even sure this is the right way. For this reason, we appreciate her work. We express all respect for the effort and personal commitment it has made to these amendments, but in view of the arguments presented, in view of the Government's place of reference, and also in view of all the discussions that have taken place in the course of the adoption of the law, with which we have also highlighted this problem on a professional basis from very different points of view, we are assessing in the SDS that it is reasonable to listen to the government and, therefore, to preserve the existing solutions in the proposed law as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you. I give my word to Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this amendment in New Slovenia either. Not that we do not appreciate the Slovenian language, but we feel that this is well regulated in the proposed article of the law. The exercise of instruction in a foreign language should not be a rule. It is also a restriction that 1/3, if the school decides to do so and the school assesses that children do not have a vocabulary, the school must take care of it. However, the SD Group's proposal should then have two teachers in the classroom at the same time, which makes no sense to us. We think one teacher is enough. The school, however, must ensure that the children understand the vocabulary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members. However, I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Three Members have been declared at one time. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment essentially refers to mathematics, which, before the students' actions are entered, translates into a certain number of points and that number of points. Then it allows them to either accept it or not, or whether they will be able to pursue their goals that they have set for themselves or not. For this reason, the criterion needs to be selected "con grano sallies" with a measure of good taste and then select this criterion also by allowing it to measure the whole sample, not just some and that it will be accessible to all and that it will somehow be objective and that it will be fair. That there was a cross in the past with these criteria shows various reactions of parents after the children were not admitted to a specific institution. Mr. Stayn's petition, if you know. If something was wrong with the criteria, they also showed differences between those who were accepted or rejected, they were students in high school who had excellent grades. So the A's themselves and some who didn't have one. But with the additional criteria, they came up with an entry. That is why I would somehow try to rely on this debate to try to find such a criterion that is objectively up to the children, to the parents, and not least to the minister, because the minister here bears the greatest responsibility. In the end, he will choose the criteria to sign and he will be the arbitrator on which, of course, at the beginning of the school year, students will try to act and also acquire additional activities of the entry point. There is no doubt that the first criterion is the measure of success in school. It's not at all controversial. That can be measured. It's the same for everyone. There's no debate here. This is then the criterion, and in the second paragraph of Article 5, which states, as an additional criterion, it is now an additional criterion, and it can also be taken into account in another way of showing the skills and skills that are important for successful further education. The question is now, not as much as the knowledge shown, these are measured on various things. Of course, there is also a question of what knowledge or knowledge that has been measured in the local environment or the knowledge that has been measured in the Republic. But it will be possible for the Minister and the Council of Experts to determine this without further ado. On the other hand, skills are of course involved. How are we gonna measure someone's skills now? It goes, of course, as Director Mežan said, that this supplement is for those who will go to music school and who will go to art high school. How do we measure these people's skills now? What are those criteria? Are they going to be their d's or their actions that are before, or are they going to be classic acceptance exams coming up? But up here. You know, so there can be great injustices. Does it belong to one of the skills of this athlete, for example, will it be archery, athletics, swimming? Is that going to be alpinism? That's what it's gonna be, How can we choose from the crowd the criteria that will be appropriate for this? Or the one who's going to the music school? Singing in the children's choir? Singing, what do I know, on TV, singing, or publishing the record, and so on? So here, when these things are chosen, they can determine different, different injustices? And, of course, we tried to do this for the first time, so that these skills with our amendment would just be erased, it would be a proven knowledge, because there is also some knowledge that you know, that they also give in the music field in various competitions and that kind of thing. But the thing is, these criteria can never be 100% objective. These criteria can never be equally accessible to anyone through the same vats as others. Today, look for success in some ski competition, and that's what counts to him at points, for the first time, he has to have sacrificing parents who have a lot of money to buy him equipment and so on. So as far as these skills are concerned, there must be some predispositions that not all have. And here certain injustices can happen. And because of this, if something goes wrong, if the criterion is not good in this sense, of course, all responsibility will be borne by the Minister and the Ministry and there will be dissatisfaction by the parents as well as public dissatisfaction. On the other hand, it seems to me - as my colleague Klavor also mentioned - that it would be good to make one restriction of the criteria for the knowledge shown. How will we now ask them to bring a certificate of knowledge? If you take a broad palette for this knowledge, then it can happen that in this broad range, for the first time, not even everyone will be able to cooperate, the second time this palette can be narrowed locally, perhaps more to the city’s cores than to the village’s cores. And it can also happen that this will show knowledge of what is involved, just judging, for the first time, the professional council, and for the second time minister, and it would be better to legally restrict these stated criteria. That is why we proposed in the amendment, and there in the round, that this would mainly refer to, as you had written in the amendment, and to the national test of knowledge on these competitions, which we all already know, which are accessible to everyone. Of course, it's about criteria, remember, high school, not vocational schools or vocational schools. And these criteria, these two criteria, for a high school student who will go to study later, whose main job will be to perform exams when he completes high school education, are more than justified to get acquainted with them before he goes to such a school that will not give him any final knowledge, but will only be some preparation for the future - that these criteria, which are also quite quality and accessible to all, will be applied in this case. Because of this, Mr Minister, I expected that, at least in the second reading, if the amendment is not acceptable in one part, this amendment could be supported, and perhaps there would be a third treatment of such a dictatorship, which mainly speaks to you - this law speaks primarily of you, you are the nucleus around which this will be carried out - it would not cause gray hair.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you. From my teaching practice I know an experience that is not only mine but generally that the second entry rate is usually obvious to them below, that they have not done their job well enough and that students or students know little. Therefore, the desire to have the entry point set out under which conditions she will accept students who are becoming louder, both when moving from primary to secondary, and from medium to high, is questionable to me. Recently, I read in the newspaper the results of a survey that was carried out at a high school when they examined the knowledge that elementary school students were coming to high school. And they questioned the quality of their education until now. Therefore, support for this amendment seems essential to me because these national knowledge tests have been taken into account at the second point as an additional criterion. And it seems to me that if we think about it that way, then we can't just rule it out because they're a standardized knowledge measure. Anything else can be more or less a random set of additional skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you. Will the Minister be involved in the debate now or after the last speaker? So, I give the floor to Ambassador Ljub Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. So if it was at a time when I was a teacher or an assistant or a principal, then I was working in the field of education and education, what was important was that I always tried to do so that no injustice was caused to anyone. This seems very important to me in young people, for we do it with our actions, and many times we do not even know it. Therefore, it was very important for me to ask that all the criteria that decide on this success, failure, progress, as objective and as correct and as generally as possible be valid. For this is one of the very important principles that must be respected in education. When we are talking about a very important issue today, Mr Minister, I would remind you that there are so many words about wanting a nice school, as little as possible a stressful school. And since we know that it's just checking, evaluating, so there are a lot of events in schools that are more or less stressful, it's one of the very important milestones. So the transition from primary school to high school is certainly a very important decision, which certainly includes the whole family and the wider environment, that of course is the decision, for the first time, the right one. Secondly, the decision has been made in such a way that it does not create any feelings of inequality, inequality between all candidates and candidates coming from primary to secondary school. Of course, the purpose of this amendment is that to the Minister, in this case in this period it is you who imposes the law on such a framework, which also gives an objective answer in relation to all those who are in this process. Objective correct answers and answers that ensure equality and equality for all involved. And so in this sense, this amendment is that we try to do as much as possible in the law to remove all dilemmas and allow all the rules of the game in an equal and corrective manner. Why is this so important? Because I come from a rural environment, a suburban environment. If I just set one criterion, let's say that one school defines as a skill, say, a certificate or a visit to a music school, we live in the municipalities where the music school is, and where there is no music school. And the very necessary criterion for a person to be able to join a music school may also be distance from the music school itself. It can also be a very important criterion for the social status of the family in which the child is located. That's one of the cases. Not to mention other cases, such as in the area of additional skills, such as culture and the area of sport. You know that today to participate in active sports participation is also one of the entry criteria for the social status of the family, as monthly investment in purchase of equipment, membership in societies, means for families one of the very high costs. And will this principle of equality, equality, which will allow equal opportunities for all, be enforced after we allow these skills to be prescribed by individual schools. Of course, we can also talk here about a number of other elements that need to be examined earlier, including the experiences we have had in the last two years, because the enrolment conditions from school to school were different. And what was interesting was the fact that one school that offered different conditions than the other school had one candidate in the first round who had failed and then were successful at the second school in the second round, and they were additional, so the additional criteria that the school had tendered were different. Which means that one of the criteria was true at one school, and then at another stage, it didn't apply at another school. This is just a reminder from this point of view that we are aware of the problem ahead of us and the responsibility we have. We therefore propose that, if not otherwise, we make at least another round of reflection to adopt this amendment and can, as has already been said, correct this article in the third reading, if we find that our arguments here today are only so valid that we can complete the text. Therefore, we suggest that we leave out the criteria of skill and maintain the criteria of knowledge, as the case may be. [[School competitions, i.e. competitions in the field of knowledge, or national tests of knowledge]] . I am sure, Minister, that you are aware of this problem and that we are, in fact, trying to help you with this amendment. In order to ensure that all those involved in these selection procedures have equal and fair procedures, the school will be as stressful as possible. To allow the criteria for entry to be known in advance and as objective as possible and equal for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you, too. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, for those discussions that started a little earlier than I anticipated. I expected similar discussions under the next law proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Nevertheless, it is right that he is trying to answer these questions right now. The fact is, we all have the same goals. This is a quality and kind school. And the ways to them are obviously slightly different. It is certainly not my intention to try anything in these transitions that we are talking about from primary to secondary to higher education to anyone who is affected or who is guilty. Modern society is based on the principle of equal opportunities and also on maximising the potential of everyone. However, the potentials of everyone, not a student or a student, are not just in knowledge, not just those of knowledge that can be measured or evaluated, but others, as the English say, are "skills". And they understand that quite widely. These are also skills and skills. And it is also right that these elements are taken into account in this case also as a criterion for enrolment in schools with limited enrolment. Unfortunately, this problem is becoming more and more pressing. Because we have fewer and fewer students. The demographic decline in this area is very severe and fewer and fewer populations are reaching this issue. Of course, if one injustice is done, it is already a sufficient alarm for a human and socially sensitive society. But all these, in principle, beautiful starting points like "all the same possibilities" hit a wall or at the limit of opportunity. If material and spatial conditions and other capacities were large enough, then there would be no restriction on enrolment in certain schools. Now we have the situation so that students, those with A's and if they don't come to a school, should be allowed to enroll in the next nearest school. This does not mean that the finers themselves or the fivers could not be enrolled in high school. Not at all. Maybe not at the desired high school, but that doesn't mean there's no such high school anywhere near here. You know, we know very well that sometimes some of us have been called drivers. Because we didn't have a suitable school in our village or town where we wanted to go. So today we need to look more closely at the student and the student, not only at his numerically identifiable knowledge. But also a little wider, including his powers. This is a different philosophy of perception of transitions than the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the government. I think today will be a lot of opportunities for us to face arguments and then see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you, too. Another round of debaters. Let's see what it's like with the time component. Comrade Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. True, for some parents children are jewels and are extremely sensitive to what is happening to them. And there's always a lot of tension with them before the kid signs in and then waits for that result. And if not achieved, then it usually happens that none of them are guilty, but that the system is the one that made it impossible for them to achieve the desired goal. That's why I'd try to say some more things. See, Mr Minister, for the first time, I will no longer be discussed at that point that follows, because each parliamentary group will tell its own story and the point will be over. It is only now possible to talk about this and in dialogue with you try to justify why it would be good for children, parents and not least for us. I think we're talking about a population that's enrolled in high school, which I've already talked about, what it's like. I think, unlike you, Mr Klavora, I have worked in a school on a chalkboard for 20 years, and I feel that this national test of knowledge is an objective criterion for how many people have received in this primary school. In my opinion, I may even use one of the most objective criteria. But we do not insist on this criterion as much as on trying to help the minister in his choice, so as to achieve unequal opportunities, but to achieve justice and equality before the law. We agreed earlier, Mr Minister, that the slippery terrain is to assign the child this skill to the candidate. It's high school. As far as I understand Mr Mežan, it is only two sets within the high schools, where you would give skills as benchmarks. This, from what I've heard, is basically art high school, which has art departments and would only apply to these departments. And high school kids with sports classes. Then we'd give it only for these departments. For music schools do not fall into this context, and something else applies to them. To avoid this and to avoid any abuse here, why it is now written in general, at least it would be good if you thought of those skills. But if you were really going to use it as a benchmark just for these two guys in high school to have, say, that kind of text. However, as an additional criterion, the knowledge shown in other ways may be taken into account and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] So in high school with artistic and sports departments, as well as the skills shown, it is said, so that it would be known that this is the part where you would really need it, and this is the second part. This is, say, one of the possible solutions. I don't know if it's the most elegant, but it gives the law a different dimension than it is now, which is why it's done. I do not think that the law, as such, solves the issue of justice and equality before the law, as one of the serious issues. It's because of these dilemmas that we've established here with colleague Potrato, Germic and me. We know that we have a case currently before the courts and that the courts, of course, are governed by law. And it seems good to me that the minister would also have legal protection when in such cases he appears before a court, but not so loosely written that he can be interpreted in one way or another. For this reason, it would be good then, it seems to me, that this solution is unthinkable and a little unprofessional, that we do not get into trouble, that it would be good now in second reading to accept this amendment that we have proposed. Think about it, and in the third reading, depending on the considerations or suggestions that we have here, because now there is nothing more we can do, you are also trying to formulate an amendment that would set you when you set out these criteria in a year's time to enter a much cleaner situation and that would not cause you any problems then when you set those criteria and when these criteria will begin to apply in practice. This is really the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I, too, would like to warn you that today will not be a great opportunity for us to speak much more. Given that the following law, which actually touches on this subject, is limited in the debate, according to the procedure at which and how it is dealt with. It would therefore make sense for us to have a little more discussion here. Even in terms of what is now, how did Comrade Moze understand the Secretary. Because if this is how we understand that we have different criteria according to the type of high school, then of course we should have a different conversation. But the text, as it now says, is that we have a common problem, regardless of the type of high school or general or artistic or sporting or whatever. So, we're talking about high school, where there's a restriction on admission. There we place or have, you will have the competence to set the criteria, and in the third paragraph of this Article, which we are supplementing, we will write what should be the framework of these criteria, where we place previous knowledge. So, pre-educated knowledge. However, as an additional criterion, they may also be included in another way of showing knowledge and skills. I think we're talking about all types of high school and we're talking about restrictions, where there will be restrictions, where there will be more candidates, like the number of cities awarded. Of course, there's a problem here now. For practice has shown that in these conditions, we have had different positions or content for a school, which we have called for through high school. What is needed for a school is very important, for example, just one criterion. I mentioned it earlier. For example, the social status of the family from which the student comes or the distance from the place of residence to the school where someone wants to be involved. These are, say, two important elements that will condition how to prepare to meet these criteria. Because in 9th grade, it's certainly impossible to carry out all the things that a school will put as a condition. But this is actually a process in which children, families and the environment are involved so that they can successfully run for the desired high school. I can agree with you that the high school program in general high school is the same. But, say, the extra offers offered by high school are different. This is conditioned then also by the ambitions of a student in which he wants to, say, complement the so-called open curriculum with other things. It is therefore very important that we put here a perfectly clear picture, clear criteria and that, of course, since school differs from school, let us make it possible for everyone to have equality, equality and all the equal opportunities that you are talking about. There are differences between high schools and there will be additional criteria that will be set by high schools. The question now arises: Will all candidates have the same opportunity to meet the additional criteria for the high school they want to enroll in, not because they would not want to, but because they will not be able to do so? Here's the problem. Here, when we talk about narrower, so about knowledge, we think this criterion is substantially more correct, much more so if I can say objectively measurable. This also stems from the amendment that we are making here today. For practice teaches us that there were many unpleasant and stressful situations when families and children were placed in this situation. Therefore, once again, Mr Minister, let us be able to find so much will and courage and perhaps even reason that by adopting this amendment, we should take the opportunity and time to, in the third reading, say make such an addition as I think we all want. We all want to be right, objective and free of injustice to allow all those who are on the transition from primary school to high school to the desired school. I hope so. Not only because of the decline in birth rates, but because the system will be so built, it will allow everyone to enter the school they want, and with the support of this amendment we will take a step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Dear Members! In view of the quality and correct debate, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the Minister, has run out of time to discuss, I propose that we allow him 5 minutes to respond in connection with Article 5 and the amendment. This would otherwise be an exception which is contrary to the rules of procedure. If any of the Members or Members present oppose it, I will not do so. But if you agree with me, we give him our word. Minister, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for this correctness, too. Dear Polish and Members of Parliament for this additional opportunity and opportunity! Ambassador Germič touched on the core of the problem when the principle is a question of the future reform of the high school programme, for which some general consensus is already around.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Minister, if you'll excuse me, only the technique tells us, just one second, to arrange the technique for the microphone to come back on again. You can stop. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	So the consensus on the reform of high school is such that it foresees the widest possible openness of the curriculum, especially towards the end of high school, the third and fourth year, so that this variety of high school offers can be expressed as much as possible in order to have as many types of school as possible. We can also say today that in practice high schools are very different and try to build already in existing ones, in some existing normative environment, giving their own identity and differentness. It is clear, then, that students are also quite different according to their ability, as well as their interest and interest. Now that you've got so much to do with injustice, you can ask what's more wrong, what's wrong with high school, one high school, say, artistically, recorded someone who has more points, or someone who has a smaller number of points and an affinity to some program, or some skills and skills already covered by this particular program? Always beware when applying this principle of inequality and injustice. When I spoke earlier about a different philosophy of transition, I still think that it is the most fair and also functional for the system in its entirety, that more people who accept students or later students have a word. Today I had an interesting interview when a sports journalist asked me how we came from some college students who should be sport-trained, but, say, they don't know how to play football where they're going together for recreation. And this question could lead to another level where they train for another profile. In short, at first glance, a rather strange question, which contains the essence of the problem: Do colleges or those who accept students and later students get the desired profile, or do those who in this universal race have an automatic advantage in writing? Here the question is asked: What is fairer and fairer for individuals and for the system as a whole? It is certainly more functional for the system to have a word for those who accept it. And it is therefore absolutely right to allow institutions, including higher education institutions, to call on those skills or "skills", competences that have a certain advantage when entering them, at least one part. Even in this year's applicable criteria, NPZs have remained as a form of standardisation of skills. They're easy. And even in this law, in this novel that we accept today, we open the door and they also have a legal basis. You don't need to talk about NPZs in particular. At the very least, it is appropriate to list two in your collar and release the others. This novel makes everything possible. It also allows for what you want. It does not close or put any obstacles to reform, for example, the high school program that is at the door or about which this autumn will be very much speech and much energy to be devoted. In short, I wish we didn't prescribe everything completely. Can not get message: %s %s Not particularly because, for the first time, we do not have a single barracks of students and students in front of us, and we do not have a single barracks or institutions. We have very different things. The institutes are already distinguishing each other by direction, building their own identity. Some are more social, natural, and so on. We don't just have sports and art high schools. And it is right to allow these schools this diversity, and also students, so that they can enroll in that program and that high school that is closer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you. I can still see the desire to apply for a debate. I'm opening the procedure. Please. We have two reported discussers. I'm asking you to consider that the Minister no longer has a word. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Mojet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, it's only for thought, because you can't answer any more. Look, if you take art school and put it on the national level, which it says here, skills criteria, playing instruments, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] What about croaking? We're famous for Idrian laces. We're famous. There's a lot of work to be done. Is this art? We organize exhibitions, we're capable. How many of these things are still going on? And that is why, in my opinion, Mr Minister, it would be better if these skills were to keep schools on their own under their own internal conditions, after accepting to give additional conditions, as I have heard. You give them more options, and you give them your responsibility, and you lay what you sign on what is absolutely necessary and what is necessary for everything somehow, I would say is achievable and also somehow fair as the main criterion for whether a person is capable of successfully continuing or not being able to continue successfully. Therefore, it would be good to support this amendment in line with what you have said and what we say, and then to try to complement it in the light of what has been said in the third reading by drinking water and by trying to give you as little trouble as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you. And the final debater is Ambassador Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, the starting point that we have is different. You're trying to form types of high school within, like, general high schools that are going to be differentiated, say, into some specialties after what's added to the extra. And I say the following. If someone who did not have an opportunity in primary education and would not be able to meet the content of the criteria that some high school prescribes as specifics, he might be very much involved in this high school, because there are cases where people cannot be in sports clubs that require this and that sort of thing, they are, for example, very talented for sports activity and will not be able to present the criteria, because they will not be included in a club that requires any kind of financial engagement, time engagement and, say, will not be able to enter one school that will be different from another, which will say very much stress sports activity. I'm talking to you as the principal of one of the high schools where we've talked a lot about what this difference should be. I'm telling you, there's a huge difference between students and families between parents between what someone can do to someone. Because today, at 10 years of age, he is already being forced into all clubs to train seven times a week, to train 10 months a year, and to invest so much and so, let's say millions. When I look at, say, the comparison between high schools in the Maribor area, they're quite different. And someone who has had the opportunity to be 10 months a year or two each year abroad by the age of 15 will have significantly more opportunities to enroll in classical high school, such as where this segment is highlighted, than someone who could not. And how will he prove, let's say, all these skills. Here's my point. You're from high school back. And I come from elementary school up. And here he must be equal and equal to all those who sign in. With all the specifics of high school that will be applied and already established. Now, let's say, in the field, we already know, let's say, which high school in which segment gives much more emphasis than, say, others. And it's also in primary schools when, say, it's distributed. And I speak only from this point of view that some who would very much like to go to some high school will not be able to meet those criteria which they think would be true candidates as a type of high school. And here these segments will be limited. That's the point of my debate. And that's why I think it's very important to think about it at this point. Because if we do this to individuals to prevent them from actually going to this high school, we have already made a bad enough solution. Because today we are alerting these elements here and, despite the behaviour of this element, of course, we will go through these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. However, the Vice-President of Klavor takes over the meeting at noon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the primary school law, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Slavko Gaber. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We are moving on to the positions or positions of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Dear Vice-President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will not support this law. We believe that the essence of national verification in primary schools is to verify the knowledge of pupils and pupils in order to obtain feedback on the quality of education. Such information may, however, be realistic only if the pupils are allowed to carry out an unladen knowledge check. Only on such grounds can pupils, their parents, teachers and the state obtain relevant information on the quality of knowledge, and indirectly information on the quality of the educational system itself. We believe that in the case of limited enrolment in secondary schools it is necessary to set selective criteria on the basis of which candidates for admission to a specific secondary school programme will also be selected. However, we are convinced that national knowledge verification is not an appropriate instrument to collect entry points and further secondary education. We also believe that secondary schools should determine for themselves the conditions that their future students should meet upon admission. For example, completion of the admission examination relating to the content of the programme of each secondary school. Only in this way would the criteria of external evaluation be met as impartial, complementing the currently dominant internal evaluation. On this basis, for example, students would be enrolled in science-oriented secondary schools which, according to the results of the admission examinations, would indicate talent for these courses. It is also estimated that in recent years it has become too difficult to apply exclusively to internal criteria for enrolment in secondary schools. The data that nearly a third of the entire generation have graduated from primary school with excellent success this year tells us that learning success in enrolment at the best high school is a completely useless criterion. For these reasons, the DeSUS Group will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor on behalf of the national community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates. For the proposed supplement only one section of the Basic School Act is amended. Complementing the law will allow for taking into account the results of external knowledge checks when entering secondary school. This should remove doubts as to the legal basis for taking into account the results of national knowledge checks when entering secondary schools and thus ensure the conditions for fairness and fairness in the school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Your Honor, thank you for your word. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision drawn up by the Home Committee, so that the law is not suitable for further consideration, the reason for this is simple and I will say it with simple words. The law, as proposed, is very conservative, bringing things back to what turned out to be stressful, inappropriate, bad for our school system, and bad for our future. Therefore, because the law is so very conservative, we believe it does not deserve support and we will support the conclusion that the legislative process is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	President, thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting. The amendments and additions to the Basic School Act adopted by the National Assembly in the last year and a half made it impossible, according to some legal explanations, to continue to apply the results of the national knowledge check as one of the criteria in case of restrictions on entry. Such interpretations have also been presented several times to members and members of the Slovenian General Education Council. This has been the case, although Article 15 of the current Law on High Schools provides that the selection of candidates for entry into the elementary school year shall take into account, in particular, their learning success during the third period of primary schooling. In order to remove any doubts about the legal basis for taking into account the results of the national knowledge check when entering secondary school, we propose to supplement the primary school law. In this regard, it is also recalled that the General Education Council has repeatedly pointed out at the examination of the criteria that external knowledge verification results should be taken into account in the preparation of criteria in secondary schools with restrictions on enrolment. By supplementing the law, we want to make it possible to take into account the results of external knowledge checks when entering secondary school. The law does not impose an obligation to apply external checks as criteria for entry, when we are to do a restriction on entry, only offers them as an option. With regard to the support we offer to the bill, we would point out that the drafter points out, for the first time, that by amending the law to the Minister, he can, if he decides to do so, when it is necessary to decide who would have the advantage in entering the high school by limiting the entry to determine that it is one of the criteria of the assessment obtained by the procedure which, to the greatest extent possible, excludes the personal assessment and, as such, increases the transparency and fairness of the election. The criterion is undoubtedly accessible and the most objective. We also point out that the registration procedure for the current school year, also because it did not allow for an external audit-based choice, increased pressure on teachers to increase internal final evaluations. Therefore, at the conclusion of the primary school, as has already been said, we have more than one third of the winners, which according to the natural statistical distribution in the assessment of complete nonsense. Schools report this to us, parents report it to us; therefore, pressures are being exerted. Let me get this. The LDS Club will support the proposal of the law, desiring that children, parents and teachers, at the end of the school year and when entering secondary school, would not be exposed to unnecessary ambiguities and pressure. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Exclusion, on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you. Now is a special greeting to the Director, who has joined us in the consideration of this law. The proposed law is part of those laws that could be said to be the result of some negative experience in practice. And the complications with the application of the criteria for enrolment in schools with limited enrolment this summer were dictated, I believe that the applicant of this law is to go beyond the applicable school law on primary school with this proposal, which actually contains one substantive article. The problem with this law is that, in fact, for all those who have made a change in the assessment of national knowledge tests, it is now difficult to support something that has an absolute good purpose and to the level of legal regulation raises something that could legally be disputed if national knowledge tests remain only at the level of information and would in some circumstances also be used as an additional criterion for admission to schools with a limited description. I believe that there are no absolute objective tests of knowledge, but they are better and worse and certainly national tests of knowledge to determine the standards of knowledge are counted among those that have not yet been exceeded by other types of quality tests. Therefore, once again in the Social Democrats Group, we regret the decision that some have seen in national knowledge trials merely supporting competition and efficiency. Identifying the quality of knowledge and knowledge standards is essential to the development of the school system and to influence its quality improvement. However, the question is how far can this feedback have in the current situation also have far-reaching effects on those who leave school for nine years. But, as it is said, we discussed this under another law, so it seems to me that reading the proposed article of the law is essential. Thus, in the first part of this article remains at the level of what has been observed in the legislation so far, namely that the achievements of the national knowledge check are additional information on the knowledge of pupils. This is said, however, still at the level of additional information is essentially stated below when it says that they can also be one of the criteria for enrolment in secondary schools. With this criterion in the second round, to put it this way, it gets the legal basis in the law where this criterion should be written. This is in the primary school law, because regardless of the conclusion that the generations of primary school students who are running for admission to secondary school are declining, we may also find ourselves in the future in a situation where some secondary school will limit our enrolment, and this high school will not be a high school, as it is now happening to us or at least some of our high schools. The great pressure of students has been so far, as far as I know from practice, let's say in the secondary health school as well as in the school of education in the past; perhaps at some level I don't even know about them right now, but the fact is that the placement of this criterion as an additional criterion in enrolment in schools with limited enrolment is the best. Therefore, the Socialist Group of Members will oppose the proposed decision of the parent labour body, which speaks of the fact that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, but will consider its declaration that the law would be a suitable basis for continuation and that it would be well supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	For the last time, welcome. Today, the proposed amendment to the Basic School Act refers to the use of national knowledge verification achievements in enrolment in secondary schools, which can only be used as a entry criterion in case of restriction of entry. The aim of the current national knowledge check is to obtain information on the quality of knowledge and thus, indirectly, what is the quality of teaching and learning, i.e. how much knowledge children have gained in basic, compulsory education in Slovenian or mother language, mathematics and another subject prescribed by the Minister. However, national checks are not intended to select students for admission to secondary schools, nor are they intended to verify that teachers and children are too focused on these subjects in preparation for the national examination of knowledge and the achievement of grades for admission to secondary school. This is why we will not support changes in the law in New Slovenia. We believe that there is no room in this law to regulate the criteria and standards of secondary schools, but they have their conditions of entry. However, if a school decides to use the results of the national tests as an additional entry criterion, we do not see anything at stake in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Basic School Act, which was tabled by colleague Gaber, relates only to one amendment. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that external knowledge verification results are taken into account when entering secondary school. Let me begin by saying that Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not support the proposed law. The reasons for this are largely identical to those recorded in its opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of national knowledge testing is not to select students to enter secondary schools, but it is a function of knowledge verification. As such, it is intended in particular to monitor the quality of the learning process across schools and to promote school measures to raise the quality of teaching. We are convinced that the focus of the students only on collecting points at the end of a nine-year-old entry into secondary school has no positive effects. Those who have children in high school know well that all four years of high school have been preparing students, especially for graduation and at the same time putting pressure on them, so that each high school will be as successful as possible on average. Of course, there is an important difference between high school and primary school. Primary school must be so much more educational, not in any sense, but in particular in promoting the individual and critical thinking of students. The proposed novel was also supported by the Association of Directors of Basic Schools of Slovenia and the Syndicate of Education, Education, Science and Culture. However, the argument of support was that the adoption of the proposed amendment of the law would reduce the pressure on parents and teachers at the end of the school year due to the assessments of their children. This argument seems absolutely unacceptable to us. We know from practice that there is only a small proportion of parents who are often very uncritical in one way or another because they want better grades for their children. They are probably much more troublesome parents who exert excessive pressure on their children and do not take their actual abilities into account. However, a good teacher cannot and cannot give in to pressure from his parents. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the proposed amendment of the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Finally, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings for me, too! In fact, the new government also intervened in the field of primary education. In this mandate, we have met with the first amendment of the Basic Education Act, and the second amendment of the law, one of the key documents is, after all, the law on financing education and education. The amendments in both the first, i.e. the primary school law and the second, in fact, the law are under the control of this government, passed or opposed to the profession. In particular, the Basic Education Act. After a year and a half of this government, Minister Beast proposed a new knowledge-checking system. He shuts it down after the first triad. Finally, the national knowledge check after the completion of the primary school is mandatory, but the results are not taken into account in practice anywhere. And today we are faced with the fact that it is precisely because of the lack of respect for the national examination of high school knowledge that they restrict entry. They limit the entry and will limit it to admission exams. And that's not just a big step back, so you don't want any extra pressure on the already loaded future student. Experts, the General Education Board has also repeatedly pointed out that external verification results should be taken into account, i.e. when preparing criteria in secondary schools, those in secondary schools with restrictions on admission. And that is the possibility of today's change of law. It's not about selection. It's about opportunity. And allow me to read article 1 of the novel. "The achievements of national knowledge testing are additional information on student knowledge and may also be one measure of enrolment criteria in secondary schools. They may be used as an entry criterion, so they may only be used in case of restriction of entry." This amendment of the law gives an opportunity. The coalition argued on the Committee that students must approach the national knowledge check without burden. Devalued teachers should be given their autonomy back, so secondary schools should set entry criteria according to their needs and programmes by limiting their enrolment. Then where is the unburden, I ask my respectable colleagues in case of so-called admission exams? Let me remind you, to avoid all thought of speaking. For national knowledge testing, students in schools are trained systematically. Not on admission exams. And I'm asking you again. What, then, does compulsory knowledge verification serve, this national knowledge check, when it does not actually have any functions? The government states in the explanation of the law or why I do not support the law. The results of the national knowledge check cannot fully ensure a precise distinction between students. Does this mean that the government's desire to make such a basic education in Slovenia in the context of the changes already proposed and not least to make in Slovenia, which will allow for such distinctions or guarantees, is a precise distinction between primary schools and primary education systems. The reason I see in this context is simple and allow me to repeat it as a colleague before me with simple words. The current management of the school ministry wants to relax the legislation so that what has been planned can be achieved. And what was planned? School policy is favored, the plan is a Catholic primary school in each of the six dioceses. So we will also get a new system in the state primary education system, says Catholic primary education. The proposed amendment, which makes it possible to use the achievements of the national knowledge check when entering secondary school by limiting the description to avoid an admission exam, is a positive change. And this change is favoured or supported by the profession, the association of primary school principals, the unions of education, education, science and culture. In short, the profession supports and the government destroys or opposes what the profession actually says yes. In the Slovenian Party, we will not support the decisions of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the vote, which is at 12.55. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 12.55 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposal for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting device, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We move on to the 19th point - on this point, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on National Professional Qualifications will take place on Thursday, 2 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. With regard to the 20th point - the assembly will vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers on Thursday, 2 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on graduation, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. 52 Members and Members voted for 48 against one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill proposal, and I note that the Second reading Assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Please. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, pursuant to paragraph 5 of Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, that the legislature or the Government has not notified me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law would not have been harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 54 Members and Members voted in favour of 53 against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item on the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on high school, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 1. We're voting. 55 Members and Members voted for 10 to 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 1. We're voting. 54 Members and Members voted for 8 to 46. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. The application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be pending. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Members will support this amendment, which is normal, because it has also tabled it. It is a matter of taking into account success in the criteria for enrolment in high school; additionally, if they have to limit entry, the current law says that the knowledge and skills shown will also be taken into account. We don't think that the term "shown skills" is enough for high school, because these things can't be objectified. However, to bring this law to life and to be honest with all, the minister is responsible to the greatest extent, but it refers to the large number of students enrolled and the number of parents involved. Our amendment would allow the Minister, on a proposal from the Slovenian Professional Council for Higher Education, to lay down these criteria so that, in addition to these things that can be derived from learning success in the years when the student has been in primary school, it would also take into account additional restrictions on enrolment, knowledge shown either in school competitions, in republican competitions or elsewhere, while these skills do not fit in high school. The skills shown are formerly in vocational schools or other schools or in music schools. And we believe that if the amendments were adopted, we could still, in the third reading, call for the possibility that these restrictions, which were mentioned in the debate in the National Assembly, would be avoided, and perhaps this amendment, because it could not be rectified now, would be complemented in an even more correct form. Therefore, in order to have a law that would be fair to those who will be enrolled and that they would all be equal before the law, in order to supplement this, because you will see if the text remains as it is, there will be a practice that is already now that you have at least one case in court on the basis of these criteria, that this practice will continue in the future. That's why the Liberal Democracy will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving to the point of individual opinions. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	I myself will support the amendment because I feel that the text of Article 5 as proposed by the coalition is too vague in paragraph 3. And in fact, as an additional criterion, the minister can come up with a lot of additional criteria in one way or another. All those who have or have children who have gone from primary to high school or to high school know how stressful these periods are. These stressful periods further complicate with other criteria, such as the learning success of previous education, with the exception of school competitions or national knowledge tests, I think it is unnecessary to complicate. Therefore, I propose that this amendment of the Liberal Democracy, with which we simplify and limit the Minister in the imagination, which knowledge is otherwise shown, and skills are those that will determine how elementary schoolers will be enrolled in the first year of high school. Let's do this, simplify things for the sake of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. (The vote was 53.)(against 3.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 28th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. Commence application. On behalf of the Group of Members. I ask once again for your application on behalf of the Group Members, once again, please. There's no report. We're voting. The application shall run for reasons of vote in its own name. It's hard to have a session like this with your hands. I was clear and loud, and that's not what you do when you apply. That's the first one. Another time. I ask again, and the start of the application for individual explanations. Here you go, please. Check-in is on. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. In the SDS, as I have pointed out in the introduction, we will not support this law for a simple reason, its only content is the return to solutions that have proved to be practical, both professional and human, as inadequate, which have been of great stress for all schoolchildren, and therefore an extremely conservative retroactive solution, which we oppose in the SDS. We believe that the solutions put forward by the Slovenian government in the legislation that we have already adopted in this mandate are significantly better, and I am also saying this as the father of three children, of whom he will soon enter primary school for the first time, and therefore, of course, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	I will speak as the father of the two children who have already graduated from primary school and, of course, in practice, I will oppose the proposal for a decision because of course I believe that it is appropriate to follow what is also supported by the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia. I will oppose the decision of the home working body led by the gentleman who just spoke to me, I say this as a Member and I speak as someone who has already gone through it, so that, Mr Grims, you may be in 10 years' second opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I think that the law is worthy of support, because those of us who have been monitoring the registration processes for the past two years have been able to identify what is the optimal package of changes introduced by this government, a kind school, what an unconcerned transition from primary to secondary school looks like; and today, when we discussed the school package, the optimal package, we have also found out what is already the proportion of the excellence, the excellence, which is somehow also a possible abnormal one, which in itself speaks of being an additional criterion, namely an external examination of knowledge, and, as an option, this law offers only the possibility of showing up as a criterion for entry where the restriction of entry is, it seems very reasonable to support such a law. For speaking of this as a conservative form, and just remembering how many times it was different to see students and students who had the same excellent success coming from different schools; and the possibilities of balancing and regulating and objective evaluation in assessing the knowledge achieved, it can certainly also be an option, for this law offers only an option. And you are also talking today about not even wanting to allow this option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body for the following reasons. For the first time - after one and a half years of amendments to the primary school law, there have been problems in writing, which we face in every year’s entry when it takes place and after it ends. As a result of this, parental protests, as a result - also the interested public opposes this and as a result, the General Education Council has repeatedly pointed out in its examination of the criteria that external knowledge testing results should be taken into account in the preparation of criteria in secondary schools with restrictions on enrolment. We, therefore, personally think that this legislation, which has been adopted, has caused problems. That's what turned out. And it would be wise what the law says, not that the NPZ is also an integral part of the criteria for entry, but this law says that only if there is a restriction of entry, not that it is, but that the national verification of knowledge may also be one of the criteria for entry. This national knowledge check has so far been such that no one has objected to it, and we just throw it aside with our left hand, we spend a lot of state money, that we have this national knowledge test and it serves not one of our purposes, that is to get one of the fair objective criteria that was the same reach for school enrolment. It is therefore more than justified that I vote against the decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 16. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed value added tax law. On Wednesday 25 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Application for a member group, explanations of vote are in progress. Mr. Cyril Testen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. In our parliamentary group, we will support the law, and we will support it because this law allows for improvements in the way it simplifies procedures. The law is also only the legal basis for all the talk that has taken place in this debate regarding the increase in the tax rate. The tax rate does not increase on the basis of this law, but on the basis of the law on the implementation of the budget, which will be adopted if necessary only for 2008. We are confident that this will not be necessary, so we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Your Honors are here! According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a value added tax law will have a two-way effect. This will be the first time that value added tax will be paid to all persons in the Republic of Slovenia in 2008. As evidence of this, it is a basic public financial act, which is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which you want or do not want in 2008, which is, unfortunately, already expected to raise the budget line - 7.040 - income from value added tax, in proportion to or at the level of VAT increase at a low level and at the level of VAT at a high level. At the same time, allow me to put further disappointment on the part of the Slovenian National Party over the ruling majority, which, according to our assessment without an argument, has rejected without substantive discussion the amendment to Article 145, in which we proposed the elimination of the possibility of raising VAT. According to our assessment, comparing the ratings as previously defined, that is to say, simplifying the procedures compared to the irritation that will touch any of the Slovenians, of course all of us, is unacceptable. We must not look at simplification in the form that will result in the imitation of everything we buy and by what we trade in our society. Therefore, we will not, of course, support the draft law in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I say that we will not support the law because it is not a VAT law, but a VAT raising law. If the Members of the ruling coalition joined our proposals and joined in in conjuring the Prime Minister and Minister Bajuk that the law does not have to have an opportunity to raise them because they will not, and would delete Article 145 in the law, they would be able to amend the law on raising value added tax into a VAT law. Because you did not do this in second reading on your parent's working body, because the government was not willing to listen to the arguments, but it had just said that the VAT raise would be no, but today you are adopting a VAT raise law. Since Article 145 is in law, we oppose the law. We made some very stupid decisions this week. They are legitimate, but in terms of economic and fair distribution of the tax burden, they are wrong and, as we will feel in a few years, they are also politically stupid. With the income law we adopted yesterday, we shared a huge tax burden. With the Law on corporate income tax, we will burden the economy with the payment of this large tax gift to a small group of taxpayers. With the Income Act, we took away the possibility of tax relief from everyone in Slovenia, especially those with the lowest wages. We also took relief from the economy. This will lead to a decline in economic growth, resulting in a more difficult economic situation for businesses and resulting in a more difficult life for hundreds of thousands of Slovenians and Slovenes. And by means of the VAT raising law, we are giving the government the possibility that in 2008, as it has already done, it will already send VAT to the National Assembly, raise VAT to the 21st basic level and 9% lower rate. Members of the ruling coalition bear this political responsibility to give the government this opportunity, and the government has even taken advantage of it. Mr Janša said on Monday that we have not submitted any act involving raising VAT. This is a lie, an act is called the State Budget for 2008 and includes raising VAT on the basis of the law that you will now adopt. We oppose this and call it duplicity, we will not support the law. I suggest you don't pass the VAT raising law either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	We're voting. The vote is under way. 64 Members and Members voted, 46 to 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a real estate tax law. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments were not tabled in the draft law, no third reading of the amendments could be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature or the Government has not warned me that, due to the parent body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 48 against 6. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - this is on the proposal of the law on inheritance taxes and gifts. As part of its consideration of that proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that a third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting under Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. It was subsequently found that this could be because amendments to less than a dozen articles of the amended law were adopted in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Procedural Proposal, please. [[...]] There is no explanation in the procedural proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that 64 Members and Members voted for 46, against 17. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 2 November 2006, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the 10th item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a tax law on watercraft. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 53 in favour against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 12th item on the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on marine fisheries. On Wednesday, 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the lack of conformity of the law adopted by the amendments, the law would not be in conformity with the law of the home working body. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted in favour, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 13th item on the agenda - the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that, due to the lack of conformity of the law adopted by the amendments, the law would not be in conformity with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, and the vote was unanimously voted in favour. [[The vote was unanimous.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 14th item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the energy law. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since the second readings were adopted by amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled that you have received on the bench. I am putting forward the first amendment to Article 2 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Please. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	President, my procedural proposal is as follows. In the second reading of the energy law, according to the authorised representative of the government, the State Secretary said: "The government supports the amendments of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, which defines the energy card as an undocumented document." The amendment that we have before us says, "We think ambassadors of the ruling coalition that the energy card is a public document." I propose that, of course, there is no credible representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of a Secretary of State, a Secretary of State, a Minister, a Chairman of the Authority, etc., that this point, due to a significant change between the first, second and third readings, be postponed to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Members of the ruling coalition first rejected the content proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and turned the public charter into an undocumented document, then of course we warned you of what it meant. You voted that this must be an undocumented document. Then you are on the ground today, and thank God that there are still some credible people in this National Assembly, based on the opinion of the legislative and legal service and what else have you changed by amendment the energy law again into a government proposal. The government isn't here. Madam Secretary of State, Minister, I would like to ask anyone what happened from Wednesday to Friday. Why the government assessed and, I suppose, ordered the ruling coalition to amend the substantive amendment. Above all, I would like to define the government by the amendment of the ruling coalition at third reading. Therefore, there is no ordinary third treatment, so I believe that conditions must be laid down in accordance with Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, that there are representatives who can politically represent the government here and that the government will tell us what is right now, public, non-public or, as is now the final proposal, a public document. I suppose, as it was on Wednesday, even today, most very difficult to follow this debate, either in the media or Members here. Let us take the time for the government to give us a written opinion on this and then discuss it. My procedural proposal is to postpone this to one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On the basis of the procedural proposal by Mr Cwickl and on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, and given that the LDS Group has proposed this, I propose that we vote on whether we should have a third reading of the proposal of this Act at one of the following meetings. Each parliamentary group shall have three minutes to give its opinion before the vote. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	The President, I think that there were some groups of Members who wanted to explain, in accordance with Article 64, paragraph 9, how they would be defined for a procedural proposal. Allow me to make you another procedural proposal. Please note that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there are no conditions, in accordance with Article 235, for the continuation of the point, to terminate the point when conditions are provided, we can return to that. However, the fact that you voted against the proposal put forward by the ruling coalition because of, I don't know, what reasons, but it would still be right to say what leads you to this, either substantively or that you think that Mrs State Secretary is sitting here - I don't see her.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm just saying, there are business conditions for the continuation of the point. That's why we're continuing the meeting. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Mr. Milan Squeakl, you have been reported for discussion on the amendment to Article 2. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	The President, of course, is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by interpreting the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly, and I assume that you see, like the other Members of the ruling coalition, that there is a legitimate representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There are no government representatives, either in the form of the Minister for Economy, the Minister for Environment and Space, the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State from both ministries I have listed. Therefore, we cannot participate in this part of the National Assembly in the Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	Mr Squeakl, I have given you my word to discuss the amendment to Article 2. Please, please, or I'll have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	Yes, Mr. President, I'll be right out. You may also interrupt me, but I must tell you first that we cannot, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, continue the debate on the amendment to Article 2 which changes the content of the energy law. There are no business conditions for this, so we cannot participate in the work of the National Assembly in this way. If you do not interrupt the meeting and provide business conditions, we are predicting obstruction of the work of the National Assembly in the Liberal Democracy Club. In this way, the National Assembly will discuss the key issue of how we will increase energy efficiency in Slovenia, and this key issue is also one of the four key issues that Mr Janez Janša wants to discuss with the other European leaders during the presidency, but there is nothing that we can discuss as if we were, I don't know, in the inn. I think there are business conditions, business conditions require the presence of a government representative who is authorised, especially that representative or that representative who said on Wednesday that the government supports the proposal that this is not a public document. And I don't know if you can play with this question, but we can't participate in the work of the National Assembly. Mr President, if you do not interrupt this meeting, I announce an obstruction on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. In reply to Mr Squill, before I give the floor to Dr. Gantar, who has asked for a procedural proposal, I would just like to say that. I fully agree with you that representatives of the government should also be present at this point. However, the rules of procedure do not state that this is the way it must be. And for that reason, I think the Rules of Procedure are sufficient in this case. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	I will make a procedural proposal, I propose that you put to the vote a proposal to deal with these points in the third reading, including the amendments, on Thursday, 2.11. or Friday, 3.11., at this meeting, in the presence of the legitimate representatives of the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of the Environment and Space, because this is an amendment. And I suggest you put this to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. There is a possibility, on the basis of Rule 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to adopt this proposal by Dr Gantard or to vote on: to propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this Article, including the presence of representatives of the Government, third reading, on Thursday, this is 2.11., after the final vote. A decision will not be taken if one third of the Members oppose it. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 61 Members and Members present for 57 votes against 3. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal to move this point to Thursday, 2 November is adopted. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 15 of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on notariat. On Wednesday 25 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that the law adopted by law would not have been inconsistent with the law on the basis of the domestic working body. Check-in is on. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A well-respected choir. The LDS Group will not support this proposal for amendment of the law, because it is with the executive branch and the Minister of Justice who is strongly subordinated to the Notary Chamber. Nor will it support this law because the Minister centralises power and influence in this area. Because the minister wanted to degrade a notariat as a public service to the level of government public service or the Ministry of Justice. We cannot support the bill either because the government's notary is downgrading as a public servant, while at the same time extending its work to areas where a high level of customer confidence is required for quality work. I will therefore not support the law of the LDS, because it will not assist the Minister of Justice and the Government, who is sweeping the justice and the surrounding areas with a cheese broom and who want to make them inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-27-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch. You're giving up. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 11. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 16th item on the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the bill on offences. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of Rule 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that, due to the lack of conformity of the law adopted by the amendments, the law would not be in conformity with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[48 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 17 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. On 25 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that, because of the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Thursday, 2 November at 9 a.m. One more announcement. Immediately after this closed meeting, the 28th urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice in the large lounge on the first floor continues.
