ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats to calm down and start the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I convened the meeting on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ljubo Germič, Feri Horvat, Sašo Pece, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Boštjan Zagorac, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Flower Zalokar Orazem by 16:00, Majda Širca, Miran Jerič, Aleš Gulič and Dr. Slavko Gaber. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items on the agenda. I welcome everyone. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 6 January 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The LDS delegation proposes to the assembly that the agenda should be extended by considering the act determining the parliamentary investigation to determine all the facts and circumstances and assessing the actual situation in the sale of capital shares of the Capital Company d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. In Mercator d.d., which was carried out on 30.8.2005, it is concluded that the damage to State property occurred and the possible political responsibility of public function holders in this regard during the 2004-2008 mandate. You received a motion on the bench. Before I give my word to the proposer and to the parliamentary groups, allow me a few words. It is a proposal by the LDS Group that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly also include the request of the 31 Members to order a parliamentary inquiry in the so-called Mercator case. At the 11th meeting of the National Assembly on 21 November 2005, I did not put to the vote the then proposal of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups to extend the agenda with the same requirement. I based my decision, as shown in the magnetogram, on the fact that the Commission of Inquiry, which was set up at the request of 39 Members, in defining the object of purpose and the evidence proposals of the investigation, covers all the key aspects which are also required by the groups of 31 Members. This means, however, that the requirement of the 31 Members has already been materially implemented in the context of the 39 Members' earlier request. It was said on November 21st. I'm pretty sure I did the right thing. If we set up another commission of inquiry today to deal with the same cases at the same time, this will be a precedent whereby, in the future, after the establishment of any investigative commission, another group of Members may request the establishment of another or more investigative commission with the same subject matter of investigation. Instead of an investigative committee of the National Assembly in which all parliamentary groups, both positions and opposition, could and would be willing to participate equally, they would have a system of setting up party-friendly investigative committees which would have different decisions on the same matters. I believe that such development would not contribute to the reputation and credibility of the institution of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, so I am still convinced that, in the case of two requests for the establishment of parliamentary commissions, which should address the same content legally and politically correctly, it is the following principle. The priority shall be the first request and, on the basis of the request submitted thereafter, it shall not be possible to establish a commission with the same subject matter of the investigation. If the initial application does not fully include the subject-matter of the second application, it shall be supplemented accordingly. On the basis of a later request, it is possible to establish an investigative committee only on a content which is not the subject of an investigation by the first panel. Respectable. Since these cases are important questions for the National Assembly, I am putting forward a proposal from the LDS Group and thus my previous political decision on this matter in the opinion of the National Assembly. If you reject the LDS proposal, you will also confirm the correctness of my current political decision that I have not allowed the same thing to be established by two different commissions of inquiry. Thank you very much for your attention. I ask, does the representative of the proposer want a word? Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, Mr. President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we referred yesterday to the President of the National Assembly a proposal to extend the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting, an extension with the request of the 31 opposition Members to order a short parliamentary inquiry in Mercator. We think it's an emergency. Thus, such an could not be postponed, since the Constitution provides in Article 93 that a parliamentary inquiry must be determined when 30 Members so require. However, these provisions of the Constitution or the rights of a qualified group of Members cannot be realized in any other way than by placing the requirement on the agenda of a meeting of the national assembly. This was clearly stated by the court in its explanation of the decision, to which a qualified group of opposition Members brought an action against the conduct of the President of the National Assembly when he rejected our request for a meeting of the National Assembly. We understand this explanation from the Administrative Court by acting on his own initiative and contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. He also violated one of the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. We therefore stress that the President of the National Assembly himself cannot decide whether a parliamentary inquiry will be determined or not, as he did in fact by rejecting the inclusion of our request on the agenda of the National Assembly, especially since our request was also substantively and procedurally correct. The right to establish an investigative commission is one of the fundamental tools of control available to the opposition in parliamentary democracy. Therefore, the decision of the National Assembly to order an investigative commission at the request of 39 coalition members can only be understood by its true purpose in preventing the opposition from determining, within its supervisory role, whether and to what extent, in the case of the sale of capital shares in Mercator, there has been damage to state property and political corruption of the highest public function holders. Since we expect you to take into account the reasons given by the Administrative Court, we are again proposing that the agenda of today's 14th extraordinary meeting be extended accordingly under the third paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, first of all, I would like to point out the important fact that to date, and this is that although, Mr President, you mentioned that you did the right thing on 21.11.2005 when you did not put the LDS Group proposal on the agenda, today you are doing something differently, in my opinion today, and then you are doing the wrong thing. This should be emphasized in particular. The ruling of the Administrative Court may have helped you to know that this proposal needs to be placed on the agenda, that you know that the proposal of the LDS parliamentary group for a substantive and part-time parliamentary investigation is different from that of the ruling coalition and that the proposal of the ruling coalition does not fully cover the area of the investigation and the investigation proposed by the LDS Group or Members signed under this proposal and that, of course, such a reasonable and legal assessment requires that this proposal be included; and more than that this proposal is not only accepted today. This is the only way to prevent the negative consequences that any other proposal would have for the development of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia and the political control role of the opposition. Therefore, as we welcome your amendment to the agenda, we also expect the National Assembly to adopt this proposal and in some way to remedy the situation in favour of the development of democracy and the parliamentary role of the opposition in the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much. According to the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, the content of Article 93 is indisputable, after which we should put the issue on the agenda at the previous meeting and, in accordance with this decision, today the State Assembly should have already set up two Commissions of Inquiry. Whether the proposal you have put into debate today will help or not - I must say that your predictions, as you have said, do not give me such hope of greatness and allow the possibility that everything is just a new farce in which it would show how very right it is in this national assembly, including on your part, with one goal of continuing to prevent the implementation of Article 93 of the Constitution and the right also enjoyed by a minority investigation. Secondly, I would like to point out that it would be right to assess together in the legal section what is in fact the same content of the parliamentary inquiry before you could possibly decide on your starting points. It is my responsibility to say that, in the case of the 93 Members and the 91st Members' request, it is not by any means the same content of the parliamentary investigation. One third of the 39 Members' demands may be similar to the content required by us, but in no case is the same content of the parliamentary inquiry. I think you've already found that no reference to the principle of not the same thing twice, in which case it doesn't apply. And you have probably already been taught that some of the judicatures of the Constitutional Court are totally indisputable in this regard, whether a parliamentary inquiry can violate human rights or not. The Constitutional Court finds in these caselaws that it cannot be breached because it is decided in accordance with the Constitution and because the final decision is only at the national assembly but not by the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry. So I believe in your well-intentionedness, only if the decision to rank and thus to set up a parliamentary inquiry is taken. Otherwise, it's just a blinding maneuver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Run. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. Mr. Sok, I'm sorry, I didn't see your hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. If we understand correctly in Novi Slovenija, this proposal to extend the agenda submitted by the LDS was based on a decision of the administrative court. Mr Potč will be angry if we interpret this judgment or this decision as non-jurists, but we have this right as Members, but I will not interpret it, I will read the decision - the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in Ljubljana is under the presidency of the Supreme Judge, Mr Janez Breznik, with the participation of the higher judges of mags. Darinka Marguch and Ziva Mejak as members of the Senate and Vesna Kaltezovic as minutes of the administrative dispute initiated by the complainant, the 31st Chamber of State and Members of the Slovenian National Assembly decided not to list them against the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, France Tsukati: the action is dismissed. For us in New Slovenia, this decision is completely clear, I say again, it is very brief, the case is dismissed, and this is, of course, the most important decision of this judgment or decision, on the basis of such a decision in Novi Slovenije - the Christian People's Party to the enlargement of the agenda with this proposal, as proposed by the opposition, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems to me that all the developments concerning the establishment of another commission of inquiry would be best illustrated by a well-known advertising video when Mr. Tonček comes into the office and says, "Mr. Doctor, I am a mere tuna, but I would like to be Calvo." It is only in this way that I can most plastically mark this desire to set up a new investigative commission that will address the same content that is already fully included in the investigative commission already established. 31 Members decided, after a long verbal multi-month canonada, to sue both the administrative and the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has declared itself unfit and the Administrative Court has dismissed the application. There is therefore no basis for the establishment of another Commission of Inquiry, as requested by the 31 Members. The lawsuits fell, despite the fact that the most prominent opposition lawyers and, of course, some expert on demagogies and other cases were involved in writing a proposal for both courts. Inflation in legal knowledge is also not always productive. I think that all the further procedures that we have witnessed to them, such a negotiation of how someone would lead a process, who would participate, under what conditions the opposition would participate, are precisely in the context of what I have just said. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal to extend the agenda, because we want to respect the Constitution, we want to respect the law on parliamentary investigation, the rules of procedure on parliamentary investigation, and also judicial decisions, and they do not allow any compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr Bajc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to comment on what was happening on the balcony right now. I hope that these are not the supporters of Mr Potsch today, who have shown us this language from the balcony. [[...]] Another thing I'd like to say. Mr President, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the proposal to extend the agenda. Your opening statement, when you have defined or read your arguments, is also not understood as a change in your position with regard to the positions you have had when this decision was first tried on the establishment of an investigative commission. But you yourself have said in the introduction that you will put this decision to the test, and our final decision will be the one to say whether another Commission of Inquiry is being set up on Mercator. If I repeat, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the proposal to expand the agenda of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. There are no other applicants, so I am closing the debate. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card; in this case, the vote may take place. Mr. Squeakle, isn't the card working? We're in a vote, Mr. Squeakl. Before the vote, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u14	I would like to request that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a recess be ordered before a decision is taken on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club for a period of ten minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Mr. Squeakl, that's not possible, that's already been explained. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u16	The statements, the statements that we have heard, the statements that we have heard mainly from the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, say they will of course respect the Constitution, while at the same time voting against the proposal you made, will explicitly violate Article 93 of the Constitution, which says that the Parliament must order a parliamentary inquiry at the request of a third of the members of the national assembly. [[...]] If, of course, you vote against enlargement, you will violate this constitutional right under Article 93 of the Constitution. It is true that you will do so in a procedural manner, but you are doing so. I therefore propose, in accordance with the rules of procedure for which we have the right, a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club prior to the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Mr Cvikl, for the second time before the entire Slovenian public, I read to you the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure on page 111. The second paragraph explains Article 73, which states that before the decision, a part of the national assembly may not be interrupted in the case of decisions concerning the establishment of the agenda. Mr Squeakl, as you may recall earlier warnings, I believe that it was again a pure abuse of the rules of procedure, that you have reached your minutes of discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda is not adopted. Voting on the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members present and 57 votes against 5. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. I'm moving on to one. On the basis of the sixth indent of the sixth paragraph of paragraph 17 above, a proposal for a decision on the appointment of five members of the Programme Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the sixth indent of paragraph 17 shall be made on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the appointment of five members of the Programme Council of the Republic of Slovenia. ARTICLE OF THE RULE SLOVENIA LEGISLATION, PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE SIXteen MEMBERS OF THE PROGRAMME COUNCIL OF SLOVENIA UNDER SEVENTH ALINE OF THE SIXTH PARAGRAPH 17. Member of the law on RT Slovenia. Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of five members of the Supervised World of War II Slovenia. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly, the discussion on all three proposals for decisions will take place together. Proposals for conclusions were submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the text to the President of the Commission, Mr Franz Sušnik, for an additional explanation of the proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on RTV Slovenia provides in the sixth indent of Article 17(6) that five members of the RTV Programme Council of Slovenia shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the political parties, taking into account to the maximum extent possible the representation of the parties in the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the law on RTV Slovenia, applicants, in this case parliamentary groups, must take into account the provisions of Article 17 of the law on RTV Slovenia, which lay down the conditions for persons to be appointed to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. That's what I'm talking The Programme Council may elect or appoint persons who, with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural, educational or any other area of social life, can contribute to the good functioning and promotion of the reputation of public television in both the Republic of Slovenia and abroad. The members of the Programme Council must carry out their work independently and impartially and are obliged to exercise only the interests of RTV Slovenia as public broadcasters. In carrying out their duties, they shall respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the provisions of this Act and shall ensure that the principles laid down in Article 4 of this Law and the Statutes of Work relating to programmes and their creation are implemented. The Programme Council may not elect or appoint persons who, at the time of appointment or during the five years preceding appointment, were members of political parties' bodies, cannot be elected Members or Members of the European Parliament or servants or servants in the European Parliament and officials or officials in the bodies of the European Union. Members may not be elected who were President of the Republic, President or Prime Minister, Members, members of the Council of State, Mayors or Mayors, Constitutional Judges or Constitutional Judges, Ministers or Ministers, Secretary of State or Secretary of State and other officials in State bodies. The Directors-General, the Secretaries-General or the Secretaries-General, the Chiefs-in-Charge of the Authorities and the Government Services, the Directors-in-Charge, the Chiefs-in-Chiefs of the Administrative Units and the Directors or Secretaries or secretaries of the Municipal Administrations may not be elected. The Programme Council shall also be unable to elect or appoint persons who are members of the management, management or control bodies or who are employed in competitive media and persons with ownership in these media, as well as persons employed in RTV Slovenia, with the exception of the three representatives of the employees of RTV Slovenia selected by them. The Programme Council may not elect or appoint persons who are members of the Broadcasting Council and who are employed by the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency and members or employees in other bodies who decide in administrative proceedings to grant frequencies or other rights to media or employees and persons involved in the decision-making processes. Members of the management or supervision bodies of legal persons involved in business with RTV Slovenia may also not be elected or appointed to the Programme Council. Also, the Programme Council cannot elect or appoint a close family member of RTV Slovenia’s leading workers, such as the Director General of RTV Slovenia, the Director of Radio and Director of Television, and those employed in RTV Slovenia, who are identified as leading workers by the Statute. The immediate family members referred to in the fourth indent of the preceding paragraph shall be the spouse or person with whom they live in an extra-marital or registered same-sex partnership – children or adoptives and grandchildren and parents or adopters and other persons living in a common household. On this basis, the State Assembly’s mandate-election commission adopted a decision at its 8th emergency meeting on 18 November 2005 to call on parliamentary groups to propose candidates and candidates for the RTV Slovenia Programme Council by 5 December 2005, taking into account the provisions of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act, which lay down the conditions for persons to be eligible for appointment to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. However, each proposed candidate had to submit a declaration that he was eligible and that he was aware of the conditions set out in Article 17, paragraph 3 and 4, of the RTV Slovenia Act and that he would be ready to act as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The candidates' proposals were forwarded by 7 parliamentary groups, which jointly proposed 7 candidates or candidates for members or members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board. At its 11th urgent meeting, on 5 January 2006, the Commission found that the proposed candidates met the conditions laid down by the law and agreed on five of the proposed candidates, appointed by the National Assembly on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the RTV Act. The candidates proposed are: Dr. Jana Bezenšek, Jože Hribernik, Tino Mamič, Dr. Vladimir Miheljak and Dr. Jernej Pikalo. The Commission notes that the proposal is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the sixth subparagraph of Article 17 and the second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia and proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopts a decision appointing five members or members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. Finally, as President of the Election Commission, allow me to express my gratitude to all those who have participated in the drafting of this proposal for a decision, because I believe that this proposal is a good decision, that it has been made in accordance with the law, that it reflects the proposal for a decision in the composition, as I have said, of the composition of the National Assembly and is, as a whole, in the spirit of the law on RTV Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Members of the Parliament and fellow Members, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, will support the proposal of the mother's working body on the composition of the Programme Council as well as the Supervisory Council, as prepared or voted on the home working body. In doing so, I would like to express our opinion or position on what is happening or how these candidates are selected. Again, it happened on the working body that some colleagues and colleagues were psychics and told us or explained how we would not be able to choose two of the seven candidates from the opposition and three from the position. That we do not know what is public and what is secret, but the opposite has happened, we have chosen two candidates from the opposition, three from the position, and we have allowed the names and surnames of members of the election commission to be written on all ballots and that they can do what they want with these ballots. Second. It was once again obvious to us or some people wanted to be clairvoyant and they said we wouldn't know regional coverage, we wouldn't be able to select experts, we wouldn't know, I don't know what we were talking about, or we were talking about one, two, three, twelve, and I don't know how many other regions. I think and we are confident with the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we have taken the utmost account or, I will say, elected according to the composition of the proposed candidates - I think once the directory was presented and composed of 185 names, that we have taken the region as much as possible. And probably those who have tried hard and tried to figure out where individual candidates for members of the Programme Council come from - which is very well covered by our Slovenia. However, if we went to 20 regions, the regional principle could not be taken into account at all, given that only 16 of them were on this list, if we were 12 years old, I think one area fell out, but unfortunately also proposals on the candidate list made up of 185 candidates were not possible. And perhaps a word, two around the composition of the five members of the Supervisory Board, which we will also confirm today, and the perceptions of the party composition. I think it is exactly the same, at least as far as the leading party in the RTV body so far as the new one is concerned, there were two of them before, and there are two of them today. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as we say, will fully support all three lists that have been adopted and, in the notes, "public vote" confirmed by the Commission's mandate-holder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the first sentence, allow all of us to enjoy great happiness and health together in the new year, for the first time in this majority. Well, in the Slovenian National Party we said that the law on RTV was adopted. This law has been adopted and the law also provides that the Programme Council is to be appointed and that the Supervisory Board is to be appointed. And the law must be respected and realized, and the first of the first to do so is us. Respect for this law and the possibility of further work resulted in the appointment of a Programme Council and a Supervisory Board. Article 17 itself is very precise and also sets out the obligations of this National Assembly in the law which we have adopted in this National Assembly, i.e. the obligations at two points, at the 1st point, where the National Assembly appoints 5 members on a proposal from political parties to the Programme and Supervisory Council, and the continuation of the 17th indent, which states that "the highest possible consideration must be given to the representation of political parties" - it is probably meant in the National Assembly. Now, to understand what customer representation is, it can be the size of customers, it can be the number of customers - let us leave. To talk today about the decision and the work of the commission about the amount of politicization and how much there is, it makes no sense, the facts are given, the names are given. In the Slovenian National Party, we prefer to say more about the 16 later. It is important for the Slovenian National Party to appoint five members to the Programme Council that they are the people who will carry out their tasks with their knowledge, which are very clear and most important. It is important that among them are a doctor of science, a university graduate lawyer, two economists - a university graduate and a doctor of political science. This is supposed to be one of the good work guarantees. Again, even more important than Article 17 is Article 16 in the Law itself, which sets out the content to be done by the Programme Council independently of, this is clearly written, politics and political will and in the well-being of the Slovenian and Slovenian institutions. In the Slovenian National Party, we have paid more attention to the appointment, which is called either by lot or neutral determination, the surrounding of a few less than 200 candidates of 16 members to the Programme Council. In the public call issued, it was very well stated - in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - to take account of the regional representation of candidates from various parts of Slovenia. Now, whether or not the election and appointment committee has succeeded in this, we cannot say that five of them are from Ljubljana, two from Nova Gorica, two from Maribor, and one from Celje, Murska Sobota, Radovljica, Cerkelj and Trbovelje as representative of the Red Cross. It would probably be very difficult to locate content between the 16s, i.e. education, content structure, or linguistics or whatever, and of course spatial distribution. An interesting analysis is that among the 16 members elected on the committee, there are as many as three players and three journalists and three linguists, which, of course, is understandable and probably also useful in their faithful and honest work. There are also historians, sociologists, economists, doctors, even two, theologians. It holds something - in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that we can talk about the non-representation of musicians. That's a mistake. I know it's hard to find, but that's a mistake. It's not music production. It's in the public office. I think it's a little over 10%, if not more. And without a musician among the 16 names, there's a mistake that's just happened according to the decision-making method, but it would have to be corrected. I'm sure of that as far as there's any chance. And if you allow another word or two on the appointment of five members of the Governing Council. These members too are people who meet the legal requirements and regulations. As I said, two economists, a graduate journalist, a Master of Legal Sciences and a Master of Veterinary Medicine. I think that the education of these five people according to their tasks is appropriate, because once again I stress that more important than Article 17 is Article 16 which speaks of the tasks of the Programme Council and - I do not know - the number of the Article which speaks of the role of the Supervisory Board. In view of the fact that the law has been passed, given that Kviaz has done difficult and difficult and long-term work, I think it would be good for us in this national assembly to accept the details, to listen to the mistakes that each of us will see. I do not want and do not want to politicise on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. I'm talking about the profession, more about the profession, more about the honest work, more about the conscientious work of the institution, more about the public law. I've pointed out that it's not good that there's too little representation of musicians. I stress once again, and I hope that the other colleagues will also lead the debate in this direction. For our desire and desire is that the bodies required by the new law be set up, formed, and carried out a fair work forward for the benefit, of course, in particular of a good and quality program. With regard to the composition that a large number of playwrights, I hope and wish that in the public institute of RTV Slovenia, we will receive more Slovenian cultural performances or games, or radio dramas, in both radio and television, that we will receive more objective reporting in the Slovenian public institution than it has been so far, because not everything is unobjective, but more objective reporting, as has been the case in the world of diplomat journalists who have already made a lot of progress in their work. In particular, that work will also be in financial and other areas, and that the attitude towards the workers of a public institution, which we consider to be a common stage worker, will not be the Director-General, that the relationship will, given that there are also sociologists, including economists, including doctors, that this relationship will be fair and that it will give people the opportunity to do good and good work. But it is a condition for good and quality work that we start to comply with this law conscientiously, that this cycle runs out, that the work of the Programme and Supervisory Council in the right direction runs out. However, the results will be evident after experience, as far as I was concerned, after a good year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Neither DeSUS nor DeSUS were in the front lines and the hottest when the law was being drafted, and not when it was adopted. However, we, it must be said, have supported the law for reasons that are probably understandable to all of us: because the situation in this area is not the best, because we know that something has to be done and we have contributed our support to it. Now we have the law, we have the intended organs, we have a number of candidates, and it probably doesn't make sense to tarry about how we've adopted a more or less bad marriage. We must mention, however, that we are not the most excited about the fact that even in our view, representatives of individual groups are missing. For example, we have to say for sure that our candidates have not been elected and therefore we have a legitimate statement, or that those representatives who have been proposed by the foreigners from the SLOMAK species have not been elected. We estimate that it would be better if some other proposals were taken into account. We know that it has not been possible for all to be taken into account, and now all we have to do is look at the names that are proposed for candidates. And our conclusion, the conclusion of the DeSUS Group, is that there are many respectable individuals among them, including those who can provide proper work with their personality; that there is a whole range of experts among them, and that it would be unfair for one of the individuals who would not support me, cancel or not vote for the lists. So the DeSUS Group will vote in favour. And if I say a little metaphorically, as we voted for the law, the walls and the clenched teeth, we have some concerns now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! In accordance with the Radio Television Act, the National Assembly should appoint members to the broadcasting authorities by 12 January, i.e. the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. These are the tasks entrusted to the National Assembly by the new Radio Television Act, and today or tomorrow we will also have to make this important decision. Last year, however, the debates on the media space, in particular on radio broadcasting and its task, and on the role of informing the public. The law transmitted by the government passed through all stages of the legislative process, including the verification of the people's will at the referendum; nowhere has it been broken, although everything has not gone as smoothly as anyone might have thought. At all stages of the hearing and in all debates and debates, there were a lot of talk, a lot of slander, a lot of instigation, misleading statements, including gallbladders, many very unfounded and other facts, as well as a lot of well-founded but interestingly, these justifiable reasons had a lower response in the public than anything else. The media, as it is said, have devoted themselves to the adoption of this law as nothing else, and this is also happening now, in the implementation phase of individual provisions of the law. In fact, in Slovenian history there were very few such laws that would have received so much media support, and perhaps even the question of whether the reasons and substantive issues have been sufficiently explained and also justified. Nevertheless, citizens have decided that it is necessary to amend the law, that amendments are needed, that the content needs to be corrected and that new and different bodies are needed, that a change should also be made in the way those authorities are appointed, that their powers and more should be re-examined. To put it briefly, citizens have also decided by public declaration that a radio reform is needed. The new law introduces significant changes, which are also significant improvements compared to the previous law, as they are otherwise governed by powers between the authorities of the institution, between the Programme and Supervisory Board and the Director. The conductive model of the proposal, which allowed only part of the public to propose candidates for the Programme Council, has changed the model that is clear, transparent and open and actually allows the public and civil society institutions to propose candidates for the Programme Council at their discretion. As many as 16 of the 29 members of the Programme Council, that is about 60%, the National Assembly must choose from the proposals of the public and civil society. The Commission has done a very difficult job of selecting 16 candidates from more than 230 proposals for members of the Programme Council, and most of these proposals have been very respectable, capable and well-established candidates who would certainly carry out their work in a responsible, quality and public interest. There were few applications that could challenge their expertise and reputation. We can be pleased that a number of initiatives have responded to the call and that many people have also reported, and in some ways we have got a picture of who civil society considers fit to work in the broadcasting bodies or in the programming board of television. By voting, as it is said, we have chosen from among the proposals of civil society and the public the established candidates of the various candidates, the candidates are different profiles, they come from different regions and they are also certainly forward-looking plural. I therefore believe that this choice will allow for a much greater plurality and openness of radio broadcasting and that their decisions will ensure the fastest possible implementation of the law and also the best possible implementation of the public service. The selection of that part of the candidates for the programme board proposed by the political parties was expected. Similarly, in selecting candidates for the Supervisory Council, although many who are somehow learning to move, something may not have been clear. However, as always, they asked too slowly and too late a question to get the right explanation. We can also be very pleased that the voting process has been public, that it can be seen in anyone's ballot in any round, and that no one has disputed the transparency of the vote, and very few comments have been made on the choice of candidates. It has never been chosen as transparently as it is this time, which just proves that this coalition is different from all the previous ones and that it has taken serious responsibility and the public of the work, that it is also much more open and correct. We are not hiding anything, we are open, we support good and well-founded proposals, and we are not ashamed of our decisions, and I am sure that we have made good decisions and decisions this time, at least as far as our group is concerned. Unfortunately, we must find that the two-hour debate before the vote was such that it could somehow be more embarrassing, it was pathetic, insulting, it was full of instigation, lies, suspicions, slanders, unnecessary questions, and in fact I regret that some of the famous cultural workers and cultural policies of the previous period were taking the lead in this discussion. And I am also sorry that these discussions are also becoming the standard in the work of the committees and also in the work of the National Assembly. I don't think that's very good for the reputation of this house. When the vote was over, everything else happened, none of those bad words came true, but no one was able to say an apology, and I must say that I also understand this level of work and action in the National Assembly. Our parliamentary group will also support and expect all the lists, that is to say, for the Supervisory Council and both for the Programme Council, and we expect that this will soon help to improve the quality of RTV and also increase the objectivity of what citizens deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we have discussed this matter for a long time and many times in the LDS Club, but today we find that by adopting the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, the promise of a coalition on a better programme, a lower subscription and a third programme has unfortunately not yet been implemented. By adopting the proposal for decisions appointing 16 members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Board and the proposal for a decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, our forecasts will come true. Radiotelevision Slovenia is thus transformed from public television to government and state television. The public Radiotelevision of Slovenia should be a universal public interest, any support in the 21st century, of course, means only a step back in the degree of democracy achieved. Today, we are witnessing this appointment as yet another proof of the way we work and the thinking of the new authorities, the democratic standards already achieved, and it is more than obvious that the work of these measures by Slovenia does not lead forward and towards better. During the adoption of the law on the referendum campaign in the LDS, we argued that the law, through the appointment of members of the supervisory and programme council, increases government or coalition control over the management and management of Radiotelevision Slovenia and changes the Radiotelevision of Slovenia from public to state. However, the Programme Council will be politically subordinated to the current authorities and will have such an important impact on the radio and television content as well as, of course, the free political marketing of the ruling coalitions, today's positions, before every single local and national election. In fact, this means the expulsion of civil society from the public administration body. In doing so, the ruling policy ensures full control over public broadcasting and, of course, creates, not publicly, but state television. The new Supervisory Board, which decides on organisational and financial matters and even adopts the statutes of the institution, is a completely unscrupulous government body. After the taste of the government, there will be six members in the 11-member Supervisory Board. This means that from now on, the government coalition will directly decide on organisational and financial issues relating to Radiotelevision of Slovenia, even though this television is not financed from the state budget, but from a subscription that we pay virtually all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. The list of 16 candidates for the Programme Council shows that regional representation is not ideally covered, it could be better than it is. With this story, the centralisation of Slovenia continues and deepens. The main drawback is that there are no representatives or representatives of writers, musicians among the members of the Programme Board. Even filmmakers, not to mention athletes, are not adequately represented. We also miss the appointment of experts or experts in the media field. It also seems harmful to us that representatives and representatives of prominent and important civil society organisations in Slovenia have not found a place in this important body. We have also seen about this kind of programming world in LDS when this law was formed and our concerns and fears appear to have been justified. The composition is fully in line with the wishes of the authorities, and all those who helped the coalition to uphold such a law are also paid. In a large-scale debate at the Election Commission, some pointed out that they should also attach their decision on the proposed candidates to the opinion of someone on the law. Of course, this is not the criteria laid down by law. Among the candidates for the appointment of members to the Programme Council are quite a few who have supported the plan now being implemented by the Janš government. Apparently, the coalition wants to have in the world of RTV those who agree with their approach or, worse yet, that they are compatible with the ruling policy. For both RTV Slovenia’s governing bodies, the voting machine of the government majority has clearly chosen, both in the mandate-holder committee and in the national assembly, the people who best fit the narrow political criteria and interests of the current government. Thus people will decide on the appointment of key people to RTV Slovenia, including editors. In the LDS, we do not agree in such a way to set up a supervisory committee, nor does the Programme Council in its entirety. The term of office in the elections is not a mandate for everyone in this country. The proposal for a decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board is also not in line with what the law provides for, as the representation of political parties in the National Assembly is to be taken into account. However, the composition of the Supervisory Council was also expected for us, although the proponents promised that opposition representatives could play a dominant role in the supervisory councils, I stress the predominant role. We do not support the appointment of such a programming and supervisory committee in the LDS, because the first supports something that belongs to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and the second means that the government, namely the coalition, the ruling position, will also again control itself in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are no more doubles. Everything is more or less clear. From today on, when the government majority approves the new members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, we will also actually get the government Radio Television Slovenia. This will ultimately ensure the direct involvement of the current current policy in the management of the RTV house and thus, indirectly, also ensure the side effect of pressure on journalistic freedom. Today's proposal by the members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board confirms our announcements when we adopt a new law that the sole purpose of the amendments proposed by the amendments is to make, in a formal, legal way, under the cover of democracy, the will of the government majority in this National Assembly financially and humanely subordinate public RTV exclusively to the needs and wastes of government policy. This purpose was also followed by criteria for the selection of members and members of these two highest authorities of the RTV House. Therefore, we do not support Members and Members of the Social Democrats of both proposals. So far, in the RTV programming world, the majority of civil society representatives have chosen their own representatives. Of course, it is always possible to say that these individual civil society institutions, which have chosen, were also a hostage of political interests. No one has ever denied it. But today this interest in politics is even legal. The choice of civil society members in the RTV programming world was made by the political parties to the government majority in this national assembly. If politics had to secure and choose influence in civil society institutions, today the ruling majority has taken discretion and decides for themselves who is the representative of civil society and who can represent it both in the programming world and in the supervisory council of the RTV House. The result is more than illustrative. Three members of 16 members received Catholic societies, in addition to directly proposing two other members of the religious communities to the Programme Council. For example, representatives - today has already been mentioned - musicians, athletes, disabled people, acquaintances, children's and youth programme creators and areas and many others no place in the programming world. That's a change. And let's face it, that's a big change. Otherwise, we will soon have the opportunity to see if this selection of the government majority really takes into account the provisions of Article 17 of the RTV Act, which states, inter alia, that "that in the world there can be elected or appointed persons who, with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural, educational and any other area of social life, can contribute to good functioning and to enhancing the reputation of public RTV both at home and abroad", the end of the quote. However, it should be pointed out that this same government majority did not allow them to become new members of the RTV Council, including those individuals, prominent citizens, even more prominent experts at home and abroad who opposed the content of the new law. This was one of the key exclusion criteria in the selection of 16 members of 185, as far as they were in the narrower selection. This can also be demonstrated empirically through ballots. Even in the selection of the members of the Supervisory Board, it has been shown how important the choice is for the largest government party, that is, the SDS, given the new powers that the RTV Supervisory Board has vis-à-vis the former. Although the government will appoint 4 out of 11 members of the Council and 2 other members will be appointed employees in the RTV House, the government majority also decided on the National Assembly Committee to demonstrate its purpose and the voting power it has. That, as the third most powerful parliamentary party, the Social Democrats did not get a seat on the Supervisory Committee and the SDS 2 members, was a pure political decision of the government majority. But you admit it or you don't. And it's legitimate. All right. Therefore, without hair in the language of Social Democrats, we can also say that these two proposals that we have on the table today are both a political agenda of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Council, as its actors, the members of the government majority, have been politically motivated in choosing. Without much analysis, it can quickly be found that the Roman Catholic Church has ensured the greatest impact through the so-called civil society in the RTV programming world. And on the other hand, in the control world, this dominant city has secured the SDS. This is a well-known sample used in the supervisory boards and management boards of companies in which the country also has its shares through the KAD and the SOD. That's where the dominant SDS is, too. In short, nothing will happen, not even on RTV, which would not be politically compatible with the cabinet in Gregorčič. That's where the government's seat is. In view of the actions of the executive power so far, when it failed to resist this governmental temptation, to regulate matters with power, including arrogance, if necessary, will be similar in this case. That is why I finally have one very concrete, simple proposal. In the framework of the parliamentary channel, the Programme Council should be given its place for direct transfers of its meetings. In this way, viewers and taxpayers will have a direct opportunity to monitor the fulfillment of the promise. Let me just make three promises that I think are the most important. Adoption of the decision on a lower RTV contribution. Another time. They accept a better and culturally-quality and socially more reliable TV program. We haven't had this on RTV until now, according to the law's proponents. And a third. And how each electricity user will have a direct impact on the implementation and quality of the RTV programme. So Members and Members of the Social Democrats, let me say again, we will not support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr Aloyz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, it would be difficult to find someone who would say that this choice was entirely satisfactory. It is that the number of cities is limited and, despite the fact that this programme council, which is why we also went to the referendum and the referendum, citizens and citizens have decided that the law as such is acceptable, and today we must vote in both the programme council and the monitoring body of public radio and television in accordance with the applicable law, as the law dictates. As far as the five members of the programme board who could have been selected by political parties are concerned, it must be said that the power ratio, the position - the opposition, of these five members, is 3 to 2. And that, in fact, all the biggest political parties, as represented in this National Assembly, have received each one representative. The political choice then continued according to this arithmetic also in the supervisory council, where the political parties proposed five representatives and here too the ratio was envisaged 3 to 2. Finally, it was concluded that the Democratic Party had withdrawn its pensioners for certain reasons. A city has opened up, and so has its representative in the supervisory council, either a representative or, if I say so, a Hungarian national community. I do not know when it happened in the previous term to open up the possibility of the national community being represented in such an important institution under all these restrictions. This time this option was created. Of course, there were the most debates on the Elections and Appointments Commission. Also in the media, the focus was on how we elected 16 representatives of civil society. Some of you claim that these are not representatives of civil society, that they are representatives of, I don't know, political parties. My predecessor went even so far as to speak, and some of the media also writes that there are the most elected representatives of the Roman Catholic Church, and that is not true at all. All of these 219 and 214 names have been proposed by different civil associations, and some have also proposed themselves. In fact, 29 of these 214 names did not meet the conditions in accordance with the criteria described. It is true that, if we can call it that, many known names have fallen off in Slovenia, most of the time or all of them lacked consensus. Someone simply proposed them without asking them, so we conclude in New Slovenia whether they agree. He simply made a proposal and then there was no agreement, and that was the reason why we excluded 29 names in a special working group called KVIAZ. So there were 185 names left, one of these 185 then subsequently resigned itself and finally there was a proposal of 184 names left, and of course we were faced with a very difficult task, how then of these 184 names to choose 16 best. Of course, I know that it is possible to say here from different perspectives that this is missing or that this area of our social reality is not adequately represented or not represented at all. But if you are limited, then there is the fact that a written regional principle has to be respected in law, and something quickly happens that someone has not been elected to this body should be. From this city as New Slovenia's Member, I apologize to all those who have not been elected, for it is 184 names which can undoubtedly be said that everyone deserves to be in this body. But it was necessary to make a choice on the basis of a vote and I must say that each of these candidates who was elected had to receive the majority in the working body first, says 11 votes and more, and that the national assembly would also have to confirm this proposed list by a majority of the votes of all Members. It is said that the proposed Programme Council and the Supervisory Board will have to vote again in this National Assembly by 46 votes. To speak then, on this point, that in this programming world, I do not know to what extent the Roman Catholic Church is represented, in fact, is purely sedition, given that we know that 70% of the citizens and citizens of this country have declared in the inventory that they are members of this institution. That is where I belong, and I am proud that those who are recognized as Christians in this country have gained so much confidence at this time and will also receive it, I hope, in this national assembly. These are unique figures in the Slovenian space, which have been somehow pushed aside for such or other reasons up to this point, and now this possibility has opened up for them to be recognized and recognized as trustworthy. Once again, these are not representatives of the Roman Catholic Church, but representatives of the people and they have been proposed by various institutions of civil society. The Roman Catholic Church has only one representative elected by the President of the State, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. And all those who say otherwise, spread some general ingrained idea and some pretenses, mainly one big shift into this Slovenian political space, which, fortunately or sadly, some bright and become normal. After this vote, of course, this programming council will have to start its work, with all that is imposed on it in this law. And the first big job that awaits him is the selection of the director of RTV, the director then with his powers to go forward, and in New Slovenia we are confident that in some foreseeable time this RTV will actually come to life as most Slovenes and Slovenes expect that the reports in this house will become tolerant, tolerant, honest and that we will actually come to some normalisation through this. As far as the national council is concerned, we also want and will do everything we can to ensure that normalisation in this area will be established as soon as possible and that citizens and citizens, as you have determined before me, will be able to pay, see and hear what their elected representatives in this national assembly are saying, what they are doing, and that they can then, every time in the elections, decide on this basis, who will be given the mandate to represent them. Thank you very much. In New Slovenia, we will support these proposals that are before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sok. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Thank you, President. I'll start where my colleague Sok ended up. He's talking about cheating. Although, of course, the government coalition did not work out exactly as it had decided, the selection of 16 members of the programme board was not smooth, my colleague Tanko himself said earlier, but most are elective and have voting power. And most of the names of civil society are all yours. Those civil society, of the 200 names that are being proposed, which is circulating, as I announced when we considered this law and adopted it, around the Republican Assembly. There are still some additional names, and hold what colleague Tanko says is a plural visual composition, but it is plural only to the extent that one view, the view of a leading political option, of course, is not threatened. It's all about cheating so much. So viewers and viewers, listeners and listeners will have the opportunity to see for themselves. Let's keep going. You're setting yourself up with this software world, especially the software world, and I'm focusing on a new mirror that is supposed to show you that you are the most beautiful and the best in this country. When another mirror happens, which tells you that you are not the most beautiful, that beauty is drying you, that you are not doing the right thing, you are crossing it out - the anti-corruption commission, the polytbarometer, and it will follow. Still, viewers, audiences, and listeners remain the same. You can't change that. In fact, the government coalition, through a better public media approach, exerts a certain influence. But sooner or later, I am sure that the addressees of our operation will overlook and find out for themselves what is the value of production, what is the value of the program that will be produced by the public agency under your influence. You will appoint directors, you will appoint editors, and they will produce a program for you. I doubt that the program will be as appealing as the Berlusconi is to be good, knowing your views, knowing your choices and knowing that as much money as is happening in Italy, when the Berlusconi overruns some capital, here we do not make a lot of money for large productions, for large productions that are popular, that attract ratings, is not. As a listener and viewer, I doubt today that I will be satisfied with such a program. But time will tell. I'm not even gonna talk about the control world. My friend Kumer's already said enough. Most in this supervisory world are government and the very body that has most of those who are controlled cannot control it alone. That's why you can't believe in this organ. It follows that I will not support the proposal of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. Since Mrs Uhanov and Capuder have changed, Mr Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! The law on RTV was adopted in this National Assembly and then reconfirmed at the referendum. The law lays down in its provisions the composition of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, which we are discussing here today. The Programme Council shall be composed of 29 members, of which 16 members shall appoint a National Assembly on a proposal from viewers and audiences of RTV programmes Slovenia, universities and universities, associations of associations or their organisations, in particular in the fields of art, culture, science and journalism, other forms of public life and civil society, with the exception of political parties. These, however, appoint five of their members in this national assembly. On the Commission's term of office, we have selected 16 proposals, which I hope will be endorsed today by this National Assembly, of the 184 members proposed by qualified candidates who met the terms of the public call. When we look at the list of proposed candidates, we can see that we have achieved the envious regional representation of individual regions of Slovenia in this election, and I think that their expertise is good enough, although I miss more candidates or members of the new world in the field of technology and science. Personally, I also regret that several of the proposed candidates were invalid and did not comply with the terms of the public call. I am sorry for the fact that there have been several very high-quality candidates in the field of journalism, in particular artistic fields, as well as in the field of technology and science. I think these candidates would have had a lot of opportunity to be chosen and could sit in this world. On the part of the opposition, it was repeatedly heard that there would be coalition control over public broadcasting through the programming world. I am convinced that the candidates that we have proposed on the election committee are too upright and sovereign, each in their own field, so that we can afford something like this for ourselves. Moreover, I am convinced that they have their own view of the world, which, I am sure, may be different from that of the current opposition. I am also convinced that democratic standards of decision-making on public RTV with elected members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board will improve, which will also affect the quality and transparency of the work of the public institution, and in particular the democratic and full information of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. We have before us the implementation of one of the important tasks of bringing to life the new law on RTV, which will help this important institution to act as expected by most citizens and citizens of Slovenia: quality, both business and programme, responsibility, transparency, transparency and economic, independent of politics and some of the current and former influential political lords, not to mention public letters: Dear Tone, dear Borut. For all this, it is necessary to appoint new people in the programming and supervisory council who are reputable, with appropriate references, which are in principle and responsible, people who think with their heads and who can represent and defend their views in the good of the institution, viewers and all of us who will try to enable the institution to meet the challenges of the future both organisational, creative and financial and technological. So we have people's names ahead of us, a new suit that I believe is meant to provide us with all this work in the institutions of the institution. It has always been shown that they do not stand by the opposition's claim that the new law on RTV of Slovenia increases political control over the performance and management of RTV in order to threaten the independence of journalistic reporting, to reduce alarmingly the already established standards of democracy. I'm saying your fears are too much. These claims, however, are dishonest, unfair and, in most cases, malicious. In such discussions, I always think of what the Slovenian proverb says: "Everybody judges by himself". I submit that the selected candidates of 214 proposals proposed by civil society are from societies, institutions, institutions, religious communities, journalists, individuals and so on prominent citizens, of course different professions and attitudes. I have no doubt that the proposed candidates will work with their conscience and full responsibility. Let's just look at their references and their proponents. It is not only their reputation, but also the reputation of the candidates, and I have no doubt that the candidates themselves and those who have proposed it are aware of it, because the reputation is something that has been growing for years and can be lost in a moment. The responsibility of the selected candidates is great, given the expectations that they will really safeguard the independence and plurality of RTV. Many civil society have therefore proposed a total of 214 candidates for 16 cities. I strongly doubt that the system so far has been better when only a few parts of civil society have been chosen, I do not know who has chosen them, proposed their candidates, in most cases of their choice. It is known that some prominent members of the world have stepped out of the world in protest of such policy and appointment, such as Mr Rudi Sheligo, Mr Milan Dekleva, Mrs Rosvita Pesek, Mr Aleš Berger. In particular, I would like to point out what has been said in the debates, when adopting the law, that 8 members of the Programme Council will be replaced in two years' time and that 8 members of the Programme Council will also be replaced every two years. Of course, the candidates will have a four-year term. I have no doubt that the proposed candidates in the Programme Council are able to adopt, on a proposal from the Director-General, a programme production plan that is in line with the financial possibilities of the programme scheme, to give opinions on the proposal for a financial plan, to consider comments and proposals from viewers and programme audiences and to identify, appoint and resolve the Director-General and to decide on other matters where the law or statute so provides or whatever the law provides. It is also certain that the proposed candidates for the Supervisory Board are able to adopt a financial plan and an annual report, monitor the operation of RTV, monitor the management of business books, determine the price of services and anything else required by the law. The situation of RTV Slovenia, which is truly not good either business or software, will certainly improve with the more legally defined tasks and competences and respected professional, responsible and principled people. I can tell. And this cannot be denied, from the annual reports of the Governing Council. It is right that the Supervisory Board will keep an eye on the business of the institution. However, he will not intervene in any way in the policy of programming, because the law does not give him these powers. RTV is financed through public funding, citizens' contributions to RTV programmes and from the state budget, where taxpayers’ funds are. Therefore, there must be clear powers and responsibilities between the institutions and, above all, there must be professional and responsible people in the bodies. All proposed candidates for the Supervisory Board have references and practice, some in the field of governance, others in the field of business or finance. Therefore, any doubt as to the inability of the proposed proposals is superfluous. Nothing's wrong, even if we're individuals, maybe we don't like all the candidates the best. I also think that maybe someone else in the 214 candidates would be better than some of the proposed ones. The mandate-election commission has made a choice ahead of us, in which both the candidates and the opposition are candidates. I will therefore support such a proposal myself, although it also appears from today's debate that all parts of civil society are not represented, for example, musicians, but not all can be included, because cities are only 16. I will always defend the undeniable fact that success is possible only when the people in the responsible places are capable. There are responsibilities and challenges before the new programming board and the new supervisory board, but the composition of one and the other assures me that the new set will be part of what is expected of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As a citizen and as a Member, I actively participated in the adoption of the law on RTV, of course on the part of those who thought the law was bad. In particular, the way the Council of Experts and the Governing Council were appointed seemed to me to be one of the most questionable points in this law. But the law is here, and I would expect that the ruling coalition will now be very pleased, because it will be able to implement what it has written in the coalition contract and that, in its qualification, the opposition will be much more moderate than it is, and less nervously spread very sharp words at the expense of different views. That's what this is about. It's about plurality of opinion. And if I ask myself whether 16 proposed candidates and candidates for the Programme Council are politically neutral, then I answer this question that they are not politically neutral. However, we are trying to prove that these are the proposals of civil society, of course, if I understand civil society as one of the candidates that the Catholic Church is the most numerous representative of civil society, then of course I can say that this part of civil society has received a core part of the programming world. Among the representatives of civil society who received a seat in the programming world are the Catholic Educators Society, the Slovenian Catholic Educators Society, the academic Catholic Association. As a long-standing member of various cultural societies, I miss the representative of the association of cultural societies, the representative, the most numerous association of cultural societies. However, it has succeeded, say, the cultural society of Sveti Jurij or, say, the cultural society of Dornberk, that it has received a representative representative in the programme world with its proposal. What am I trying to say? It is simply that I do not believe, although all procedures have been taken into account in the selection of 16 proposed members and members of the expert board of the programme board, forgive me that it is only possible to refer to professional references in the first round of as much as half of the members of the programme board from 184 proposals. Without prior negotiation, this did not work, as it did not go in the next step. Well, there's something about this list of members and members of this joy. For the first time, that regional representation is dispersed, for example, if it is ideal, I do not know that after all, one third of women are involved in this world and that I am even closer to retirement than at the beginning of work, I am glad that in this programming world, most of those groups of citizens and citizens that we can call experienced people have received. In fact, only three are under 50 years old, six are between the ages of 50 and 60, five are between the ages of 60 and 70 and two are even 70 years old. This means that people with experience in this programming world have been given a truly weighty recognition and this is something quite different that is happening in terms of appointments to leadership functions in the economy, where we see that we have received a series of 30-year-olds who are extremely good and we attribute to them the decency to be able to be good, creative and not know how to run companies that are entrusted to them. I must say that, of course, it is also a pleasure to see that even three individuals have had this opportunity to bring their candidates into the programming world, and I mean, of course, the player Dareta Valič, who succeeded with his proposal, and someone else. So I see no reason why the ruling coalition with the proposal before us would not be as pleased as it is with us, but I do not see any reason why this proposal for the programming council itself should be supported, but I expect from the ruling coalition, and in particular from the Minister of Culture, that it can be achieved with this programming council, i.e. from both coalitions and ministers, so that a referendum promise can be realized, what a very high-quality programme awaits us in this programming world and that all the other forecasts that have been made when we spoke about this law can also be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. The word is from Master Franz Žnidaršič. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all. I am very pleased to accept this proposal from the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, because the new names give me the hope that we will also see new content. I imagine the embarrassment of the election commission, when of the 214 names that had all the weights that came from some environments, it was a difficult task for them to choose 16 and then 5 people. We have already heard which criteria had to be respected and the task for them must have been very difficult. I certainly expect the proposed candidates to be caught in their work, to work constructively with good proposals, and that there will be no disagreements, or as we have heard from previous councils, and that half of the members have been replaced within one term. I don't think that's going to happen with the proposed candidates. In particular, because candidates have a certain weight and not the same as in the previous world, when he was a very controversial representative of the Olympic Committee because of his great political engagement, as well as some other negative points. What do I expect from the new world? In particular, changes to better, especially greater plurality, better information, transparent business, good decisions that will bring RTV Slovenia closer to European standards, because we need to be aware that many people in Slovenia already have access to satellite programmes and can have 50 or more references at home and see how it is reported on other channels, see how other televisions work, see other countries' programming schemes, and perhaps want something similar in Slovenia. That is why, despite the fact that there are some names in this proposal that I may not personally like, as well as my colleagues - everyone would probably find a name or perhaps suggest something else, but, as I have already said, of the 214 people, it was very difficult to choose with all the restrictive criteria. So in the end, I would only wish new members a successful job, for their successful work will certainly be the pleasure of our television viewers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Dear Members and Members! By today's appointment of members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board by the National Assembly, a law that we passed last year in the National Assembly is being enforced and decided upon by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the referendum. The elected members will have to take into account the adoption of the law, as well as where it says that they will have to follow the opinion of the viewers and listeners, to consider them, because all listeners and viewers are also committed to the RTV contribution and therefore rightly expect a good or better programme on public RTV. In New Slovenia we have never talked about cheaper RTV, which does not mean that we expect bigger positions. However, we demand legal and transparent business, which the Supervisory Board will take care of. At the same time, we also demand the responsibility of the leaders on public RTV. We also expect a better programme in Novi Slovenija. I believe that the proposed persons will be able to make it happen, and they have references. Probably not everyone's politically undecided, as they're told. Even when I was looking at the other candidates who stayed outside, they weren't so politically undecided. Some are disturbed by the Roman Catholic Church and others may be Forum 21. Applicants, civil society, must have chosen them carefully and expected their candidates to be elected. Unfortunately, although the programming world is extremely numerous, 29-member, there are many good people out there. Surely if they have good intentions to be able to influence the elected members of the appointed council with their proposals. From appointed persons, we expect the users of public RTV to be better programme, especially less tasteless advertising, less violence, less pornography, more educational, educational programmes, including greater involvement of Slovenes living outside the home country, as they are expected to live as much as half a million outside Slovenia, even more coverage of broadcasting. Nevertheless, the mission of public RTV information and education remains. The information should not be offensive to anyone, to any group of people, but to be correct, impartial as far as possible. Therefore, a great responsibility is expected from the Programme and Supervisory Board, and I hope that the candidates selected will justify it. With the new appointed, programme council and supervisory council, we expect that the rest of the law will also be realized, including those referring to the third national programme, which is aimed at transferring the meetings of the National Assembly, and I hope that it will not be as hard for them as it appears to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. The order was replaced by Moge and Gantar, so Dr. Gantar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, today the ruling coalition assumes direct political and programmatic responsibility for the fate of RTV Slovenia by means of an act of election of the authorities, i.e. the Programme Council and the Supervisory Council. RTV Slovenia is thus becoming a state and not a public Radiotelevision. Of course, I believe and have repeatedly pointed out that this will sooner or later turn to the coalition to the detriment of itself and that it will have to face the unwitting and unwanted consequences of its unbridled desire for political control of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and of course the media space in general. Today, once again, it is no longer possible to close the media space, today you can master one newspaper, two newspapers, you can master public Radiotelevision, but in the global world it is not possible to control everything, especially the electronic space and, of course, not the Internet. The impressions that you referred to the alleged bias of the Television of Slovenia at the time of the adoption of the law, which is supposed to be the reason for the change of law and, of course, the reason for the change in the composition of the Programme Council, are already coming back in the form of irony and cynicism. Let us recall that, at the time of the adoption of the law, it was repeatedly highlighted and, as an unheard fact, that at that time, the public Radio Television of Slovenia was broadcasting the celebration of a private company only because the former President of the State was present there, and this was, of course, a burden and an obvious one to Mr Janez Kocjančič, or the then President of the Supervisory Board. And what happened to the day before yesterday? On Sunday afternoon, TV, the public Radiotelevision, broadcast one of the biggest civil society organisations on the second program just because the President of the State, the President of the National Assembly, a whole range of ministers and other prominent people were sitting there. With the phones burned down, the direct transmission of a handball game fell off. I ask you kindly if you do not understand this fact that the structural evidence you gave back then to public television is the same as we can give you that happened in a more inconceivable form, and this will happen to you again and again and again. I won't discuss candidates and candidates much. I don't think he's decent either. The vast majority of them certainly belong, because everyone has their own history, they belong to what they would say to the right world or conservative worldview definition, which, of course, is clearly nothing bad, is perfectly legitimate. However, it is necessary to know that such a choice will ensure the majority of this ruling coalition. Of course, there are also some who are inside of themselves, you might say, some people who are clearly part of another political or world-viewed framework, even the wider we can look at, the more valuable. But it is certain that there are so few of them that they will be able to say what they are protesting, as we do here, and of course they will not be able to have a significant impact, of course, along with other means of democratic legitimacy of such a programme world. I must say, I am surprised that some Slovenian poet, icon, editor of the New Journal, with whom we understand each other, but we never agree, was not chosen. I must say, although it is in some other valuable and political context, as I am. I have to say, I don't think that's why, because this one of mine, I'd say, is my acquaintance serious about what he's saying. And those on your side who mean what they say and do are not desirable. There will be a need to adapt to political circumstances. I would also, of course, say that many speakers have pointed out that there is insufficient regionally convened composition, as well as professional composition, and some civil society organisations are not represented and so on. Again the same argument that you cited when you spoke and criticized the current composition now, I would say, the existing programming world, which is dying today. Again, this mechanism, which you have set up, does not say that nothing new, does not go beyond the problem that was before, namely, the problem of representativeness of civil society is actually a problem. Absolutely. And you saved him in a way he can't be saved. It is that you have taken the National Assembly to tell us who the real representatives of the so-called civil society are and therefore clearly you are not and we cannot be satisfied. Indeed, we have all read a letter from Mr Jani Golob, a respected composer, a musician who is now the president of the composers' society, who says there is no musician in there. I understand this answer, this is his concern, I think this is bad, but I would say to him and the like in comfort that music that will be created and danced by the ruling coalition in the programming world is not for every ear and, of course, for every music. So maybe it's a bad thing or a good problem for all those who aren't and won't come into this software world. The second tones and other music will be played elsewhere. I am of the opinion that the programming world that we are going to discuss most today no longer has a particularly important role to play. The key decisions are in the supervisory council, here is a clear story, the government takes direct action also under the law of the matter, and this is television, which is state television. Once again, our greatest choice, ours, yours, viewers and viewers, is the largest remote controller and we will use it more often than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. I am convinced that, according to the views expressed by my colleagues, something substantial new cannot be added because we are talking about such an important institution as public or public TV and the composition of its bodies, it may be three times, five times and more to repeat the basic findings. It is right that we remember them today because we will be accompanied by the following years, when this programme council will be and when this monitoring board will decide on radio television. And the first thing I'd like to find out is that our claim is that the only purpose of the new broadcasting law is to take power in radio broadcasting through organ composition. I would go a step further from my colleague Gantar, this is not a national one, because then perhaps it would be only of everyone else, but it is a government broadcaster; the government majority, with the help of some individuals and customers, assured themselves that it has full power in the programming and control world and that it will be able from the government's cabinet with the shortest orders to comply with the content the government would want. It was probably similar, but of the 21 candidates of the 16 who were supposed to be representatives of the public and of the 5 who were elected by the parties, 12 members were elected only by the votes of the coalition in some exceptional cases with the support of the Slovenian National Party and Mrs Possoncheva. Yeah, that's right. And it certainly is not possible to say that these are really just members of the supervisory council elected by this coalition. Of the other nine, no one could be elected who could not receive the majority of the votes adopted by the kind of coalition. 8 is the least he gets, and rule 9 or 10. In short, you have also elected representatives in the coalition, in which members of the opposition also participated, and, for example, we can consider that there was a possible agreement that it was for people who would be able to represent both interests. Again it is right to say, although it is annoying for you to have the most representatives of a religious institution, in addition to the two proposed by the President of the State, three more directly proposed by the institutions of the Church and some in their well-known positions. But it is right to say that, for example, the Gospels as other indigenous Slovenian churches are not in this circle because there is only one of the Orthodox churches proposed by the President of the State. The coalition elected only representatives of the Roman Catholic Church. A little bit like this could be said for journalists who are three of the kinds in the programming world, but otherwise only one researcher, one humanitarian worker, one health representative, one farmer and no one, because it has already been said today, is not from the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia, but have been proposed, but you, even the coalition, did not feel worthy when you so much of fighting a self-conquering war and you are obvious to us, although we were all grateful to God then that we knew too little to judge that any of the veterans of the war for Slovenia would have been chosen. There is no one from the Association of Slovenian Composers, no one from the Association of Firefighters, no one from the Tourist Association, from NGOs, the Association of Youth Friends, the Olympic Committee, the Union of Consumers, the Employers' Associations and all of these were as civil society formal candidates for the composition of the world. That's right. And also, as far as regional representation is concerned, only half of the regions - or slightly more than half - have their own representative. It is true, however, that on this basis there have been substantial changes in worldviews in the programming world, pluralism would be good and I would be happy, but I am afraid that it is no longer pluralism and that on Sundays we will not only be going to trade, but that we will not be watching sports and cultural events anymore, because Sunday will have to be reserved as a gentleman's day for anything else. I'm afraid we're taking big steps in this direction, ladies and gentlemen. Especially and worse if we're talking about a control council. Do you still remember the promise made by the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, that he offers the opposition membership in the supervisory council? We now ask him publicly where these promises are, that his coalition and its SDS could not provide us any place in the control world! You have both seized yourselves because you believe that the opposition does not have the duty to sit in the supervisory council, instead of us, you have given the Slovenian National Party. If you wanted, you could, but you could also give us, because the composition of the Supervisory Council is such that the four members of the government and the two members you elected represent always and in any case a full and absolute majority, which will be able to do everything you decide and agree in the government coalition. That's the situation. And such a program, the supervisory board will rule. I wish him to be able to deliver on the promises that were, in my opinion, unrealistic, but the promises you made in the public debate on the law on RTV, that the programme would be better, that there would be a number of different content, that there would be an appreciation of the subscription of Radiotelevision Slovenia, that a third parliamentary programme would be put in place to bring about rationalisation and better management, I would like the world and the control world to achieve all of this as soon as possible, and under these criteria, ladies and gentlemen, we will also monitor your decision to put these two bodies together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! As far as I know, Prime Minister Janša has repeatedly argued that the opposition will have membership in the supervisory councils, but has never mentioned that this means that social democracy will have membership in the supervisory council, since the opposition is, as we know, composed of both the LDS, the Social Democrats and the National Party. As for the composition of the programme board, where there would be firefighters to representatives of tourism associations and so on, I am sure that if all 184 candidates were registered, they would not be able to fully meet this criterion. This law, or what we are adopting today, could have been adopted at least six months earlier, for, as we know, we adopted the law last April. We also know that the adoption of this law by the opposition, the LDS and the Social Democrats, has sought to prevent this law from being passed. We were given numerous criticisms, instigations, demagogies that were bordering on the edge of good taste. All of these objections have been aimed at maintaining the media monopoly and the incorrect or biased reporting of social events and current events in Slovenia. You went even so far as to subjugate the State Council, vote veto, and then we also had a referendum, where the voters finally said they wanted a new law and these changes that this law brings. Every democratic society deserves to have such a media that will report plural and impartially. I am confident that this programme and supervisory council, which we confirm today, will meet the expectations expressed by voters in the referendum. This means that we will have radiotelevision with transparent operation, with a better programme and with proper reporting. The composition of the Programme Council is also geographically dispersed, but we cannot be entirely satisfied that we will have one representative from each part of Slovenia. Last but not least, we depend only on those people who have been proposed by many societies and stakeholders for consideration. And from these 184 candidates we were able to then select someone, I can say, from my assessment of very even geographical and professional representation in this world. Otherwise, we know that in two years' time, at least this is how the law imposes on us, we have to replace half of these members with new ones, and then again there is an opportunity for us to be among the offers - I hope that this offer will be even wider, even more varied - to choose such candidates, by means of which we will approach an ideal relationship, both in terms of geographical and professional representation. I will support this proposal on the basis of confidence in the election committee, and I am confident that all these members will contribute or justify the confidence, conviction of those who have proposed it, and of us who will confirm it. And in the end, I would like another piece of information here, or some kind of acquisition of this law, which will challenge my predecessor's claim that this law does not bring about anything but a change in management. A practical example can be found in the New City, where the interest is now to try to make a documentary about the creation and development of the automotive industry, today's Revoz, which will certainly have one important historical and also archival document for Slovenia. This law allows all these interested parties to come up with virtually free of charge all those archival recordings that will then enable them to make this film. Surely this is also a part of what our Slovenian society wants and expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you. Well, I assumed that the debate would go in the direction it was going, because there are many obviouss on one side or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Excuse me, Mr. Barovich, it has been reported that you have resigned. It's probably your job's fault, I'm sorry. You have the floor. Here you go. Secondly, I ask that you check or that the Group of Members report more accurate information. Mr. Barovich, you'll be next. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u54	I'm sorry. It is obviously too far up there to make everything work, as it is obvious that it is too far between the public and the parties of the ruling coalition to understand and hear what this public really wants, and that it would be appropriate to make the laws and eventually the composition of the RTV world. When one minister told me at the beginning of his term, and I also read in an interview "it is high time to also make some order in civil society or in civil society organisations." However, he was referring to some sports organisations and officials in these sports organisations. The time has come for lustration and this has happened in the part where civil society is said to influence the design of a public broadcasting programme through the world, through representatives elected by the National Assembly. If you really wanted and had to mirror the President - and that was the main thing you obviously had in mind to do and not allow in any way the current president of the Olympic Committee to come to this world - then, of course, you should have in mind that the Olympic Committee is that civil society organisation that brings together, according to my data, the most active and passive members of civil society, if you want, from athletes, sports workers, and at least those who were in Maribor yesterday or before yesterday, and also Saturday, and we will go to Planico, and we will go to Pokulka, and we will go to the football game if you want, and also anywhere else. And if you count with [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Of course, you buy a ticket, Mr. Joseph, and you go to the game, that's possible. I work alone in some sports organizations and I know how to do it. And I know that if you want to engage actively, passively or in any way, you also need to contribute something. But that's civil society law, and if you don't want to buy a ticket, then you won't go to the game, or if they won't invite you. How many more are working in sports unions that are not members of the international Olympic committee, i.e. branches and so on, not to mention. And if I add to this the protests of musicians and some other civil society organisations, then I wonder what is what people are interested in: or not a program that contains sports, music and so on. And if I compare in the current situation or in the future, I am sure that sport will not be able to disappear from the screens, that music will not disappear from the screens or radio programs, but that it will certainly be quite a lot. I wonder, of course, what choice and what choice this will be, but that is another question. I estimate this content to be half, if not even more on the screens. And it will be in the future, because if we subtract an information programme that is in the special interest of all those who are involved in politics or are otherwise dependent on politics, it is what people are interested in. So if that minister has announced that there is a need to do some audit in this area, then it is possible to do so in a variety of ways. I suppose there are certain procedures in each industry, active members decide on them and you can also make the Olympic committee a more decent organisation if that bothers you. So, lustration is at work, or as Mr. Sok would say, those who don't like the congregations are confusing, and let them know which ones are ours. In fact, in another statement he says, "if you support the congregations, you are the one who, if not, is confusing." So if you're not ours, if you don't think as we think you are, then you're confusing. Or as my good friend Mr. Ivan Oman would say, "It doesn't matter what he knows, it doesn't matter what he does, it's important that he's ours." A famous, legendary statement from 12 to 13 years ago. It succeeded and lasted a good two-and-a-half years, from 1990 to 1992 and also half years in 2000, and, of course, has been at work again since December 2004. But it's no big deal. Of course, I would like to listen to the warnings of the local professional public and of the foreign public at some point, but as has been said, the law was adopted, the referendum was confirmed, and yet there was another possibility of listening to a more balanced or more reasonable policy in the composition of the RTV world. I do not think it is necessary to stress in particular that those civil society which unite around the Olympic Committee, sports associations, music and so on cannot be replaced by representatives of the Society of Brazda stamina or the mining organisation or the Gorni club of Light, just by chance. Why? There are some advocates nearby, but it's just an accident. I believe that these things will be crystallized and that when the world meets for the first time, all these members and members of this world will make it clear to them that this plurality, these different expectations and demands of viewers, audiences, especially different ones, and, of course, to take into account the diversity of civil society, not as has been quoted here already, that they are, of course, grouping only around, not around similar groups, but around the same ideological groups and with the same messages and with the same requirements for television. Why did you not forget the idea of finding out what civil society is, who represents it, how it is organised and how it can be covered in decision-making processes, how to contribute to the formation of this social image in Slovenia? Why didn't you have fun with that? No, you didn't! Otherwise, there would be five from one area and nothing from another area of civil society. Nothing. We'd probably split that up. So answer me, when you say seven fingers, you have a fairy tale number in mind, probably thinking of the apostles or something like that. But [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no, because first of all I wanted to say to the believers, because not all of them were there, all of them, as they are called, were also some traitors or what they are called. [[...]] Yeah, but I don't know who had the figs in his pocket or under his desk, so we wouldn't be discussing it here right now. If you want, you can, too, because you believe that we know something too [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Turn off your phone. Cell phone's ringing somewhere near the microphone. [[...]] Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Well, I'm probably going to have some opposition, and then I'm going to be able to contribute something else, but I like Mr Sok's statement, which is published in today's newspaper, how do those who are obviously against something that he thinks is best. I think it's a fortune. In the paper, if I don't quote what's in the paper, it's only right that you read Mr. Sok yourself. This proposal, of course, cannot be supported, and I hope here that that announcement by a minister at the beginning of the mandate will not be carried out consistently and that you will be performing lustration in sports organisations, although it is only for the purpose of supporting a club in itself that it is not only for the industry. I hope he's a minister for everyone, including that part of civil society he may not like.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. Here you go. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have this comment on the implementation of the civil society expert, Mr Anderlich. On the contrary, when he was imitating me to buy tickets for some of the events, I would say that sometimes I get an invitation, but when I was in the opposition for the first four years, I didn't get any invitations when you were in power. I have to say, the only time I was at the big game in Planica, I bought a map and came to the nearness of the VIP tribunal, and I was already chairman of the commission at the time, but I was not allowed up there, Mr Anderlich. If memory doesn't fool me, you were on that bleacher. I've often seen you on these stands and I'm sure you've always bought a ticket for your money, but when I saw that I couldn't as a member of the opposition come to the stand with my map in Planica, that VIP tribune, it wasn't at the time of your government "very important people", but "links and acquaintances" were deciding, this human translation of this and I think that today is significantly less that members of the opposition still get invited. In some institutions, they even sit in boxes in the old seating order when they represent some institutions. So, Mr Anderlich, there will also have to be a little space in front of your threshold and then you will be able to share the readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich. There's another replica, if you don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u60	That's something that's incomprehensible when someone from the bench provokes you not to warn him, and then you give him a replica when I'm just explaining something that's actually in the study myself. You provoked, Mr Jerovšek, from the bench and I answered you so that there would be no confusion. If, of course, you have such criteria, I will use it in the future, only if it is a new business practice now, but I do not think that this was an opportunity for a replica, nor did Mr Jerovšek have a chance to replicate it in this part, but of course it is possible that in the discussion then we would also be politicising it. However, it is difficult to invite someone to events if they never show any interest in this and would only show up there to be with a free card on the VIP box. It's something else, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Mr Anderlič, with his personal speech, which naturally revives the debate in the National Assembly, you must count on also to trigger a series of replicas. Mr. Sok has another replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Perhaps Mr Anderlich not only encouraged this debate, but also aroused a certain interest because he warned that something had been published in Del against me, and because he did not want to say so, I will say so myself. So, it's been published that two municipal councillors, Alojz Sok and Branko Šumenjak - who is not a municipal councillor, this is a mistake in Del - lost the lawsuit in the Supreme Court because we complained about the sale of Ormož Communal Company. [[Back-up advertising.]] If you'll excuse me, Comrade Anderlich! I told you to tell me what it says - that we lost the lawsuit. But what's interesting is that this was published in Del before the lawsuit was even served. So, today, on January 10th, and we didn't get the lawsuit, we didn't get it, we didn't get it, but the job was reported, and the evening was reported three days ago. It is necessary to reflect on how this system works in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you. I'm going back to the content. I will begin by being personally very angry on Sunday, when I was unable to monitor the direct handball transfer of the handball game, because the athletes are for me ambassadors of the State of Slovenia. I'm sorry I don't have the opportunity because I've been hurt to have the opportunity to replace an editor who's certainly guilty of choosing one thing instead of another. [[Back-up advertising.]] I could be, but I'm not. You know, sometimes I get angry when I think I've said something good in the National Assembly, and I watch TV, but the insert that I thought was very good and useful isn't. And I'm not going now to change the responsible editor of the information program. I say this because in this debate I listen all the time, on the one hand and on the other hand, only the insults on this account. We, too, may be offended in the Slovenian National Party because we do not have a representative among the five elected in this National Assembly in the Programme Council; we have him in the Supervisory Council. However, another political option from the opposition has it in software and does not have it in control. And I'm not gonna read it here like an offended child. I do. You don't. I don't know most of those appointed to the programming board and the supervisory board; I don't know them very much. And so much my parents taught me, and life has taught me that it doesn't judge people by appearance or just by thought, even though you don't know them. I also have friends who were among the 184 candidates, but I didn't tell our representative at Quiaz or anyone else, Quiaz decided as he did. 184 people, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, were nominated from all political options. But the truth is, there could have been a lot of things going on back then. Whatever it is, the result is here. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I say, I find it difficult to judge between these people. I know a respectable lady who is a representative of the Red Cross and is home from Trubovlje, and I guarantee I will put my hand in the fire and swear to myself that she is very apolitical throughout her life. But this is one of many. I appreciate those people who have here doctoral titles that are respectful of age, and it is true that what has been said today by opposition colleagues is good and wise, that wisdom and age are beneficial to all, hand in hand with young people who are full of energy. And this is also one weakness that must be recognised by the choice that there are not enough young people involved. It is also true that the structures - I remembered or mentioned in the opening talk of musicians. It is true that other areas in the content of national television and national radio and life that do not have their representatives, and this is a mistake, and this must be the case for those who were known in 184 candidates to lobby or otherwise negotiate names, age, education, representation and content. It was indeed, I am sure, for those who did so, worked and had all the legitimate right, but it was superficial, too superficial, that they did not take into account all the spheres which must be represented by the content of what we are saying. One of the respected colleagues has already set up programmes for herself in this national assembly, which, of course, is wrong again and casts a bad light on our work. Today, we are not going to talk about what is supposed to be on TV or on the radio. And I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues that we don't allow this on one side or the other. For this, the responsible editors will be appointed, with the help of all those we are talking about today, who are shaping the programming world and who will have to say, "That's what will happen." To say to the responsible editor of the programs of the public institution: "There are too few Slovenian films," or "too little Slovenian drama, too little Slovenian culture, too little Slovenian classical music." That is why these people are appointed and will have to judge what is more important for national television: either - I will now say to you or to a concrete case - whether it is an international handball game for the Cup or whether it is a meeting at which the high representatives of this country are also worthy of all respect. But what's better to endure later. These are things that these people will decide on, I hope they will, and I hope they will, and on the basis of that, but now I have to quote, I hold to the very content, based on Article 16 which says in, I think the fifth indents: "The Programme Council of the Public Institute deals with and defines the comments and suggestions of viewers and audiences of RTV Slovenia programmes." This is an essential task that these people will have to do, either from the left or from the right, either political, apolitical, or old, young, or educated or uneducated. You had to because this law was passed. However, as far as the political impact is concerned, colleagues and colleagues, this is how we acknowledge that he was present before and will now be present and present. And now we are the ones who are going to monitor the event that we are going to see, as they say, whether it is true what it has brought, what we have said, what the law has promised, or whether it is not true. And I think it's also one of the security guards that's very good in this law that these people from the public service programming board are going to change. If they're not finally being replaced by people, you know, because people aren't so ignorant and they're watching TV and they can tell what's necessary, what's not important, what's not, what's not, and what's good and what's not. In the Slovenian National Party, we want the public institution RTV to perform its function as it must for all people. Remember, everyone, in all the colleges where we were, we got one piece of information, whether it was natural or social: information is the most important source of life cycle. Any one of them and any one of them. Culture preserved Slovenia and the Slovenian people, the Slovenian language is the one that preserved the Slovenians and the Slovenian people. And language and culture and information are given by the public institution RTV, the responsibility that this public institution gives will be on these people, whom we will today or will not support. But it is right that if the law is adopted, if the choice was between 184, I am talking about the software world, people, it is right that if the choice is what it is to enable us to start working normally at all, and that we will be able to watch the next Sunday when we do not see, I am caricing again, the direct sports transfer we want to see, because it is international, because it keeps the name of Slovenia and the good sportsmen of Slovenia in the world and we will be watching something else, whatever else, so that we can say then, here it is, this new responsible editor, this is the one who is guilty of watching the worse and less important thing than the other. Then we will be able to assess those people we are talking about today, who are not yet appointed, except of course, but I am saying, everyone has the right to name or criticize or to judge a person if he knows him. But I suggest that if we don't know him, we don't talk about them until we see them and meet them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thanks again for saying that. In fact, I do not know how Ambassador Barovic does not understand that, as the programme council led Mr Kocjančič, that there was no policy, now that this programme world is changing, of course, it will be a policy. Actually, that's not hard to understand. This is the case and, of course, television has been public before, and now it will no longer be public. I don't know, but I could still watch Mr. Kacin's speech on Sunday because I was having a great time about what a wonderful speech he made 60 years after the end of World War II. Actually, you're just congratulating him on such a great adventure. So I have a feeling that the opposition is actually trying and trying to scare people in this country at every turn. So now something unheard of is about to happen. Nothing will happen, nothing special, nothing that needs to be done, what Mr Potrč and his people are telling us, which should be feared. Nor is it true that the only purpose of this RTV law is to take power when, however, the National Assembly must appoint this Programme Council by a majority of the votes of Members and Members. No takeover of power, the people were appointed at the October 2003 elections. Before, there was one coalition in power, now there's another. I don't know when you'll understand that. And I will say again what I am already doing on behalf of the Group of Members. What is being tried through the composition of this 16-member programming council, which some say is not the right representatives of civil society, but that they were formerly the right representatives when, I don't know, one society named its own, another society of its own, and now you say that all these societies will no longer have their representatives in the programming world. How would you like to have them when there's not a lot of them? So, it's simply not possible mathematically and if we were to follow as much as possible that they have to - I don't know, a mountain association, a fire company, birdwatchers or whatever else we have for societies, it's huge - someone would still be without their representative. Finally, we could still complain about some of Zofija's lovers or some other society that is in this country and that works and that is often in the media and would say we do not have our own representative in the RTV programming world. And it is not a minor fact that what we have already said several times is that in two years eight members of the Programme Council will be replaced and that there will be only something that can be rectified in this context. I also regret that someone has not been appointed from representatives of Slovenian musicians to this programme council. If we could actually agree, as some people claim, that was the deal, then this would have happened, because it was in four rounds, in some ways secret elections, where we were surrounding, and at the same time we signed the ballots, of course, there was a choice like that at the end. And I am sure, and in New Slovenia, we think that this choice is not bad, that this choice is good and that, according to the criteria of those who have made this decision in Kviaz, we consider it the best. I'm not saying that's the way it is, because I've already said that all 184 candidates could fit in, but there's no place for everyone. And those who say there are those candidates here who supported the Republican Assembly, you must admit, however, that there is also a Forum 21 candidate in this programming world. So do I. And we are, if the Memorial of Hribar was included in this programming world, that we voted for it also by representatives of the ruling coalition, because otherwise it would simply not be possible to belong if a majority of 11 votes were required. And that with such decisions, when we have also voted for people who were decisively against this law at the time of the referendum - and some of them are now included in the programming world - we have shown some measure of moderation and that you cannot actually tell us this in this place. I don't know, the press asked me if you would support those who were explicitly against this RTV law. "Of course," I said, "why not!" And so we did in the end, because the only logical thing, the referendum is behind us, most of them have decided, as they have decided, and now this programming world needs to be structured in a plural way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Davorin Terchón has the floor for Švagan. Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr Barovic made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u68	I'll be very brief. I would like to make it clear to my respectable colleague Sok that, if I understand where, I understand this content that we are talking about today, because I am the only one in this Chamber who said that the policy has influenced the programme and business policy of the public administration and that the policy will affect the programming and business policy of the public administration of RTV. The question is to what extent it is and to what extent it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Davorin Targeton has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. So the end fell when the law entered into force. Now, somehow, it's just a number of fields or some subsequent events that are logical. You can see that in the end if you watch television. In fact, I don't understand any sanctity; and this bothers me more than just the fact that you've changed the law, that you've made television out of public - state, and in the end, I have to admit that when I've watched some arrangements in Europe, that similar arrangements, as you've decided in the ruling coalition, there are others in Europe. But I think they're less sacred. They admit it's state television. They don't melt that expression there, but you're still talking about how neutral it is, how public it is. No, there they say, it's state television, we're in power, and now state television reports according to these guidelines. In fact, I resent you more than changing your own marriage. Of course I'm in favor of public television, but you've made up your mind. After all, given the openness of the media space and the logic of democracy - I hope that we will maintain it for a long time - sooner or later this will turn against you, because by the logic of things the power changes sooner or later. Now, the wise authorities last a little longer and the blue is a little less. That is why I do not understand what was required in the law, how the general public should propose to the programming board. It would be exactly the same if we wrote that the 16 members of the programme council are appointed by the ruling coalition, because of the aesthetic conditions or aesthetic form they take into account the opposition's three proposals. And the matter would be exactly the same and these colloquials, I'd say, shouldn't even have to, these false promises to people. This is a "fiction" that is already being processed in the first grade of the elementary school of polytheology and would make the matter more clear. Of course, I also need to find out that we will closely monitor what will happen to your promises that have not yet been fulfilled. Of course, this should take into account the hygiene deadline on the lower RTV subscription, the better TV program. I'm sure it won't do any good. The main changes on TV have already taken place. As I said at the outset, those who closely monitor television can see that the supporters of the marriage in the referendum are already running leaping or less leaping shows, that some are already well represented, that they are already rewarded, that some have been silenced, intimidated by the authorities and that this television is already politically liked by the authorities. I'd say that in the end. One of the MPs of the ruling coalition, I think he was a colleague of Rupar, said he was happy to see the law, because finally TV will not be red anymore, but will become a real color television. I think he managed to make black and white TV black or white, as he prefers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal that finally means positive changes to public RTV. I myself am not a member of the election commission that has drawn up this list or this proposal, but I have listened to the debates and also from today's debates to see how some opposition Members and Members of Parliament suggest political staffing. Very many words were also addressed to regional non-representation, which I absolutely disagree with. It just seems right for me to express my opinion on these observations that have been made today and in the last days. I would focus on the choice of the programming board, namely the part where the viewers, the audiences of RTV, the university, colleges, society and so on and other civil society organisations, except political parties. That seems very important to me. When we look at who the members of the program board can be, again, not to mention all the things we have heard many times today, it is those who, with their knowledge, reputation and so on, contribute to a good operation. However, each of these candidates signed that he was not a member of the political party body. So it is easy to mislead the Slovenian public that this programming world is political. It's just not. The choice of candidates was interesting. In fact, what four rounds were needed to elect 16 candidates. We can see that there was a great dispersion of voices. I was surprised that the only substantive debate on the candidate was only about Mr Miheljak. I personally appreciate Mr Micheljak, as opposed to some of my colleagues, because he has a spine, he has knowledge, and he also says, it is fortunate that everything he says is also published or written, but of course with his content - I don't know if I've ever agreed, I don't think I have. We can talk about his biased reporting, but I believe that the candidates, the Liberal Democracy, did not put him up for political preferences, but because of his expertise, and I expect you to talk about the candidates supported by the coalition as well. Maybe a few more words about regional representation. I don't know if it's already been mentioned today, but I want to tell you or read that I won't let anyone out of this program world, but if it's not regional representation, I don't know what it is: Nova Gorica, Ljubljana, Maribor, Murska Sobota, Adlesici, Celje, Trbovlje, Church in Gorenjska, Radovljica. I just think it's regional representation, it's really not perfect, but it is. That is also how I think these criticisms simply do not hold up. That's all I'd say at the end. It's hard to say that RTV is bad. He's not bad, but he can be much better, and that seems very important to me. In the hope that this new programme council will also bring positive changes to radio broadcasting, I will, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. All that we are listening to today in the debates would, of course, have much greater foundations if we voted today by a two-thirds majority. In fact, talking about expertise, talking about impartiality, talking about regionality is all nice and right, but it's up to the majority, most of us, we know, have agreed who it will support, who it won't support, and all of this would, of course, be much, much better quality if we had a two-thirds majority than what the programming world will determine. My colleague Sok said nothing would happen. Certainly not if you speak on average, but if we know that the program board appoints the director of the institution to appoint then responsible editors, of course, after today's vote many events will take place and will be important for the functioning of the public service Radiotelevision Slovenia. In fact, today's move brings us closer to shutting down public television and bringing into life a state-run television that is and will be under the control of the ruling coalition. That's how it's written in this law. If it were to be different, of course, the decision would be made in a completely different way. I think that all of these debates, which today talk about having an independent and impartial session in the programming world, are, more or less, significantly longer than they would have been in this second case. The representation of the institutions and societies themselves is also relatively modest in this programming world. It is likely that after at least two years it will be necessary to refresh this world and to find a truly broader spectrum of members of the Programme Council than in today's vote and today's debate. But obviously the procedure was such that it was not possible to agree on the inclusion of wider groups, societies or stakeholders to try to contribute to the programme’s radio and television scheme. So I think that this bitter taste of the introduction of the RTV law will remain, I stress, mainly because we do not decide by 2/3 of the majority. If we were really willing to discuss some kind of breadth, then it would be necessary to amend this law and only with this change could we say that we want to provide as many interests as possible or as few to the public on this television as possible and as few policies as possible. Unfortunately, there will certainly be much more politicisation on this state television than ever before, or a narrow presentation of individual problems, or a solution throughout the state, and that is certainly something that is not good. So right now, all I can say is, good luck to all those members who are going to make the choice, obviously. However, what will actually be seen through screens, let us wait and assess, but my assessment is that it will be significantly narrower and more politicised than ever before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's like at the beginning of the adoption of the RTV Act, but we've been through this story somehow, and we've already adopted the law. Today, we are doing something as a result, some of the things that we have also adopted in the National Assembly also commands the National Assembly to do so. Today we are ahead of this important decision when we are talking about members and members of the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, most of them we don't even know - probably not, at least not me, probably not you - and we are talking about them all the worst, as if they were some kind of skyscraper, etc. I don't think that's right for those members and members that we don't even know, we accuse them of being incapable of being good, etc. I think that this is a mistake and that is not correct - even such a way of doing it in this House. Another time. I, however the law was, went through a number of debates, not least to the referendum, the decision of the referendum, the will of people is clear - whatever it is. However, I am pleased and pleased that we have succeeded in that, in my opinion, a very important story, regional representation. This is what I also think this world of RTV will enrich, because not only in Ljubljana, but also in Dolenjska, Posavje, Bela krajina, Prekmurje and elsewhere. And that's what I think in the selection of these candidates and candidates is positive. It is extremely good that someone from Prekmurje, or from Nova Gorica, or from Gorenjska will decide on this story we are talking about, about RTV. He'll decide about the program, about the better program, about a variety of programs. The word "governance RTV" hurts a little bit. Then there was the government's RTV, and it was just a different composition, and now it's going to be a different one. I don't think that's right, I don't think that's right, and I'm going to say a little rough words here, which I'm listening to, that we obviously know the previous government RTV, we don't know you yet, because we haven't started or started working with these members of the programming board yet, we don't have a control board or anything. So to judge something, when nothing has happened, is a little incorrect and premature, and perhaps even the political obvious coalition is not justified and not in place. I'll say, let's wait, let's give it a rest. At the end of the year, two will certainly say with full responsibility: it does not apply, it does not apply, it does not apply. Today, when it's not really a full-blown marriage, I think it's too quick and inappropriate to talk about it. I think that this team, which is made up, I believe that the work was extremely difficult, so many registered members and so much to choose out, believe me, this Quiazu or the election commission and those members was not easy, nice - simply difficult! And all these many eminent names that I saw in this collection were certainly 16 and 5 names were not easy to work with. Whoever did this in any way that requires such and other ones they had, I think they were quite correct and let us hope and believe that this choice was made in accordance with the new law that we have, with the new members of the RTV world and the supervisory council, and then with the probably new leadership of RTV, will give what the last voters and voters, viewers, audiences somehow said at the referendum. Let's give them time, give them a chance to do their job. If your expectations, our expectations and my expectations are not met, then of course I will also be entitled to give criticism to this world, this supervisory council, this RTV leadership. And I think with these observations, the story that has been heard 100 times in Parliament is repeated 100 times in various Slovenian newspapers that it does not apply, that it does not apply, and that it will not, that will not, that will not, that will not be. It's like these people can't think with their heads, like they haven't seen any colleges, like they're not educated, and they're from wherever they come from. I think that these are people, all who have given their course one way or another through, or else they probably would not have come to the narrowest selection of the elected commission of this Parliament, and today I probably expect or tomorrow this confirmation of theirs, and then as soon as possible the work that awaits them of course. I would say that, above all, to these new members who will be appointed, and to the new leadership of RTV, I wish all happiness, much success, that indeed this law, which has experienced so many comments already at the beginning of the journey, will succeed on this path and, of course, these comments that we have, I as a viewer and as a mercenary and as a subscriber, I hope that it will to the greatest extent be fulfilled in the future of RTV Slovenia. This is an institution that means a lot to each of us in this Parliament and to the citizen and to the citizen, because this is television, which is our television, we are watching as we naturally want. I believe in it, I hope in it, and of course, if there are no results like I expect, I will be among the first ones to say, and that does not apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Nice greeting on my part, too! And thank you very much to the President for having this session so far. Mr. Bojan Kontic is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to judge individual candidates and candidates because it's the best time to do that. The viewers and the viewers wanted to change. Who wouldn't if you regularly monitor the TV program; it'll never be liked by everyone. He wasn't, he wasn't, and he won't be in the future. And who with the word "no" would answer the question of whether you are in favour of fewer repetitions, whether you are in favour of paying less for a better program, or are you in favour of changing the organisation of the RTV Institute and providing a better program. The answer to these questions is perfectly logical, with the word "yes". The authorities of RTV will be unpolitical from now on, you say. There are no former politicians or no former politicians. A minority is proposed by political parties. Indeed, everyone else is called politics, in the way of 'yours, ours', under the cover of civil society. You have also divided civil society according to the choice that is before us today into those who have representatives and those who will not have these representatives in the governing bodies. It's nothing new. This is happening everywhere where politics is involved, including, or in particular, that which is also withdrawing from the economy, in a way that is increasingly present there. Regional representation is good, you say some. From the fifth largest Slovenian city, which Velenje certainly is, there is no one. There's no one around here either. Otherwise, this is not a significant change, a similar relationship has ruled until now the fifth largest city in Slovenia. Respectable future managers of the public service RTV Slovenia! I'm waiting for a better program. I'm waiting for a lower subscription. I'm waiting for a third TV program. Otherwise, I always have a remote in my hand, just in case. Just cancel the subscription or start the system, pay as much as you can. It will be very interesting when the current government majority is met by the opposition. Although it is likely that the Programme Council will seek to ensure that the public administration of RTV acts in a non-political manner, that political parties will have about the same minute, that comments will be balanced and critical, even to the authorities, irrespective of their colour, as soon as possible, these managers will be replaced. I will gladly and with particular interest then listen to the comments of today's coalition on how the law on RTV needs to be amended, how inanimate it is, how it is to the detriment of those who are in the minority. I can only hope that the then government coalition will have or will be able to do so much courage, as well as reason, to adopt a new law on RTV and in this way actually withdraw the policy and its satellites from deciding what we might watch on public television at that time. Even when we turn on the first, second or third programme and expect a good programme on all three programmes. Nevertheless, people will decide who will perform on the third programme of Television Slovenia in the next term if we wait for this third programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Marjan Pojbich to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Your Honor! I will also support the proposals that have been adopted and drawn up by the Election Commission, which I am a member of, because I am assessing that the proposal for the composition of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board is optimal, since it has been very difficult to select 26 candidates for the Programme and Supervisory Board for the number of candidates proposed and, given their expertise, because virtually all candidates have met the necessary conditions. Our decision to choose candidates was also to ensure the highest possible regional representation of complete political neutrality, which we have also succeeded in most elected candidates, with the exception of candidates from the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats, who have also not been able to circumvent the political compatibility between the parties and elected candidates of their kind. I am confident that the new composition of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board will be able to carry out the great responsibility ahead of it, as it will be necessary to deliver the important news that follows from the new RTV Act. Of course, I must point out that I am extremely pleased that, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the rule of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats will now be interrupted on radio television, and that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia be objectively informed and television will indeed become real public television and also broadcasters will no longer suffer the political terror of these political parties who have been hiding behind civil society, led by Mr Kocjančič, who has been elected as a representative of civil society, and we all know of his political past. If this is a politically unsustainable personality of civil society, then I really don't understand the concept of civil society. Sir, I am convinced that by electing the proposed candidates and this adopted law on RTV, we are following democratic standards that govern this area in all the advanced world, including the EU, of which we are part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When I listened to today’s debate, I thought that the matter had become a bit tiring, but now I see that you can also have fun here at the various performances that we are experiencing and the stories that are being told. After the referendum that just happened, we were both convinced that we had won. This is a matter that is very interesting, but those few voices that have inclined to the side of the law, that it is very good and that brings new democracy and compatibility, from 16 to 26 members of the world, is a story that we see in our own way. I hate to involve personal stories in this parliamentary work, but I regret that among those who experienced this new wind on RTV on independent national television in a way that I do not afford to any of you. How capable it is of national, perhaps according to a new state, television to produce untruths and lies to those who do not want to. You don't have to call yourself Cocijanchitch. And if we continue to experience such stories, which I fear, I repeat, what I fear, then we know what lies ahead for us in this country. And that's the part I'm worried about. From this list that is before us, this is the subject of debate, to draw out who fits where, what is puzzle to me at this point, because it is really difficult for some to judge where they are going or what they are going to do. From this territorial representation, one thing I know is that they won't do anything because they'll be waiting for instructions on what's going to happen. This is probably the right model for the members of these new two bodies, in three parts of course. It's a story that worries one of us, and I wish I was wrong, and that at least partly would be what you promise us those who won the referendum, that this black scenario that we once experienced would not happen too often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support it myself, because what is ahead of us is a story that has already happened and is, as a result, also related to hope. And since it is in hope to live well, I hope that Slovenians and Slovenians will really be able to watch national television in the regional programme of Kopra Slovenian when it takes place in Italian to be subtitled with Slovenian subtitles. And that 70% is in Italian. When 30% of the Slovenian programme will be on this regional programme of national television, I also expect Italian subtitles. This is also expected by Slovenians and Slovenians, because something is happening in Slovenia, which is unique in Europe, to allow the minority to travel on national television. Koper is viewed in the area of all Slovenia and I feel bad when I turn it on and see an Italian-speaking program without subtitles in Slovenian. I really hope that this will happen in the first days, because if it does not, then, given that we have written a number of requests and numerous initiatives, the demands of ministers and nothing has happened, all we have to do is find justice within the Slovenian National Party in court and we will do so. As has already been said, today I will be in the hope of living well in the hope of supporting this composition of the programming world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. My word is Happy Hwauca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appointment of members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of Public Television is an important step in the implementation of the new RTV Act. At the same time, once again, it is not about any law, but about the law that was tested at the referendum, it is said that it has obtained the highest possible degree of confidence. The fact that more than or almost 220 candidates have been applied for or have been declared, suggests that this law has brought about some new quality, that the doors for these possible members have opened wide, and that this has also increased the possibility of us reaching really good and suitable members of the programme board. I think the mandate commission has done a lot of work when, from this broad crowd - I am sure - in the vast majority of the good, quality and suitable candidates it has chosen the 16 we are talking about today. I would not like to discuss the names, because I am sure that all those on the list of these candidates are also of good quality and appropriate quality. The process itself was carried out transparently, in a way publicly, and I think it is also one of the improvements, some of the improvements that this new law has brought. Today we have been listening to criticism that candidates are not politically neutral, in some subtonia, but that in the existing world they are all politically neutral, all of them from the civil sphere, etc. I myself do not see any policy among these candidates, nor even any visible policy, or even the President or the former President of any political party. The other thing I would like to commend is this regional dispersion. Of course, we would like to or personally wish that, I don't know, there would be more candidates from northeastern Slovenia. But the number of cities is limited, and just as I want these members to be more from Celje, from Maribor or from Koroška, of course they also want to be, or you want my colleagues and colleagues to come with you. But the quota is simply limited and I think that what it is is is a major step forward, given the previous situation. If we look at the list of these candidates, we find that this is a large range of civil society representatives. I agree that many groups are not represented on this list. There is really no representative of the association of cultural societies, disabled people, musicians, film makers, war veterans, composers' society, I don't know, firefighters, as mentioned here already, tourist associations, associations of youth friends, the Olympic Committee, consumer associations, employers' associations and so on. I could add, I don't know, fishermen, hunters, trade unions, sports workers and so on. There are no athletes, either, as mentioned. But as far as I know, even in the existing, existing world, there are fewer athletes, unless we consider the president of the Olympic Committee to be an athlete, then we can say that this is appropriate, this group is adequately represented. But I would like to say a few more words about the Governing Council. The opposition is clear that there are few or no representatives in the supervisory council. What I would like to draw attention to are some double criteria, some different approach. If we are talking about supervisory boards of companies for which the coalition has made a firm promise that the opposition may also have representatives in these supervisory councils, this opposition does not want to exploit it. He says he doesn't want to be present, you don't want to be present in these control councils. Here, when there is a possibility and when there is actually an opposition, it is also not right. Why? When you have a chance, you don't want to be here, but there's something wrong with you. Just agree on what criteria will apply to you: either one or the other. Otherwise, it's your business. In view of what I have said, I will, of course, support these candidates for the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of Public Broadcasting. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate is worth noting both the debate itself and those lists on which we will vote. Colleagues, mainly from the coalition, regretted here that there might be a mistake because there are no musicians, and that there is probably an even greater mistake because there are no filmmakers, maybe they have let go of communicators who are professionally involved in things like television and the media. You could say that it is rather embarrassing that it is not a representative of sports organisations, but sports programs are only one of the more attractive programs on TV. Mrs Potrata agreed that wisdom replaces that large population, which is quite written down by good parts of television programmes, from music, entertainment and so on. From this point of view, it is quite embarrassing that large companies can run 30-year-olds and cannot influence the television programme. Similarly, coalition Members wonder how hard it has been to work, to reach these 16 Members and to be like a miracle from various parts of Slovenia, when 185 and almost 230 people were available. I don't know what to think about that. Whether it's ignorance, whether it's genuine naivety, or it's total slyness. My colleague Janc is pleased with regional representation and says in this enthusiasm that he is great because he is also someone from Posavje. He's not from Posavia. There's no one even registered. [[Back-up advertising.]] Or one, if you'll excuse me. Thanks for the heads-up. Someone came from Zasavje - and then I'll say - probably the only one against the first list that came from somewhere, but we don't know where. Therefore, it is very instructive that this voting material, which is signed and which shows in individual stages how this vote took place. If we take Mr Tank's ballot, which is the formal leader of the coalition in Parliament, then it would appear that from 16 at the end of the elected representatives and representatives to the world at his will, I will say, a miracle, taking into account all these possible criteria, there were 14 names already surrounded in the first round. If we took, for example, Mr Bajc's ballot, which does not know how Mr Tanko voted, it would also show that 14 out of 16 names are already in the first stage surrounded in the same way. Of course, I am joining this land in which miracles are believed, miracles are expected, and both are beneficial to me. This is what I am looking forward to because it is also to discuss them, I will say, a kind of pleasure; it is enough for me. If we looked at the other ballots, it would appear that the coalition Members actually had a tolerance of two to four, and everyone else was eventually elected as I told you. And it will be incontrovertible which two candidates were elected, without experiencing in the first ore the grace of enlightening Mr Bajc and Mr Tank, that I will not talk about all of them, if that is the case, it is one journalist from Zasavje and one journalist from Ljubljana. So much for how difficult it was to coordinate this and how hard it was for a mandate-holder commission to work. But it is true that we do not know in any other way how these people were decided, because speaking against these 16 people, I find it really distasteful, because there are some experiences behind all of them, some of which are completely remarkable careers. What these 16 people need to know is that, unlike those proposed by political parties and by the president, two churches have been elected to be these 16 saints and saints, to be prisoners and prisoners of the government coalition. I don't envy them. Expectations are high on the part of the government coalition and the government coalition's promise of what and what television should be like are enormous. They won't be able to do that. And given that you're having a lot of trouble, I'm assuming that you'll be guilty of not being the TV that you promised to pass on to these truly innocent people, who may have also inherited the widest civil society and viewer call, without knowing that the coalition would then make a choice through some sieve that it doesn't bill. Otherwise, these votes cannot be interpreted. It was therefore also important that these votes were public, that they were recorded and that there would be no confusion about how it ended up. If you can explain to Mr Bajc and Mr Tanko how you came to a common election without harmonising yourself, ensuring that each Member and Member of Parliament will choose according to their conscience, then I will be rich for a new revelation. What does all this tell us? It tells us first of all that they had and we had just those who claimed that the world would choose a coalition, not really a civil society. In this regard, the predictions of marriage, which go to many people today, were correct. And the fact that we are repeating the same things today takes advantage of this opportunity to say that we are capable of predicting your decisions. We anticipated that you would make the law so that you could control television and that you would make the choice so that you would have the majority you needed. In this you have not failed us, and from this point of view you must be satisfied with our accurate assessments and with the choice you have made for yourself. We can have different opinions on this, but it is necessary to say so. What was interesting to me in some way is that today it has been said that the most independent and independent have fallen out, regardless of whether they are politically oriented more left or right or possibly even neutral. And I went over this list and you pulled out ten names, if there are possible people who can be attributed to them that are capable at every moment of their own opinion, are Slovenian-known, someone doesn't always agree with them, but you've completely rejected everything. I'll go alphabetically. Who else could have picked twenty or ten others: Apple Andrej - out, Brecelj Marko - out, Einspiler Vili - out, Grafenauer Niko - out, Ihan Alojz - out, Kovac Bogomir - out, Licul Miljenko - out, Milosavljevic Marko - out, Nusdorfer Vlasta - out, Pirevec Jože - out. These are the people that, I think, more than anyone else, more than those on the list, everyone knows, enjoy what Minister Simoniti is, here's his adjutant, representing as a key criterion that it's about respectable people. What can we conclude from this? That the coalition is afraid of independent people, regardless of whether or not they are being masked. What can we conclude from this? That this world wants to absolutely subjugate itself and make it more manageable. I have no doubt that some of these people will be in the world, that they will be able to answer questions, that they can actually be the minority's voice needed, that everything will not flow like an oil machine. That's why this discussion is today, I'll say significant. In fact, I find people kind of feeling sorry for me, and I'm not surprised at the pain that written pamphlets actually bring. They're stuttering around like they don't really believe their arguments. This means that they are not fully convinced of what they are doing. But we didn't know all through one of the important criteria. How did this choice go if we didn't know where? All we know is the criterion that Mr Jerovšek has established, which has relied on his roommate's experience, I will say, in all respects, visual, creative and other reliable brothers. So, [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] If I understand correctly, Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Please! Only Mr. Skolch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Well, whatever. In one of the assessments, we only learned how and how the coalition talks about candidates. In fact, in the judgment of that part of the list where political parties should be autonomous in their decision and where even if it were a faithful member, it should not be particularly controversial. But what we don't know is why they are, say, like I read them before, but they've argued a lot about and against the law, why they've fallen out, and others that we know are signing under different political party pamphlets, but they've come through easily. From this point of view, we need to talk about this here, saying to the Slovenian public that the coalition is unable to present the criteria by which it chose. That she chose, but it's beyond a doubt. I told you how the ballots were drawn up. The fact that you do not present your criteria, nor the simplest ones in which regions, not only in other opinions, shows that you are not in a position to answer for your opinion before all organisations and the public for a decision that you will undoubtedly impose on the national assembly. Of course, it is logical that we will vote against such a world, and there are honorable people in it. It is also necessary to vote against it because of the Supervisory Council, where you have done what you normally do: to secure the necessary and excessive places and to decide who is the right opposition to you, according to your arbitral opinion. However, you have not complied with the criterion in the law that the results of the vote must be taken into account in the most proportionate sense. From this point of view, it is certainly wrong that there is no candidate on this list proposed by the Social Democrats and that you think for yourselves which opposition is better. This points to arrogance, not to Parliament, but also to arrogance, really to voters who have otherwise divided the votes that you later take into account, but should take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Janc first called and then Mr Bajc, because Mr Janc had already raised his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr School, if I have been misunderstood, I will correct and say it again. I just said that I am very pleased that not everything is smart in Ljubljana and around, otherwise it is a lot, but it is also in Posavje, Dolenjska, White Krajina and Prekmurje. However, if there were no candidates and no candidates from Posavje, of course I know because I would certainly know the candidate or candidate if he were from Posavje. From this point of view, I am very pleased that viewers and listeners from this end of Slovenia can be represented where they are, in this programme world, and decide on a better programme, better television, so that it was not intended. I believe they'll make it, but if they don't, you'll tell them in a few years that they didn't make it, and you'll do a new program. From Posavje there is no candidate or candidate, I said there are no candidates, but that even in Posavje there are people who know something, they know, not only in Ljubljana. In this context, I have spoken, not in the representation of personnel from Posavia, which was not in it, but in the proposal of the Council or the Supervisory Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Please don't talk to each other, there's only one person talking. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To this day, I thought that Comrade School was not one of the clairvoyants in this National Assembly, and I thank him for his clairvoyance that he had declared me a diviner, but I do not have it for that. But I will tell you what happened when an expert group of this election committee counted votes and when I didn't see who voted, I said, but this is from this and this is the vote. I suggest Comrade Školč, I think this colleague has stopped by, and colleague Školč, I think he could count a few more saints, but I'm sure my name isn't there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, is there a replica? Please. The replica does not need to be given a name. Read the rules of procedure. Were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Yeah, I was mentioned, yeah. As far as I'm concerned, if I can answer back.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Since you haven't discussed it, it's already a replica of the replica, so Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u98	Can't I?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u99	No, because it's not really a replica. I apologize and give my word to Mr Jerovsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself am not receiving such a grace of enlightenment as is obviously attended by my colleague Školč, so I will not be able to give such a callous judgment and an opinion on the choice of the Programme and Supervisory Council. Of course, I must say that despite his enlightenment and his grace of enlightenment, his predictions were incorrect, and his colleagues. In fact, even you MPs, journalists, criminals, observers, and I have several journalists who said, "When LDS did this, it was clear in the first round, and you need five rounds to measure 16 people." And it all worked out for you. That's why I think it's weird because my colleague, School, is in trouble with my debate. I confirmed your candidate myself, I announced in advance, but you're problematic that I should even talk about the candidate, I shouldn't talk about some candidate that your client proposed, and I'm afraid that the only reason this same candidate and Mr. Scholcz are friends with Mr. Kirn, and that they once demonstrated before the US Embassy, and they wanted to prevent the entry into NATO. Mr. Kirn is known for 500 million of this money for the Red Cross. At that time, I called on Mr. Skolcz to guard himself against such a waste of that money. Then I got an answer in the diary with a pamphlet all over it. I hope to receive an answer in the Journal or another newspaper today. That is why I protest or demand, Mr Školč, to tell you which of these candidates signed the pamphlets of political parties. You didn't mention it, but you told them that some of these candidates signed political party pamphlets. When we have this proposal on the table today, which we have put through the Mandate-Election Commission, I must say that, as already mentioned, if a person did not consult and have to coordinate, my proposal for a few names would also be different. I would have had different preferences myself, but I am sure that we have made a relatively good choice, a good proposal that will allow this public institution to actually act as a public institution. My colleague, School, wonders what criteria were used to do this. It is not yet clear to us that the previous world of RTV, under what criteria, has happened miraculously, that Mr Kocijancič has been elected twice in a row. What kind of miracle was that? Enlightenment terrible. That Mr Sedmak was a representative of the journalists when he arrived among the pensioners, and immediately a representative of the pensioners, was the only one suitable among 500,000 pensioners. In one of those mandates, when this was chosen, Mr Školč was the Minister of Culture and he has not yet explained what criteria it was doing at the time. At the time, I felt that the only State religion that had ever been in the previous system, atheism, their societies had run, very rich. I don't think it bothers me. Now he's asking about these criteria. See, if, this time, when we chose, we chose on a better basis, it is said that the previous public service world would be more balanced in order to have more transparent criteria there, more work would be done for a public agency, for public television, the current choice would be easier and better. Definitely. The base was weak. What the previous ministers did was bad. The representative of one party says he proposes to be a direct transfer of the meetings of the Programme Council. Why didn't you do it under Kocijanic? This could be done immediately if we were to broadcast the meetings of the previous board of the institution, I think we would have managed such a good law earlier and better and would have gotten to independent television sooner. Finally, you are opposed to the supervisory function or composition of the Supervisory Board. I'm not saying you could have different names, just rely on your control functions, and that's not it. This could be a bad experience. 60 million unpaid fines in Lip's case, I don't know what's going on. The inspectors were in charge of you. Was the performance of the supervisory function excellent? You'll tell me it was great. Where's Mr. Kos? 60 million unsaid fines without smearing. And these are public officials. Has Mr Kos ever offered any state officials, which of the prosecution and the judiciary have been locked in drawers? All I got was a notice of how sensitive an inspector was to the invitation of a high-ranking official and he finally locked himself in a drawer if a call from the previous government occurred. With such an execution of the supervisory institutes you read ahead, you see into the heads how they will work, you see that everything will be bad. I don't think it's possible to perform a worse control function than it was under your government. It would be a disaster, it would be a pervasive disaster if it were possible to go lower or worse than you did. But you're full of eyes. Look, I can see that some of you, through this debate, have suffered insanely in recent years, when you have so much sense of demagogism, but you were able to be positional, Mr Gantar, Minister, Mr Ptrč, Head of the ruling party, some ministers, too, how insanely you have suffered when you were sitting in these positions and you have such a sense of demagogism. I'm "fausting" you that you're lucky now to be in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Two explanations. Mr Kumer, I would like to give you a word or a replica, but you cannot replicate it because you have not yet discussed, after Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, so you must wait for the debate. That's what the rules of procedure say while it's still in force. With regard to the replica, however, it can exceptionally be that, if the President considers that the statements in the replica were incorrect, but given that Mr Jerovšek specifically challenged Mr Školč to answer individual questions [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] In any case, I would give Mr. Scholch my word, so the word is yours, and then, as I see it, Dr. Gantar signed up for the replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I will not explain everything to Mr Jerovsk, I will choose two short matters, because I think that will be enough to begin with. And second of all, when you figure it out. As regards the difference between the previous system and the current system, it is true to say that the previous law was significantly different and from this point of view appointed civil society organisations that appointed the saints themselves in the world of RTV. In this way, Mr Jerovšek, they have chosen those who have endured to the end and those who are during the term of office [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Mr Jerovšek, please let only Mr Školč have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u104	From this point of view, Mr Kocjančič is responsible for the appointment, if you do not know, of the Olympic Committees. [[...]] I believe you didn't know, and I believe you'll forget that for the purposes of your insinuations as well. The second thing to say is that you and your colleague Bajc are turning words into words. I said that given that you're surprised at each other's hard work and how you've all done it in your conscience, you've carried out this vote, and the analysis of the ballots shows that you've all voted virtually the same, that this must have been some kind of enlightenment. As far as I'm concerned, it's not about any insight into your head, but it's about a simple ability to read the ballots. I believe that someone has a problem with this and that it was therefore necessary to repeat more circles to reach all of those 14 and 16 candidates than you wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, also a replica of Mr. Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u106	It's a replica. Mr Jerovšek mentioned, however, I would have warned my colleague Jerovšek that the current coalition is one year and a little more in power to not actually refer forward to the old government, which has long been gone and yet to take the lease to certain consequences, certain actions, the result of its own behaviour of the government and the coalition, that it was very good and also useful for this government and for these Members. At the same time, I would say that in the fact that we have found that the composition of the Programme Supervisory Board is what it is, means direct political control of the formerly public, now state or government Radio Television, under the ruling coalition. You can't hide that fact. And those who say that are, of course, at risk of being vilified, we are demagogues, but in spite of all of this, we cannot hide ourselves. And the fact is that in this way, once again, you too will face the consequences of your own actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. You know that replication is not allowed except for exceptions, so let's continue the discussion. This time I see no reason to allow an exception after the last sentence of Article 70, so I invite Mr Bevik to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. As I said last November when establishing a government or coalition commission of inquiry concerning Mercator, today, when dealing with human resources solutions in software [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u110	I find even more credible in the world of RTV Slovenia that we are witnessing the process of uniting power in Slovenia. [[...]] There are clearly marked processes of unifying the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. This process is followed by the adoption of the law on RTV Slovenia and human resources solutions in the public television and radio programming and the announced media law. If we add some of the capital connections and changes in the supervisory councils, let me mention above all the largest publishing house in the work, then it is clear enough that it is also a government takeover of media houses and media as the fourth branch of government. The decision should therefore be made only from one cabinet, which is from the cabinet of the Prime Minister on Gregorčičeva Street. In the context of the unification of the various branches of government, the relevant staffing of the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board also belongs. This will be followed by other human resources solutions, from the Director-General of the Institute to directors of television and radio and responsible and other editors of RTV Slovenia. I therefore propose that, following the example of Study City, even before the central daily news broadcasts of TV Dnevnik and Mirror today, the journalist should first welcome Mr Prime Minister and Mr Naskopf and, due to the merit of the adoption of the law on RTV, perhaps also a Member, Mr Grims. I wonder how and in what direction the television program will improve, according to the last Sunday’s afternoon program. I am also interested in how we will get lower rates for the RTV contribution, and I am also interested in when we will receive the third parliamentary programme for the direct transmission of the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the results of the last Politbarometer, which has shown a decline in the popularity of the current authorities, I am sure that the government coalition is not so heated for the third parliamentary programme as well. It is clear that the third parliamentary programme experienced the fate of the Politbarometer before the first regular and direct transfer of the meeting of the National Assembly. There is no more special warmth to enable the opposition to have a greater presence in the central national media, such as Slovenian television. However, since there has been a lot of debate and talk lately, and the law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, on which colleague Pukšič said when he cited the judgment and the opinion of one of the ministers of the government that it is one of the most important government projects, he would like to draw attention to the weakness and anomaly of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council: that 170,000 Slovenians living in the traditional settlement area directly for our national border do not have their own representative in the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. So, 100,000 Slovenians in Italy, in Tržaška, Goriška and in Videmski krajina, 40,000 Slovenes in Koroška and Štajerska in Austria, 5,000 Slovenes in Przebje in Hungary and several thousand Slovenes along the Slovenian-Croatian border. This weakness was pointed out by SLOMAK, a Slovenian minority coordination, by the Ministry of Culture already in the middle of last year when this law was discussed in the National Assembly, but of course there was no appropriate response, nor was there an appropriate response when the current appointment of candidates for the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Council was made. In fact, the effective realization of the common cultural space would also be demonstrated by the equal representation of the representative of Slovenian minority organisations in the RTV Slovenia programme world. Otherwise, I wish the newly appointed members and members of the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board to work successfully in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u112	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In practice, it is always the best compromise that no one is satisfied with. I'm guessing that's the way it is this time. There's talk of political recruitment. Yeah, it's true, five candidates had the right to name political parties. And that's all. The rest is the result of a civil initiative. In front of us are selected candidates of 184 correctly completed candidates. All of these 184 candidates are suitable and each of them could occupy a responsible place, both in the programme and in the supervisory board. In my review of the selected candidates, I am also surprised to see the name on the list of candidates for the Supervisory Council signed already under the report of the Supervisory Board, which was presented to us in the broken Slovenian language in the past year. This time, I hope that I will not have to hear anything similar when I consider the 2006 report of the Supervisory Board, which unfortunately will not be affected. I expect from the Programme Council, above all, a better programme and fewer repetitions of the shows already seen. From the Supervisory Board, we all know that today in RTV Slovenia works with money, as they say, domestically, like a pig with fur. I am convinced that the choice ahead of us is good and that the members of the Programme Board and the Supervisory Committee will do their work in a responsible and professional manner, so I will also support the proposed candidates and candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. And he already has the floor, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The old Latin river says "quod hypocrite ii, non-licensity bovi", or "what is allowed to Jupiter is not a cattle", or the scissors and canvas have a position with them by law to shape fate for citizens and citizens. I think that this craftsmanship in this law, the consequences of which we feel today in appointment, has done extremely badly. RTV Slovenia played a very important role in independence and in the time after the independence when we designed the new development, and it would be a duty to be more respectful in dealing with it than we have seen it today and as we have seen it in the past. I have never before been present in a marriage that would be accepted with such a sharpening attitude that neither side has even given in. And that's how you adopted a law that you lied to people. When it came to the referendum, you promised them, "respected viewers and viewers watching this program are true or not that you will have a reduction in the RTV contribution". That was a big lie, that's not it. You made a deal, and you told them, and now we're different from the others. For we have not tried, and even now we are not willing to record all things from the National Assembly, from working bodies to that, but you have promised, we are different, and we will make a third television channel when the program is adopted - and whether this promise is fulfilled or not. Dear colleagues, this promise has not been fulfilled either. And more than that, I could say that this marriage is bad. This is just the article, 17, on which we today call the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, I will rely on it myself. It seems fair to me that the policy has taken a greedy hold that it has itself decided which of the candidates proposed by the political parties to the programme council will be in or not. That's it. That's it. That's it. And I must also say that on the Commission's mandate-holder, this process has taken place as much in a bearable tone as it has, and that we have also voted on the coalition and the opposition, which I think is a good proposal. However, it is quite another thing that the National Assembly, through the legal basis, took possession of its property to decide on the representative in the programming world of those people proposed by viewers, audiences, universities, universities, societies, associations of societies, especially in the field and in the first place is art, etc. I think it's a very bad move that will throw us all in a position and a dark shadow in the opposition when we leave this national council. Why? To choose from the crowd 185 people the world by some criteria that were not exactly defined by the programme, and this thing, like the votes, the voices, when they were reviewed, could not be arranged differently than that individual political blocks in the global have taken care of whom they will support, and have left their members some free places as free shooters to agree with others, and yes, they, by their own conscience and by their own judgment, elect this programming world. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am myself a member of a mandate-holder commission, and I think we have done this work very badly, very poorly. You've all heard of sports. Here, in the field of film, about what seems strange to me, the society of General Maister, who proposed a member, but besides society, other people, there were about 120 thousand candidates, if we look at it, who advocated that public RTV also have content that would be close to the nation, because they were setting up their own monuments to General Maistre, at all the national celebrations they added theirs. That they weren't worth a single member of the programming board, but I find that, to say the least, sad. On the other hand, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say the following. Not because I am a great friend of music myself, but because the audience is also great friends of music, because RTV has its own music production, because of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, because RTV also has its own symphony orchestra, because of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, because RTV also has its own Big Bend, because RTV also has a record production, it would be good for us to put someone in the music world among the proposals. He was proposed by the Faculty of AGRFT dean, Mr Mihelčič, outside the world a renowned musician, but there was no room for him in here. There were also suggestions from Slovenian musicians, but they did not get anyone either. And you see, this world is extremely poor and poor based on what it has to do, what it has to do in the program. I think, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we are at a time of market economy and that with such conduct as we have witnessed to him from the adoption of the law to this practice now, public RTV will be an easy prey of commercial television. As I have said many times, I am in the autumn of my life that I do not want to live in a time unit "one pop", the time it will take to quickly switch to the POP TV program due to the inquality content of RTV Slovenia. Because of this, I say once again, we have done well in point 1.a on the proposal of political parties, but what we have done on the proposal - say whatever you want - is for the public concerned, but it is a disaster and I will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Unlike some of my speakers, I will support this programming council. And surely this programming world, if we support it today or in these days, is not to blame for such a state as it is at the national level. Just look at what the New Year's program was like, and judge for yourself. People meet me on the street, they complain to me, they advise me, and I summarize some of it, and I imagine it myself. It is true that the programme council proposed by Kviaz to us in the National Assembly to accept it is not as complex as some of the opposition want it, and in my personal opinion, the Big Bend will be doing exactly the same or even better in this public television agency as it has been so far. I myself wanted a lot of culture to come into the programming world, but that did not happen, and someone else could have the opportunity and opportunity to exercise their knowledge and ability in this particular programming world. It is important, however, that in this place, respected colleagues and colleagues, I emphasise and say: when we adopted the law, the Slovenian People's Party worked together and also achieved that the Programme Council is composed regionally or from various parts of the Republic of Slovenia. This composition of the programming board for me is personally made up and better than we could expect. And the problem is only one - from the discussions I have heard so far, especially from the opposition, I can conclude the following - so far someone has owned a public Radio Television of Slovenia, a public institution, as if it were Ljubljana TV. Wrong! Dear colleagues and colleagues, it would be good for many to make contact with some of the employees inside this house who would introduce you, which lobbyists and how they controlled this house. Even for such and other appointments, even in the previous term, when we appointed supervisory members and so on. That is why this rumbling is too much today in this place, because with this programming world, this house will become Slovenian, not Ljubljana, in my personal opinion. Slovenian. And no one will convince me that someone who comes from Maribor, whether it is Mr. Pivec or Mr. Štuhec, or also a professor who has been named by the client line into this programming world, Dr. Jan Bezenškov, that these are not quality staff, that they are not able to participate in the programming world, no one. There's only one problem. These lobbies, who so far controlled this house, have lost power because members of the programming world are scattered across Slovenia, which is fair and correct to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who, in any way with their contributions, contribute to the existence of this house, which we call RTV Slovenia. And this house is not Ljubljana and this house is Slovenian. And that's how it has to go on. And I certainly trust these people, both by education and by knowledge and by ability, and I myself will support the proposal of Kviaz, as we have received it on the table today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't dare say that the proposed programming council is absolutely good. For if I could paraphrase the Kanta here: absolutely good in this world is only good will [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u120	At least I didn't think it was too much of a good will on Queazu. It is true, however, that apart from those candidates who have been proposed by the party line, I do not see many people in this future programming world who would be over-contaminated by politics, as has been the case in the RTV world so far, and I think that this fact needs to be welcomed. These days, the Koroška asks me why there is none of its people in the programming world. Let me tell them: in the programming world there will also be Korošec, a representative who resides in Koroška, Radljah ob Drava, this is Jernej Pikalo. This is based on this quota proposed by political parties, which is on the proposal of the Social Democrats. Unfortunately, in the programming world, there will not be a member of the so-called civil society, from the civil sphere, because the seats in the programming world are too small, unfortunately. And so civil society from Koroška will not at least be an important co-founder of this national television programming policy. On the other hand, we are at least comforted by the fact that we have important creators of the national program. If we look at, of the six journalists, the heads of national television for the central TV diary and the echoes, there are three, that's half, 50%, from Koroška. Janja Koren is Korošica, or now lives in Gorenjska, Slavko Bobovnik is Korošec, Tomaž Ranc is an indigenous Korošec, coming from that old part of Korošek, not from its expanded geography. In addition to these determined journalists, I think that Koroška has a number of people who could represent civil society in the programming world. Unfortunately, these fundamental limits are established, without which obviously they do not go here. Of course, we could have a long and broad debate on whether the Programme Council is also regionally balanced. Of the 21 members of the Programme Council, which we are going to appoint tomorrow, it is from Ljubljana or its lower part 8 members. That's a good third. Is it too little, is it too much, of course, is a matter of discussion. It turns out that this fuse, which is incorporated into the law, is a uniform regional representation, but it is good. And of course on this basis we can still talk about TV, RTV Slovenia. Otherwise, if this percentage were to fall, of course we could talk about TV, or RTV Ljubljana, this is about the name that this television or radio once had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President, a nice greeting to everyone. So we are discussing the members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Council, and we can be sure that in front of all those who will be clearly elected today, at least the state of the spirit in this House is such that there is no doubt, a very difficult task. A very difficult task for at least two reasons: they will have to take care of better television and cheaper television. These are undoubtedly two messages from the referendum, which, in my opinion and in the opinion of many, were the most misleading. With regard to good television, which TV is better, which is worse, of course opinions can be shared and each has its own taste, its own view and its own criteria, but RTV should be better for the widest possible range of people, i.e. for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Unfortunately, recent public opinion measurements show that RTV will be good for a small number of people in such a composition of the programming world and with such orientation. With regard to cheaper television, those who spoke of it knew that they were deceiving. Relatively, the issue may be cheaper on the basis of inflation, but it is certainly more expensive if you have to, or if you have to, for the same money, if you have to pay the same and get less quality, less quality - so this too certainly does not hold up serious analysis and serious criteria. We have already heard that RTV, as far as it follows and as far as the software world will follow its political bots, will become interesting for the ever smaller circle of people and will thus be easy prey to competing TVs, i.e. POP TV and others. I am sure that this empty space will also be used by many who are not yet, and not least not so bad, the problem is that so far we are paying this public television out of subscription to all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, and it is a shame that we will not get what we deserve for our money and, of course, what we can rightly expect. We have also heard about the apolitical nature of the programme council, but it is not necessary to be a very great expert in order to understand each other, one is a proposal and the other, of course, is an election. And it is not true that there will be 5, but 5 plus 16 members here will be elected, confirmed and the only thing I can, of course, welcome is the regional balance of the Programme Council, which we will achieve by such election or by achieving. Of course, for the benefit of this Slovenia, everyone could also wish for the greater apoliticality of the programme world and that we would really care for such a television, which will be as wide as possible as possible for the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u123	Thank you. The word is Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia was one of the first steps of the new government in the desire for absolute rule after the pre-election elections in addition to the Law on Public Servants. After you took over the majority of this hall, in the government, in the repressive authorities, for example, on the basis of the law on public servants, after you started "breaking" in the economy and after companies no longer deal with development, but mainly with the adaptability of the new authority, and after having a tenth of the expected economy at the end of the year as in the last year of the previous government, it was necessary to enforce the law on state television. Today we're going to make public television a national government television. That this decision by Mr Janš and the ruling coalition was necessary in order to exercise absolute power shows, of course, the decisions of the government, which cancels the contract to the political barometer, because it predicted bad weather. I have no doubt that the power disturbed by numbers is a power which, by a well-known principle: the headship of the messenger of the bad news, that this authority of the law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia will not abuse. The more bad data, the worse facts, the more pressure will be exerted on editorial policy. It is known that we have assessed that such a legal possibility of turning public into state television is a poor road map for democracy and that we have therefore tested this desire of the ruling coalition not a referendum. I accept the outcome of the referendum on Radiotelevision Slovenia. The will of the people is legitimate and the outcome of the referendum is clear. However, even though you won the referendum, I cannot overlook the fact that this referendum was the first referendum of Slovenia, where the positions of the coalition were explicitly confirmed by the Roman Catholic Church and so-called "reservative positions". This became clear to me last Sunday, when instead of a sports afternoon we had another, church afternoon, transfer of the dedication of one of the church dignitaries. Although the law allowed, and not automatically, to ensure that the ruling coalition would abuse radio broadcasting, we expected you to keep your promises when it comes to the programming world, the control world, and we are doing so today. We expected the ruling coalition to maintain the principles of proportionality in the composition of the two worlds, in particular the supervisory coalition, or that it would be correct for us to have the majority representation of independent candidates in the supervisory body. We don't have that. This means that instead of publicizing state television, I understand that because nothing stops you in the desire for absolute control. At the beginning of today's session, we had a grave violation of the direct provisions of the Constitution. What made you 48 today at the beginning of the meeting is a grave violation of Article 93 of the Constitution. Mr Janša went on public radio with the help of you, here, in the National Assembly. After successfully receiving the largest newspaper, Mercator, Work, and so on - he damaged Slovenian taxpayers for 29 billion - and after you voted against the Constitution again today, it was logical and logical to conclude today the operation to take over Radiotelevision Slovenia. It's a good thing we're talking about this in direct transmission. This will be, if you truly respect the law, one of the rare possibilities of people learning the truth. The truth is, you promised a better program, but we're getting another one, I'll say, very church television. The truth is, you promised a lower subscription, and that's not gonna happen. All we are getting today is the state television programming world, in which the ruling coalition has virtually absolute representation, the same is true in the control world, and that is why we are receiving state television today. If I do. The ruling coalition of the narrow outcome of the referendum did not understand as a lesson that it had barely received a referendum, but as a mandate for political will on radio television. This is the only thing that can be judged by today's vote. And who will be the victim? In the first place Radiotelevision Slovenia, and then all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who will simply lose information about the deteriorating economic situation. In the end, you will be the victims of today's creation of state television for the partial interests of absolute power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Today we have heard a lot about the composition of this programming world - mainly about the programming world, of course we will also vote on the control council, but this has been the most talked about how the staff of a given profile is lacking. But as far as I'm aware, we have over 16 different profiles, those basic profiles, so if we went after that, we couldn't have made 16 candidates at all. As we imagine, we have more than 16 regions, each has its own region. That is to say, even if we looked at the regional composition, we couldn't get 16 candidates at all. Then there's the sex structure and then it gets complicated anyway. We're also talking, this company, they don't have their own representative. We have a few hundred societies, it's not possible to put together and not get someone who doesn't have a representative, that's perfectly clear. Of course, then we can go to other spheres, to sports. But if we were to go here and say yes, why do football players have, they don't have handball players, they don't have basketball players. We're not going anywhere! We cannot put together 16 candidates who would be members of this world after such thinking. Well, that means no one is actually very happy. It can't be because there's always someone who doesn't have a representative. But something is true, and I can say with all certainty and responsibility: we have never had such a wide choice, as broad a procedure as we have now had. If it has already happened that there has been such a wide choice, then Parliament has been confirmed by what someone else has proposed, but never or very rarely. Now not only are we going to confirm in Parliament, but we have also chosen between 200 and several other candidates. That's never happened before. Such a broad approach is certainly democratic or more democratic than where you just confirm it; probably no one will say it is not true. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start at the beginning. What do we want to achieve with this new law on RTV, which even had to go to the referendum? If and when we're talking about RTV, we have to ask ourselves first or go to the beginning, so to the audience. We are all citizens, and we are also viewers. And what is our priority, our desire to do so? We want a good programme, a visionary program, an interesting programme, a good signal coverage that we can monitor, I will say, the national orientation of such a programme, but whether it is public, state or private television - it is always present and is a good, national component. And not least, transparency of business, but this is also very important. Whether it's public or public, as you call it, I use both categories on purpose, it doesn't matter after all. We want to be transparent so we know where the finances are going. Because everyone is a contributor and likes to know how this money is spent and what happens. And now we're going to analyze what it's like to be at individual points where we are. It's a good program. My colleague already talked about the New Year's program. I completely agree with him. I'm not gonna say that he was a total mess, but I don't know how good he was, and I can't say, I know much better, that's the word, there's a lot more to be done. It's about national orientation. I'm not gonna say it's the opposite, but I wonder why. Sometimes he smiles and hesitates about Slovenian independence - it was only seven days of war, and there was something going on, and they even "martin'," right? That's what we heard. But I don't know if this just contributes to the good reputation of national television, or whatever it is, whether it's public or state. I also asked myself why Commissioner Rex, who is a good show, had an advantage over the national celebration. I still don't get it, and I'm sure no one will be able to answer that. This also includes some international balance of presentation and attitude towards different countries in the world. So much hatred and hatred for one country that is considered, I don't know, a pillar of democracy, as on our national television, I haven't seen it and I don't know why! And this was the subject of an author who was there, but now he's gone. I've never heard so much hate, but I don't know why. I'm not saying we should praise that country. Why is that? But let him properly present himself: what is good is good, what is bad is bad, but what is bad is bad; but specifically, only hatred, and that is not clear to me. As far as transparency is concerned, I cannot say that the situation on this kind of public television is very transparent, then we would not have all those mice around Eltelsat and the like when these stocks grow twice or three times in one month, and I will not sell them out again. And we wouldn't be able to say that it was a good business, because, as far as I know, even now there is no business plan for this period, which is now and beyond, because it was simply not accepted - why, I don't understand either. That's what they say. Everything's not so good. Once again, I am not saying that everything is bad, and I am not saying that. And I hope that this new organisation will give more personal responsibility to the leaders in this institution. So far it has been that there was no such responsibility and that we were essentially all responsible for this institution somewhere, but no one was responsible, and this is a paradise for some machination - it can. Thus, the matter is not basically good, and I now hope that these people who will have positions of responsibility in this institution will have their rights, their responsibilities and also their responsibilities. So far it hasn't been, there hasn't been one, there hasn't been another, there hasn't been a third. And I hope that this will now be resolved within the framework of these powers they have. And I hope that the work of public RTV will also take into account the audience. I'm hoping to say that these were the only ones that have been forgotten so far, whether it was fair or ignorant, that I don't care, the viewers had virtually nothing here. If that were not the case, then it could not have happened that, for example, the vote for Emma is said to be for our representatives at this international competition; let's say that we would have won the Sisters. By no means would viewers have this authority of their own, not by any means! I have nothing against them, but not by any means! And then that next year would happen, because whoever should win instead of Sisters didn't win, and next year then wins - that's not going to work. Thus, the viewers have not taken nothing into account in this and I am sure that the content will now also get the right place, and also the right form, and I hope that they will not have the main words there, which also prescribe us, what kind of music is good, interesting, interesting and should we listen to it. Slovenian turbo folk music is perplexing, but foreign turbo folk is unique, beautiful, which we have to listen to, and we give it the best time in Sunday hours. I hope it doesn't happen again. This does not mean that by now, as I have mentioned many times, and I will once again that everything has been wrong - it has not been. I'm also sure there were a lot of people out there who wanted to work well and professionally, but somehow they got lost in this bike the way it was. I'm not going to go around the way it was. I'm about to change and make this bike work differently. And they got lost there, and sometimes they had to support some sort of statistic, where 8 is equal to 40 or something like that, they just had to. In addition, I would say that; sometimes it has also happened that they had to support positions - and I will tell you in particular that you will not tell me that I am talking to myself - when, for example, our finance minister laughed for six months that he is incompetent, that he knows nothing, then comes out of Europe confirmation or praises that he has been declared after the most defending of the European financial magazine, that he is the best minister in Europe, that he has been declared public. Our position was quite different from that of Europe. I will not ask now how they got to the other; mainly these people, who had to defend such views, put them on some strange ground, and Europe thinks otherwise. And I'm hoping it'll turn to better public RTV, so I'm going to back this list up. I'm not saying it's ideal, it's not, because I initially told you why it's not possible, because there's always someone who's out of 16 places, so that's the problem. I hope and wish that these people, who will be confirmed tomorrow - I hope that everything will go smoothly through - that they will do well and successfully this task, which is entrusted to them and for which I will also give my voice. However, I would say that despite these changes on this public RTV and in general in Slovenia, the sun is still rising in the east and setting in the west, that the grass is still green and that there is nothing to fear about what is going to happen now in Slovenia, what is going to happen because Janša's government is because we are going to change this law because we are going to name the new world that we have chosen from 200 candidates. So these fears, gentlemen, there's no need, and I don't know who would be the victim of this right now. 'Cause that's what I'm gonna say. Even under such changes, Slovenia has chosen 200 billion dollars each year in a new financial perspective in Europe, and I do not know who would be the victim now, Slovenia certainly not, and despite these changes this has happened. It is said that there is no need to be intimidated if we change anything, that everything in Slovenia will be wrong because it is a different authority that thinks differently and has different priorities, and if you want, also different values. And for this reason, I will also support this proposal for these new bodies on public RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irgel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking here in the National Assembly about the formation of the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board. In this debate alone, I will not go to the individual candidates who have been endorsed by the Commission on Elections, but I am convinced that today is finally, thank God, the time has come for us to have people selected in a transparent, clear and transparent manner in the Programme Council. In all these years, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have not had the opportunity to cooperate or create some content on TV Slovenia, which should work as a public institution in the first place exclusively for the benefit and well-informedness of its viewers. Unfortunately, we have all too often witnessed that information has not been given in an objective and impartial manner. The fact is that all these years they have been in the programming world, I will not say appointed, but rather delegated to certain people from so-called civil society, mostly under the current position. However, this type of appointment is far from transparent in my view, perhaps not even a democratic way of forming a programme world. Already in the debate on the law on RTV Slovenia in the opposition, you tried to convince the public and even to intimidate them for moments by taking away something that civil society has never actually had. Where, then, because of this new way of shaping the programming world, there will now be people sitting in the programming world who want to improve the programme of Television Slovenia, in particular its operation, and there will not be people who have been directed so far by closed, privileged and also provenly politicised groups, of which some think they represent civil society. Today, we can also see that, contrary to current practice, it finally shows, given the names we can see, which are proposed, that the ruling coalition wants to act constructively and in conjunction with the opposition, which, unfortunately so far, we have not been able to detect by the then ruling coalition. Only through such decisions can we reach certain agreements within programme decisions for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will also dare to say at this point that so far there has certainly been some sort of self-censorship on TV in Slovenia. The system itself allowed, among other things, not to have a director who was responsible. Although the director had little competence, but he also had little responsibility, he could have said the price of no responsibility. And this obviously also suited the opposition, because it never knew who was drinking, who was paying, and I am not surprised that RTV Slovenia is in such financial and other problems as it is currently. We also listened long and wide to the entire pre-referendum campaign by the opposition to allow the new law to politicize this house. This is, of course, ridiculous if we know that the policy of today's opposition is literally intertwined in all the seasons of the RTV house operating system. Not to mention here all the things that have already been said in the electoral pre-referendum campaign itself and even when we were talking about the new law on RTV Slovenia. Finally, all I want to say is that I am confident that the programme world, elected in such a way, is to say, by a procedure where virtually every citizen can participate, will make it possible to better operate RTV Slovenia, as it will consist of people representing different social groups and not just some, of course, that has been a multi-annual practice until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I'm going to say first, I hope that the ruling coalition has acquired enough propane to contain all these pores through which politics has so far penetrated the RTV house. Of course, I would not have hoped to go to the slippery ground to comment, evaluate, value a program scheme or watch television, so I will focus on three facts. What I had in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group and, of course, I did not initiate any demagogies when I spoke about the political impact of this choice, which we will confirm or appoint today or tomorrow. Here I have a thorough empirical review of the vote in four rounds. And you will not believe it; in the first round it is by accident or by miracle, otherwise I do not believe in these things, two NSI Members, six SDS Members and two SLS Members surrounded 13 of the same candidates. Accidentally in the first round. In the first round, it happened by accident. And these 13 candidates are finally on the list of the current 16 that we will decide about tomorrow. It's only in empirical evidence that it's hard to convince me that it's not possible for you to agree in a coalition to determine who is the representative of this civil society. And another proof - or empirical proof of this civil society that we're talking about so much. Look back, you'll remember, 2 years, 3 years, there's some kind of public document, something has to be done. The holders of this document were publicly recognised citizens of Slovenia from various fields, but all under the company of civil society. And today I can list you from this box: Dr. Simoniti is the Minister of Government, Barbara Brezigar is the Attorney General, Dr. Beast is the Minister, Dr. Sturm is the Minister, Dr. Jambrek and Dr. Tone Jerovšek was in the Bajuk government, Dr. Zorn is in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, but this is not where it ends. Today you have five candidates for the programme world on the list of this first set: Jože Snoj, Bine Matoh, Stane Granda, Ivo Jakob and Ivan Štuhec. I took you out of my memory, because sometimes it's good for you to have a little memory and so much empirical. So much for this civil society and these associations. On the subject of sports. There's been a lot of choices in the past. I have to tell you because I also come from a sports association that there have been 10 times as many electors as there have been now candidates who have proposed 214 to elect 14 representatives. There were 10 times as many electors who chose it. And if we stay in sports, every day in Ljubljana 60,000 or 65,000 young people go to a sports facility or to a sports event that actively engages in sports. I'm only talking about Ljubljana, 65,000. And you today do not have a sport representative in this programming world, and more than 40% of the software scheme is in possession of this sport. And in the end, when some of the current Members, although sitting for a long time, were apparently not taught how the former TV programme council elected its president. He was proposed by the elected, those members of the programming board, of themselves. And unfortunately, it happened that the former mayoral candidate in Ljubljana, a representative, or I will say, on the list of SDS, was the one who was one of the signatories that proposed Janez Kocijancič as president. Unfortunately! These were relations in that programming world, and so it happened, but unfortunately let us now read either to the one he proposed or to Janez Kocjančič, who did not accept this function at all. Last but not least, the members of the programming board elected him as their president, as will be the case now. So I would end with a sentence written by your Prime Minister and Coalition, Prime Minister Janez Janša, in your propaganda paper for the referendum. Once this obstacle is removed, when this law on RTV is passed, which has not now allowed greater prosperity for people, it will be better in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I am gathering a very nice greeting on the very pleasant subject ahead of us today, about the implementation of the law on RTV Slovenia in that part that is under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. You know, Murphy's Law on Parliament says that whoever really respects the law and appreciates good sausage, it's better that he never sees how one and the other work in practice. We are not here today, and we will not adopt any laws, but sausages have already been given or served on a table, one just now, and allow me to cut them properly for you. First. I understand here, but accept my deepest condolences, the anger of colleagues from the United List or the Social Democrats, because in this composition and in no future composition will their most precious staff, the former president of their party, and most importantly, no party is in this composition, politics is withdrawing from RTV, so the law is working. That's essential, colleagues. Second. The next sausage that was a red thread today. You all say: yes, the composition is that, the policy takes over, we listened to the LDS and the United List, which talked about it incredibly much. The same people in the hallway, and even in the past days, even in newspapers, you could have read something a little bit better, they said, "The coalition's broken down, we're going to have a majority in the new programming world." That's what the left hand says. That's what you say, if someone takes over politically, then that's the left, because the same people have said it, just count each other. Of course, a similar view was expressed on the other hand. This means that the law works because it is obviously such a structure that no one really knows exactly what is chosen in the scratch. No one has spoken today, at least what I have heard, about what is essential, about autonomy and some of the names on this list, are, in my firm belief, such that they are not actually possible if we do not do very much injustice to them, which is to pass on to one side or the other. Personally - this is not my list, I would like to tell you publicly - I would like to have more of those names, I would like to have some names among them that I would like to vote for, such as, I don't know, Mr. Loize Slak, say, whether the rector of the faculty for music, Mr. Mihelčič, or Dr. Bernard Nežman, a distinguished publicist. I would love to vote for them, but unfortunately, those who have just taken part in this decision have given priority to others. It was of great importance to the obvious regional classification, although the law made it very clear that this meant, above all, that it was one of the criteria and that it was not an absolute criterion. Perhaps we could give priority to another criterion to a greater extent, but now the list is what it is, and we talk about it. On this list, in my firm belief, there is a very large majority of the really strong names of people who, with their knowledge, reputation and abilities, can help to improve the state of public television. On the other hand, I must also say this, there is also some name, which, frankly, I do not know exactly how it came to be in this choice. Because if anyone thinks that it's, I don't know, playing the trust of their colleagues or spilling everything that's ridiculous on the other-thinking merit of opening the door to the RTV programming world, I don't personally agree with it, and whoever thinks that way interprets the law in the wrong way. But once again, the vast majority of the names are decisive and these people have been given the first opportunity to be able to run at all, because if there was no change of law, they knew exactly what the composition would be like, and it was clear in advance that the programming world would be flexibly left because this selection of LDS and then the United List, today SD, had already done in 1994, when it was writing the basic law because it chose the majority of those who were close to them. The others couldn't even propose to anyone! And if something was wrong, it said, "Oops, this is civil society! "While RTV was headed by a professional politician, even the former president of a political party. I'm asking you nicely, but not all Slovenes and Slovenes are crazy. Now, of course, the situation will be different, but the legacy that has remained, and with which these people, whom we will now decide, will certainly not be good. Especially the ones from the last period. We all know that there were a bunch of documents about this when we had a debate on the referendum I showed them, about this thick peak of the list was just the cleaning documents, about the political impact that was carried out through the former RTV world, and even directly on RTV by LDS and SD, of course. I hope this will be significantly different now. In particular, I should point out that when it is necessary to assess the work of RTV, it is necessary to look at the real situation that the former have left behind. The last move, my colleagues, took a decision on Christmas, distributed a rich Christmas - thank God, I give it to them from the bottom of my heart, every employee on RTV. But with this they admitted, "de jure and de facto", that RTV Slovenia currently has enough and could otherwise say too much money. At the same time, these same people at the same meeting led by the same colleague Kocijancič did not adopt a financial plan for the future and thus did not allow for the normal functioning of public broadcasting. Today, as I have heard, no one has discussed this. This is a shame, for they acknowledged that they understood their role primarily as political commissioners, and when it was taken from them, they were suddenly not interested in all of this anymore. Then they accepted whole speakers about how wonderful and good they were and how wrong they were, but they did not take care of the normal functioning of that institution for the benefit of all the citizens and citizens who were once put under that previous law. This is the reality that these chosen ones will now have to deal with. The ratios you've been talking about. As I said, they're different than you said here today, which you already admit in the hallway. Let's say one that's measurable. You've all been talking about the supervisory board that there's not a good relationship. In doing so, of course, you silenced that the relationship was quite different, as you can see at first glance. Above all, it is not an invention that one party has two representatives, what this coalition would have done - this was the invention of LDS in the previous term. Until then, there was actually a silent principle, as some of you spoke. Then a different and consistent body was established, but in line with legal practice, the Commission apparently acted when it decided to do so. If someone doesn't like something right now, write it down, fellows, to yourself. You've changed the rules of the game. We just respect them. A few more notable facts. There were many words about the new magazine, all about how much these people should now be rewarded. I'm sorry, I'm saying the opposite - the new magazine is underrepresented. Take a look at how many people she actually proposed are actually included in this list and how many, let's say, what do I know, those proposed by Forum 21. That's a very interesting comparison, isn't it? However, if there are other institutions that are just gravity, renamed to the Forum, we add, then the relationship will be interesting at all. I owe some more answers to some very specific questions. As far as the issue of direct transmission is concerned. Today I deliberately used that syntagma that I said at the outset, because today, as far as I'm concerned, it's a direct transmission. So you can actually see what someone says, what someone stands for, and what they defend. And this can also be compared to the effect. I hope and expect that the law will be respected, that such practice will also be in the future. Not through any satellite, of course everything can be done and it must be done by letter of law through a secret network. Whoever does it differently or wants to do it differently is breaking the law, I say it in public. The other thing about direct transmissions is why they're not there. That was Mr Bevik's direct statement. You know, at this point, it is one who still has everything even in his hands, and if this is denied a hundred times, and it will be until the establishment of a new world, Mr Janez Kocijancič, who is, of course, a long-standing member of the United List. And Mr Bevk could discuss why there are no direct transfers within the party. At this point, because the old statute and the old power ratio still apply, Janez Kocijancič is still the strongest figure of RTV Slovenia. As far as the reduction is concerned, which some of you have been talking about. This is the point at which Forum 21, if you went to a level such as that of some of you discussing the Slovenian Church, would say "left rhubarb command", now trying to spill, according to the instructions of that little great leader, first the discreditation, then the liquidation - I don't know when to expect it, and the threatening letters I've got quite a bit, and the baking powder, so that I can bake some trail, which you ask my secretary. And of course I didn't go to the media with this, like some others do, because I personally think it's depressed. Now what's serious. When it came to marriage and when it came to a referendum, I made it very clear what a mechanism was. The existing mechanism, which was in force under the old law, which allowed for coordination with inflation growth, is no longer in the new law. And so, as inflation is going to progress, it will actually reduce its subscription, it will actually lower its value. And that's exactly what's been going on, and it's going to happen in the coming years. For the following year, inflation is projected at about 2%, perhaps a percentage more if fuel is even more expensive, and for that it will be less necessary for public broadcasting. For the reasons I mentioned earlier, which was blamed by the very world under the leadership of Mr Kocjančič, because a new financial plan is not adopted, because it is not possible to start new projects on RTV, of course, projects of a programme nature, but I think that all the reasons why even the government would act, because it is not me, as of course through which, let's say, the former Court jester from Kučan's Court is constantly launching into the media, that is not my decision, that the government decides, can also be accepted a nominal reduction. I think that's what all the conditions are for. I hope they can hear me right now. For as long as there are no new projects and they cannot be started, for which is the fault of Mr Kocijancič and his chamberlain burning there. I think this money needs to be "sprayed" and it's in the pockets of a taxpayer. And that's what all reasonable conditions are for. That TV has enough and too much money, but the same people have proved themselves by paying off Christmas. However, if that is not the case, they have acted to the detriment of the public institution, its programme and all citizens and citizens. Very simple. So much for me. Personally, as I have said, I think it is high time that RTV Slovenia gets new responsible leadership and I want everyone who, I am sure, will be elected, a lot of successful and hard work, so that the public institution will become an institution that works up to all of the same criteria while also having a lot of good fun for citizens and citizens. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today I learned something new from Mr Grimes. That Mr Janez Kocijancič is still afraid and trembling on RTV Slovenia. Therefore, I wonder who is even more afraid and trembling on this same television that the President of the Council of RTV Slovenia and the President of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, Janez Kocijancič, allowed two and half direct transmissions of the dedication of the Ljubljana Assistant Bishop on Sunday afternoon instead of an important international handball game. It is truly surprising that the former United Nations Social Democrats or Social Democrats are still in control of this central national medium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u135	I'm asking for a little more attention. We have two other debaters, Mag. A fair and then, if he wants, Mr. Tank. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, listeners and viewers as well! The thing is, about what they were told, Grimm's stories, when the main hero didn't know how to go any further, he started looking back. Those who do not see the future are seen in the past, and today we have heard more about Mr Kocijancič and about past stories and fairy tales than about how it will continue or how it should already be. The law on RTV has already entered into force, there is no better programme and it is not in sight, nor will the subscription be lower, at least for the so-called third parliamentary programme, which is now not a new concept, but such meetings, extraordinary as today, have been passed on to the satisfaction of all viewers and viewers in previous totalitarian times. People also see who wants to discuss these matters and who is not here. I would recommend to my fellow Members that those promises we made before the referendum should take effect and come true. However, I am more concerned that he has previously served as the president of a party, that this transparency and principle have now become lost. That those who draw all these neither from behind nor show hope. The fact is that it is a human bulldozer, which, like in many cases from the new government, went straight to the goal, here due to a blurry strategically made two, three bends around the hill, that we finally reached those saints supported by politics. And that's what worries us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u137	Mag. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u138	Look at the fellows! I would suggest that we all stick together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Please read article 70. It's not a condition for someone to be named. How many more times do I have to say this? Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u140	I hope we're listening very carefully and we all know what's offensive and what's not. And I am very embarrassed that such words come from that parliamentary group, which, while always has so many protests against any insult of other colleagues in this Chamber to say. In view of the fact that some things have just been explained very precisely, but I can also document them, let's say by a letter to the media, in which I once, three months ago, even during the referendum, very carefully explained these mechanisms and also said this at a press conference, which is also recorded on the tape and we can look at it immediately. And that's what you've been discussing, even the last one right now, you know very well, and I've said honestly and behind my words, and I can document them, as I said, then I can only point out that some people think they're very happy in this country, that there's no longer those old Vienna schools, that they're gonna wash themselves in their mouths, because today the use of soap in this national assembly would be pretty big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm going to quote paragraph 70 again. Yeah, well, I'll do it anyway. A replica is possible when the debate of an individual Member or Member is misinterpreted or misinterpreted. In practice, of course, the principle that a replica is allowed when someone is named has been applied, but this is not contained in Article 70. So much for information. And now the final debater, and then we will divide the rest of the time as necessary, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. I'd be here because time is short, alerting only some of the other things that have remained perhaps less noticeable. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that civil society in the programming world has not proposed almost anyone or anyone who has already been in this body. However, the chosen one is certainly not one of those who would have already worked in this body. I therefore think that this proposal, or the way in which the programme world is recruited, is very good, because this also opens up a new dimension, let there be a new possibility for those who, due to the key so far, have no chance of proposing to this body. This is slightly different in the part where political parties have proposed, in the work concerning the Supervisory Board and also the Programme Council. The vast majority of proposals are completely new, different than they have been so far, except that the biggest opposition party has proposed the personnel that have already been in this body, both in the programming world and in the supervisory world. Dr Miheljak and Nikola Damjanič have played a very important role in the previous mandate and the rest of the programming world, and Liberal Democracy has probably re-proposed from these continuous movements, and also probably because it would also lead a policy and advocate a policy that has so far been one of the few that has not allowed its citizens to see their Members in direct transmission. All other countries originating in the former Yugoslavia are able to do so, even some enclaves originating in the territory of Bosnia have direct transfers to work. I would like to mention that at the last meeting of the National Assembly we also heard a comparison when the Member said that her congregation had been far behind Montenegro and was very surprised during this recent period. I admit that it is very bad that she has fallen behind for Montenegro, but I could also say that the three mandates were formerly the Liberal Government and the three mandates are already being run by this congregation. However, this same Montenegro probably has direct transfers from its national assembly and this advanced Slovenia is also lagging behind the countries of the former Yugoslavia and Montenegro. And we can regret that in this particular information area, we are lagging behind the south, and we are also showing deficits for the developed north. I think this is a shame, and I hope that these authorities, which we will now appoint, will also be able to provide direct transfers from the National Assembly as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters have been given the floor. Since time has not yet run out, we have a good 22 minutes, I wonder who else is answering. We have a very interesting situation. I propose, given the number of applicants, that each parliamentary group has a 2 minute option. [[Back-up advertising.]] Look, I can read who's registered. Please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Madam President, as long as memory does not fool me, I have, on behalf of the motioners, a decision of 15 minutes which I have not used before, and I ask that it be made possible for me to explain further for a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u145	No, no, that's no longer possible because the debate is over and now the time remaining is shared among the applicants. Of course, more are reported. I propose, or I decide, this way: each parliamentary group has two minutes to discuss it further. Please, who's first? Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u146	No, I have a procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President: divide 12 minutes proportionally, given the strength of the Group of Members, this will be absolutely more correct. This is where people who had given up their words earlier came forward. Those who wanted to prevent those who had already discussed answered, and there was something else to say that they would hear at their rave and so on. The bill is very simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u147	I'm taking ten minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u148	Please take your seats. The proposal I put to the vote is as follows: In accordance with the sixth paragraph of Article 67, on my proposal, the National Assembly may decide to extend the time for discussion. We have 22 applicants, and I suggest that time be extended by allowing each of the applicants to discuss for two minutes. However, I will put this proposal to the vote if it is not voted, there will be no debate, which also does not allow us to measure time in less than one minute. I guess no one wants to explain their voices. We're voting. I note that 13 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] It means that the proposal is not put to the vote. This concludes the debate. We will discuss the conclusions in accordance with the timing of the meeting. If you allow me, I will be finished if not, but I will interrupt the meeting again. [[...]] Please. Mr. Scholch, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u149	President, I suggest you all stop this meeting and we all think very carefully about what happened. Gentlemen, there was some time left for the debate, which at least seemed to indicate that all Members and Members of Parliament were interested in saying something else. When an opportunity was offered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for all applicants to receive two minutes, it would be expected, in accordance with good practices, that at least those who have made themselves known would support this proposal. However, as the ruling coalition is very reluctant to listen to things on this account, it certainly voted against. I look forward to this break in order to take a look at the voting statement, to request the President's list of applicants and to assess your readiness for, as has been said here, a public democratic and transparent debate on the appointment of the RTV Council. I am aware that this is boring for someone and that you are in a hurry, as was said here, to complete the task. Our job is to warn the opposition that you are abusing certain instruments in Parliament. Vice-President, on behalf of the Group Member, I request a half-hour recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u150	Unfortunately, I cannot approve this under the rules of procedure because, after the decision, this request or wish came, not before the decision was taken. The book doesn't let me do that. We've decided on the proposal. The proposal was not adopted and we continue the meeting. And Mr. Squeakle, and then Mr. Squeakle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u151	Please pause before continuing the following [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u152	Mr. Squeakle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u153	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President. We did not understand each other, we request a recess before the meeting, not because of the closed matter, and I suggest that you convene a college.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u154	And Mr. Squeakle, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u155	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! What Mr Školč said is a few basic principles that should be respected in this National Assembly. You've expressed your will to discuss it further. Then, with the power of the ruling coalition, you have also taken away those who want it within the time available to hold the debate. Mr President, I propose that you break off the point of calling on the College of the President of the National Assembly to consult on how to use the time available to the end and that, above all, the Members of the ruling coalition make it clear at this meeting which of them really wants to discuss and who has applied only to prevent the debate of those members of the opposition who are still at our disposal for some time. Presidents, I propose, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we resolve this complication. This has not happened in this national council. You have tabled an amended business proposal, but the ruling coalition has been a bulldozer in order to prevent the debate by members of the opposition, which is still possible under the rules of procedure, from doing so. Mr Školč's proposal is very clear - a break for consultation. Call for advice, as chairman, I do not know where our President of the National Assembly is, so that we can agree within the College of the National Assembly on how we will conclude this point. Everything else is bulldozer action to prevent a debate on an important act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I have proposed, so to speak, the only pragmatic and business option. This option has not been voted on. It is not my duty or my right to determine what the motive was, what the purpose was, what the intention was, whether it is trustworthy, what it is, what it means to be unfaithful, what individual Members of Parliament. That's one. On the other hand, it is possible to suspend the meeting before deciding only after paragraph 73, but before deciding. That's why I'm continuing the session. [[Back-up advertising.]] That's not true, under Article 73. Mr. Skolcz, I would expect you to know the rules of procedure better. Read the second paragraph of Article 73! The conclusions will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the vote at 11.45 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TRADE LAW. Between you and me, I welcome Secretary of State Mag. Starina Kosem, Mr. Director of Mags. A pooh and a member of the state council, Mr. Kaluza. At its 11th extraordinary meeting on 23 December 2005, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on trade law. I give the floor to the representative of the State Council for an explanation, namely, I would like to ask Mr Kaluža, you have five minutes to come before the speaker and give an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 11th extraordinary meeting, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a request that the National Assembly decide again on the law amending the Trade Act, which it voted on 20.12.2005 at its 12th regular session. Our request is supported by an explanation which you have accepted by Members and Members together with a request for a re-decision. Nevertheless, allow me to explain a few more points or additions. On 17 November last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Act on Trade by Reasoning that the proposal is being examined in a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of aligning the draft law with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the provisions of Article 17, paragraph 7, of the Act relating to the size of the sale area in specific locations should be re-ordered. It is clear from the Government's proposal that the Government wished to maintain the referendum decision, as it only applied to the part of the law relating to the sale area for shops in locations exempted from the general rule referred to in the Constitutional Court's decision. Regrettably, in the process of addressing the proposed text in the National Assembly by adopting amendments, the text of the Act has changed by content so that it no longer corresponds to the referendum decision. In order to compare and substantiate, I should say that in the referendum question, there were seven sales locations that could operate even on Sundays, and in the adoption of the amendment, there were 18 of these exceptional locations, and even more of them, which, due to inadequacy, will not be able to implement in practice. Let me just give you one example. According to the responsible Municipality of Ljubljana, the largest Slovenian city in its spatial acts does not determine what the old city centre is. We are convinced that the re-confirmation of the amendment in such content would create additional confusion for both traders and consumers, while at the same time the content of this amendment does not hold back the argument that the referendum will be implemented and the Constitutional Court's decision. We are convinced that a comparison between the content of the referendum question referred to in our written explanation, the content of the proposal for amendments to the law submitted to the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the content of the amendment adopted by the law, gives a firm answer to the opinion of the Council of State, that this alone is not in line with the referendum decision. Therefore, the Council of State considers that its request for re-decision on the amendment of the law is justified since it was adopted at a time when the Council of State was bound by the content of the referendum decision. Dear Members and Members! On behalf of the Council of State, I propose that your decision of 20.12.2005 be repealed by not reaffirming the amendment of the law. I am sure that you will think carefully about the proposal and take a decision that will express the commitment of the National Assembly to democratic standards and respect for the decision taken by the electorate and the electorate in the previous legislative referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. He also requested treatment by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Rezman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The debate on the Committee was fairly brief and relatively calm. This may also be the report. Indeed, the Council of State has requested re-examination by reasoning that the law was not in accordance with the will of the voters expressed in the referendum and not in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. The request for re-negotiation is justified but has not been supported. The government has not confirmed what the Council of State has stated, and it considers that the will of the referendum has been taken into account and that the constitutional right to a free economic initiative has also been respected. Therefore, a compromise was sought between these two rights. Nor did the Committee endorse the position of the State Council, but it rejected that position. He also pointed out that the ambition of the Council of State or the representative of the Council of State to adopt any other compromise solution on the Committee itself was not possible due to business arrangements. We discussed only whether we had a positive or negative opinion on the proposal for a decision as proposed. So that's all it was about. While some Members tried to determine in this debate who was responsible for the situation, we can say that most of the discussions went in terms of finding solutions and addressing the weaknesses in which we found ourselves. We were also kind of satisfied with the government's assurance that what was adopted and we believe will be confirmed today, even by the proposaler, is not something that could not be changed. It has been very clear that this will has been done to monitor the effects of legislation, to determine whether any changes are needed and to do so within three months. The notice of the legal and legislative services in our Parliament was also fitting, even the one that spoke of the fact that, following his judgment last year, the law on trade in B in force was adopted by referendum and that the Council of State was no longer bound by it. At the same time, they pointed out that the weakness of the law currently in force is also in that it does not specify the squares and that this law is binding and can be interpreted in very different ways. It is also necessary to adopt a more precisely defined law. The Committee's proposal therefore agreed, at least as regards those who voted. All those who voted supported the proposal for a decision to adopt the law and the opposition did not want to vote. The Committee has proposed that the law, as it has already been adopted, be reinstated today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u160	I now give the floor to the representative of the proposed explanatory act, State Secretary Mag. Andrijani Starina Kosem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a trade law, ZTC, as adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly in December 2005, be re-adopted. We believe that the law, as adopted in the National Assembly, is appropriate. By means of the proposed amendments, the legislator has legislated certain exceptions which, by their content, are aimed at extending the exceptions to the operating time of the shops. In doing so, the legislator listened to the needs of the economy and, in accordance with its constitutional duty, established an appropriate balance between the public interest protected and expressed in the referendum and the intervention in another constitutionally protected right to freedom of economic initiative. As an economic initiative must not be implemented contrary to public benefit, the legislator is not free to take measures to protect the public benefit. In this case, the legislator binds the general rule of proportionality. The legislator is therefore obliged by the Constitution to apply such a measure which ensures effective protection of the public benefit while at least encroaching on the constitutional right. This is the law on trade [[ZTC]] in the text as adopted at the meeting of the National Assembly on 20.12.2005, also in accordance with the Constitution. We therefore propose that the National Assembly should adopt it again in the form it adopted at its December 2005 meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The first is Srečko Friend to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u163	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the Act on trade in non-conformity with the express will of the electorate and the electorate, as well as contrary to the provisions also laid down by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, some things need to be stressed when it comes to such a mistake and confusion as was the case. Respect for the referendum will is certainly an obligation for all of us, for the referendum cost 700 million dollars, which is not enough money. This referendum is intended to regulate the rights of workers. Of course, this has not worked for trade unions in social dialogue and if this is done in practice, we will also have great surplus labour, which will affect if we look at the labour law, the layer that is the most vulnerable, young people, because older women are protected, women over 50 years old, men over 55 years old, under the labour law, single mothers also, disabled people, and there is nothing left but that for technological surpluses, if they develop this law, we will determine young people who have just reached work. Isn't it another nonsense to have a closed shop on Sundays where only one works? This is also the law that prescribes. And other nonsense, at the cemetery on Sundays have closed flower shop or in the tourist season closed shop. And of course Colosseum, for example, who also wrote - I say all this on the basis of the letters that we received from the parliamentary group - the Colosseum, which is visited by about 2 million 500 people a year, will also be closed. If this is a referendum request, then we can apply it, but in one year we will discuss again in this same place, whether we have made a mistake. We believe ourselves that the rights of workers should be guaranteed in social dialogue, in greater pay and also in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, which requires a 40-hour worker and once a month a weekend. By ensuring this right, I believe that no seller or seller would be dissatisfied. However, the fact is that wages are small, that they do not actually comply with the law in force, and that is why all these matters have occurred in the past. On the one hand, we also paradoxically understand the government's desire to have peace on Sundays and to somehow prevent people from gathering in large centers, because Sundays are not working, we must go to mass. And if there is a paradox here again, the church also violates this Bible tradition because priests work on Sundays. That is why I think that we will support the Slovenian National Party, or we voted each by our will when we vote on this, but we will support this veto, and it is right that it is in essence as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Rezman, who will present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u165	The DeSUS Group does not support the State Council's proposal to support the veto, but supports the Committee's proposal for an economy, accepts the argument put forward by the proposer, the ministry or the government, and accepts what it has written and, as the Committee's legislative and legal services have put forward. But the current state of affairs that we have now, when the Trade B Act is in force, is considered to be worse. And just because the current situation is worse, we support the C-Trade Act, because it's not as good as we want it to be, it's better than the law that's currently in force. This is a fundamental reason why we support the Committee's proposal, i.e. the proposal to reject veto. As has been said on the Committee, in the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that we have been able to withdraw our prepared proposal that the government, together with the Chamber, immediately begin to monitor the consequences of the implementation of the law, keep all the parliamentary groups informed of the results and prepare a proposal for amendments. Since this is what the government has predicted, we have withdrawn this proposal or have not even had to propose it. So the government anticipated what we wanted to do. Since the referendum will has been consummated, we agree or propose to support the law once again. The consequences that we have been able to identify so far, which otherwise cannot be generalized, because they are very sporadic and only show negative trends for a few days. I can assure myself, personally, I have spoken with some representatives, traders and managers, and I have not come across those who would be satisfied with the law that prohibits work on Sundays. But I'm saying it can't be generalized. The DeSUS proposal therefore goes in this direction to support the law once again, to carry out monitoring, to ensure that as soon as possible, if significant negative legal repercussions are identified, the law begins to change and that this is done in order to achieve some consensus between the social partners. For social dialogue, however, there is a current need and we expect the government to be the one that will be the trigger for the early meeting and the search for a possible new compromise. We in the parliamentary group will support the proposal to re-confirm the law as it has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Pajk has the floor to present the SDS position
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We cannot support the veto voted in the State Council in the SDS Group because we believe that the explanations given are not correct or, we have a different opinion. We believe that the law we are talking about is in accordance with the referendum will and also respects the Constitutional Court's decision. The fact is that this law, which has emerged, is a compromise between these two categories, but the compromise is what it is, and therefore in our Group of Members we believe that it is still within the referendum will and is also a respected free economic initiative as a constitutional category. That is why our SDS Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Petek has the floor to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u169	Nice greetings to the vice president, representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we agree with the opinion of the Minister for Economy, Mr Viszak. This opinion himself made it public that the proposed and adopted solutions in marriage, and the law as a whole, are bad or bad. The paradox of this Minister's statement, however, is that these poor solutions have been proposed by the government, represented by the Minister, in cooperation with the parliamentary coalition, which has made the amendment's law worse. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia must therefore take full responsibility for them and for the law as a whole. The second fact that we want to draw attention to and point to the political culture of some is that those who have recently proposed and advocated the requirement that all trade should be closed on Sunday, so they were passionate about these requirements, are now facing a changed situation because they are responsible for taking over the economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the perspective is now completely different, and new, very real issues are emerging in the management of these then and present actors, related to the state and development of Slovenia. The basic issue in deciding whether to approve the law is: Are we obliged to respect the referendum will of people? And the answer is clear. Of course we are. The referendum will is just as it is. The fact is, however, that the law is contrary to what has been stated at the time. On the one hand, the law mentions a number of exceptions, and even coalition MPs argue that old-fashioned cores, health resorts, camps and so on must be included among these. All well and well, but a whole series of these solutions were not covered by the referendum question. Other indications fly to the definition of the spatial restriction of trade. First of all, there was talk of restricting the surface of trade to a maximum of 80 square metres which could be opened under certain conditions. Now this line is shifted to 200 square meters. The argument of the current coalition, which was sometimes the opposition, is that working on Sundays breaks family relations, that children are left to themselves, we ask in the Liberal Democracy, whether mothers and fathers in those stores that have a square of less than 200 square feet have no children. Are those merchants and merchants, mommies and fathers in these stores worth less than those in hypermarkets? This is how the paradox of setting different limits is best shown. The fact is that no serious cost benefit analysis, cost-benefit analysis and benefit analysis has been carried out as to what such a law means. Not only for Slovenian trade, but for a whole range of other industries, especially for tourism, not least if you want to, also for social issues, for family relations and so on. This shows the confusion between the results of the referendum that, by the way, cost us a bit of money and now of this law, where we are all Members, and here it is right to pour ourselves pure wine, with various exceptions, trying to solve what we can at all. In the context of all these open issues, they should be careful and concerned about the data published in the statistical bulletin of the Statistical Office of Slovenia in December 2005 on the business climate in Slovenia, where the indicator for December 2005 is 9 percentage points lower than the average in 2004, i.e. during the period of the previous government rule, and 7% lower than the comparable month in 2004. Closing trade will make the income situation of sellers and sellers worse. They'll have an undisputed lower salary because they won't be getting a week's work allowance. On Sundays, however, only those who are employed for an indefinite or fixed time do not sell or work. On Sundays, many students and students also work in trade activities, which in this way improve their material position and will also be affected. The Trade Act is not in accordance with the Tourism Promotion Act. The trade law will reduce revenues from the sale of trade activities, as domestic and foreign consumers will go shopping in neighbouring countries. For example, in Mercator's case, traffic will fall by 4 to 8 percent, because in Mercator they have a total of 9% of the year's total turnover for Sunday and will not move all Sunday's traffic to the rest of the day. The reduction in trade traffic will also mean that it does not adhere to the Government's claim that the law will have no financial implications for the state budget. As trade activities are reduced due to the Sunday closure of trade, tax revenues from value added tax will be reduced. Let me quote the LDS opinions, quote Dr Mark Jaklič from the Faculty of Economics on "Under the Light" 20.12: Also, due to reduced traffic in trade activities, profits will be reduced, which means that less tax revenues will also be taxed on legal persons' income. This will reduce the gross social product to a lesser extent, but will reduce its growth. The whole type of extension of the type of shops that can be opened on Sunday shall be such as are necessary. Of course, we ask ourselves whether they are in line with the spirit of the referendum decision. One of these is an addition that we do not oppose and support - this has added to the fact that open shops are in the Roma centres. You're wondering why. That's why, of course, there's a chance that you can do shopping in the store first, and then you get a commitment in the church, in principle: everything in one place. On the other hand, this souvenir shop in front of the Postojna Cave and Predjama Castle will still be closed on Sundays, although it is a destination visited annually by more than half a million tourists and visited by more than 5,000 people only on August Sundays. In short, we still have a bunch of open questions, and we wonder what is the law that doesn't answer the many questions that are being asked. We agree with the Minister: it is true, the law is bad. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe in a free economic initiative, we believe in the right to choose, both consumers and employees, employees and capital owners. However, all of this cannot be resolved by universal law. That is why we believe in the social partnership, and we are convinced that the best solution would be the one that employers and workers would accept together in talks, negotiations, and so on. Of course, we will not and cannot take responsibility for a bad marriage, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin with a historical parable. Alexander the Great cut the Gordian knot with a sword centuries ago to open the way to the future for the Greeks. Today in Slovenia we regret that we have a knot that we can call a trading knot that is so complicated that the government doesn't want it or can't cut it. Unlike the government, which did not want to participate actively in the dialogues, we have supported the negotiations of workers and employers that will not harm either, whether it is the protection of workers' rights, the promotion of economic growth or the protection of consumer rights. Therefore, at the time of the adoption of the law, we have also tabled our amendment with the first-signed Member of the Council, Ferri Horvat, which would not endanger areas that depend on the income of tourism in order to eliminate the unequal treatment of economic operators due to restrictions on opening time. The amendment was rejected by the majority by the coalition and the initiative of abuse. The coalition’s representatives saw in it the opportunity to place their own pot and abuse the will of the people. Proposals for the extension of exemptions have been lined up after each other. It began with marinas, camps, continued with cod kernels, and also with burial sites and pilgrim centers. The referendum will of people who were always full of mouths was, in principle, irrelevant to them. It is also interesting that members of the coalition decided that selling candles on Sundays is necessary for the normal life of the consumer, but not selling bread and milk. The idea of the classification of the Roma centres was also publicly surprised by the professor of moral theology, Dr. Ivan Šuhec, who could not possibly understand that on Sundays the store would also be open in Brezh, which offers consumers only, I quote "religious kick". If we add this to the opinion of the new appointed Minister, Dr Damjan, who opposes the bill-maker, today to his fellow Minister, Mr Janez Drobnič, because he believes that the law will cause much unnecessary damage, in particular he thought in economic damage, the confusion is even greater. Poor, sorry, it's not over yet. In the event that the coalition Members today, regardless of the warnings and the opportunity to enforce the changes offered by the Council of State over the veto, re- back up the bill in the proposed form, the Constitutional Court will decide, as announced by some traders, to retain this law tomorrow. This will create a new moment that will complicate this problem even more. That the Members of Social Democracy will not only criticize the decisions of the government and the coalition Members, we advise them to actively engage in future problems, not to avoid dialogue and to accept all political and moral responsibility if in some cases they do not want to make formal commitments. Members of the Social Democrats understand our mission to solve problems, so we will not cooperate with them and we will not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr President, the well-welcome representatives of the government, the honourable Members and Members. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party, we will once again undermine the amendment of the Trade Act, which we voted here in the National Assembly on 20 December, and whose implementation has been vetoed by the State Council. As we know, the amendment to the law has newly defined the permitted areas of trade in specific locations, as well as slightly extended the exceptions to specific locations where trade in restricted areas can be opened on Sunday. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that the amendment adopted by law is indeed a compromise, but at this time an optimal solution, which is still sufficient for the voter's expressed will in the referendum and at the same time follows certain economic initiatives. In view of the constitutional court's request as well as the economic initiatives, of course, the solutions would have been different, taking into account the referendum will, if there had been an agreement between the social partners, between the economic representatives, between employers' representatives and, of course, between employees' representatives. And since this did not happen, the debate in the National Assembly was also appropriate in the adoption of the amendment of the law, this is extensive, but we were mostly only united, because of the economic interests of Article 17 of the Act, that additional exceptions should be included. And these exceptions that we have adopted for us are solutions that need to be respected, consistently implemented and also adopted by the Ministry of the Economy, as the Minister himself has pointed out at the meeting of the labour force, of course, if the law is to be reaffirmed today. And if necessary, the marriage will be complete. We know that, most of the time, in the case of certain exceptions, there is a possibility of abuse, and we will certainly always advocate in our parliamentary group that every law or sub-law must be written in such a way that these abuses will not occur. When Mr Drobnic introduced the amendment of the Trade Law into the National Assembly in 2003, his main purpose was to allow the law to be the majority of trades on Sundays and holidays, including many mothers at home, within the family circle. Despite some additional exceptions, the adopted novels still fulfil this basic purpose, as most shopkeepers will be home on Sundays and holidays. Of course, today we want Members of the New Slovenia Group - The Christian People's Party to re-emphasize the basic purpose of the law and what we stand for, as we have also made clear in the adoption of the novel, and if you say from the LDS species that you heard on the committee that we do not want to talk about it anymore, you are making a strong mistake. Some have gone so far as to refer to our views on the Sunday part of trade that they wrote in the Saturday annex of Work that we are the biggest opponents of the announced reforms, because on Sundays we are restricting consumption. Why not just trade on Sundays when there are other operators doing Sunday work? It will probably not be too much to point out that the proposed law is interfering with an area where we can give up on Sunday's burdens, but at the same time it should not lead to the substantial financial consequences of trade and not cause too much distress to the consumer. You know, respected colleagues and colleagues, a number of economic operators who export and have an appropriate product or service, would be pleased to perform their work even on Sundays, but work only on some Saturdays, sometimes when they are not ordered, even when Friday is no longer working. This would certainly have a positive impact on economic growth, and workers would also be pleased that Sunday work would also be properly paid, which is not the case in the trade sector. Catastrophe and humiliating for traders, as we have been able to perform in these days from the media, how much does a trader who works in Mercator get paid Sunday's work. And how would a lot of mothers be in exchange for these couple of fiches they make on Sunday in Mercator, at that time they'd rather be home with their family. Moreover, in Nova Slovenija we consider that mothers trades are entitled to Sunday's family life. And as I thought last time, only regulated families will provide a brighter future for the Slovenian nation. My fellow Member, Drago Koren, in adopting the amendment of the law, discussed how at parental meetings in schools we are constantly finding out how the violence among young people is increasing, how young people are uneducated and so on. And when we analyze why the situation for young people is the same as it is, we always find that the biggest problems and problems are where families are irregular at home, where children are left on the street from day to day on Saturday and even on Sunday; and this can be the main source of problems with young people. And this is where young people and us parents come in. And all of this is related, among other things, to how much time we have for a family, for individual family members. And the implementation of the amendment of the law, although we have slightly extended the exceptions, will allow more time for the family on Sundays, so we will once again support the amendment of the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that, under the given conditions that we have, the law, the referendum decision, the Constitutional Court's decision, the proposed solution to the greatest extent possible, governs Sunday work and thus protects the weekly rest and family life of workers, while at the same time allowing a well-defined circle of exceptions to the law. We will probably hear words again that some mothers and fathers are in an unequal position, as they will still have to work on Sundays and other days off if they are employed in a trade that the law defines as exceptions. Of course, it would be ideal if all parents, not only those who work in the store, but also those who work in the restaurant, health care, police, traffic, tourism and elsewhere at least one day in the week at home, so together with their children or families. We all know that this is simply not possible. The law we decide protects the values of the family to a certain extent, while allowing for those exceptions that we believe are necessary. Not only is it of some general economic interest, but certain exceptions provide survival for many families, since this is not necessarily a whole range of small family businesses that enable them to carry out their activities normally. Let us once again point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we find that this area, which is set at 200 square metres, is appropriate because it has been determined on the basis of an appropriate analysis and is therefore also appropriate in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision. In adopting this law, we have encountered a number of complications. On the one hand, we are bound by the express will of the people at the referendum and the decision of the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, by rejuvenation of the referendum decision, we are undoubtedly restricting certain traders to the exercise of their activities. Of course, the re-decision on the trade law raises a number of questions, particularly with regard to the so-called specific locations where exceptions are made. These exceptions leave a relatively broad framework in some cases, and only future practice can show whether certain problems will arise with respect to the implementation of this law. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party, we do not rule out the possibility that it may be necessary to amend the law again in a year's time if it is decided, for example, by the Constitutional Court or if it turns out that the solutions we are going to adopt today are not appropriate. To this end, we can be led by agreements between employers and employees or simply by consumers with new arguments convince the government or parliament. If there are strong arguments that the existing solutions are not optimal, of course we will also take them into account with pleasure in the Slovenian People's Party, because the practice will certainly best show the possible weaknesses of the law that we have adopted in extremely difficult circumstances, I repeat, difficult circumstances, for the government as for the national assembly at this time. The government, employers and employees will certainly be careful, but at the same time very closely monitor the implementation of this law and also resolve possible complications collectively for the benefit of all actors in this story, which I think is important for Slovenia and for this our story about tourism, trade and the economy in general. Of course, the appeal to all the government and employers and employees is that we do not solve future such complications at the referendum, but at the table with an agreement, with a compromise. If this had been done at the time, this referendum would probably not have been there and this amendment would not have been there. Unfortunately, this train has taken us here today because we are, and we must adopt this law, because the referendum will is the highest degree of democratic decision that people have taken and we must respect it; and with this law I believe that we respect it to a large extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. As colleague Matjaž Han said, in the parliamentary group - and so am I - we will not support the re-examination of the bill this time either. We believe that the content of the law is poor, inadequate both in terms of the equality of employees, both in terms of the equality of economic operators and both in terms of reference to the decision of the Constitutional Court or to the substantive decision of the referendum. The opening of the debate on working time in trade was conditional on the fact that between employers and employees, their unions did not have an appropriate agreement on the conditions under which operating time should be regulated and what the rights of employees in trade should be in the event of Sunday work. Since there was no such agreement, there were changes to the law in a way that eventually led to a referendum. Unfortunately, because there was not enough willingness to cooperate, which we have always encouraged and acknowledged in a self-critic way, the government's activities were too little to guide a possible discussion. Just what we have today is "far away" from everything we wanted and imagined. There are more than once today than a few exceptions. Since the fact that we should limit work only to exceptional locations, for exceptional reasons, we have extended this to a large number of businesses, trades and virtually stayed on that they should not be open only to hyper- or supermarkets, in short, trades that offer a wide range of products that really enable them to make an appropriate use of family life, and for one reason alone - to influence consumer decision-making and consumer practices of people, which will be very difficult under my law, and to make it impossible for people to go to trade instead of rest, as well as to realize the gentleman's day on Sundays. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue cannot be resolved and that we have made far greater differences and far greater injustices and inequalities in the pursuit of a free economic initiative than we should. I am therefore convinced that it would be much better not to adopt the law today; to force the early agreement of employers and trade unions as well as the government to make appropriate solutions; to ensure that we also stimulate in the trade law that Sunday's work is conditional on the agreement of employees and employers, not just by legal arrangements. And on this road, we would probably solve a lot more problems than we can possibly confirm with the majority will of the law today, but in fact, we are faced with inequality, because we have not adequately solved the problems of employees, because even in those small stores there is a possibility of over-working, a possible violation of daily, weekly and monthly leave is possible, a possible violation of the right to special pay for Sunday work, even more often than in organised companies. These are all the reasons why I think it would be wiser not to support the law today, because, although we will, I fear, such predictions are very, very soon to face a similar or similar question and we will have to solve it again in a way that we will not be satisfied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u178	Mr. Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members of the Government! In my opinion, the objectives of the referendum are to achieve the main objectives of two-thirds of the workers at home, in their families. It has also been achieved that the most urgent work in the store will also be done. As far as the establishment of the referendum will is concerned, this has been formally used now, but I think we are morally obliged to enforce the referendum will, so here is an excuse that, according to the Council of State, the referendum will is no longer binding. I think it is. As far as selling on Sundays is concerned, I have to say, I've always been disturbed, and we've talked a lot about how big traffic is on Sundays. I believe they were really big, but I can't explain why we gave some extra discounts on Sundays, 10%, and that's quite a few weeks left. I don't know if we were trying to lure guests beyond the border, which, at least on the western border, they didn't want to come to us, probably because of the still lower prices. So I think it would make sense to try some kind of discount on Saturdays, and maybe something else will show up. I agree with all those who claim that the best solution would be for the social partners to agree with each other and that we will then take the solution that those who are most directly involved will find out which solution is best. As long as this agreement is reached, I will personally support it, and I am sure that our Group of Members will too. I must also be aware that there is an increasing number of workers, not just in trade, even in other areas on Sundays, that this will also entail other needs in the public sector, if we look at kindergartens or, for example, assistance to older ones and others - jobs that will appear to need to be done on Sundays. It is necessary to be aware of this if trade workers are to be protected. I would ask all of you to support and those two about the RTV programming and control council that we discussed earlier, and also this law once again, especially because, if I understand Mr Potræ correctly, he will also start going to church for this reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u180	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will personally vote in favour of the decision of the home labour body to reconfirm the law and thereby reject the veto of the state council. Personally, I believe that the proposed law respected, to the greatest extent possible, both the will of employers, employees and the referendum will. True, when you seek compromises, everyone is never satisfied. I consider it personal and therefore stand even more in the position to support the proposal of the law, as it was adopted in December. If we watched and read the media last week, what was going on, I don't think it's not the interest of employers or employers or employees, but above all, it's not the government. You have probably noticed what was happening beyond our borders, especially in the West, and how some merchants reacted; that regardless of the validity of the current law, which says that on Sundays all stores were closed, they decided and had open shops, thus violating the law. And if we watched on television, we could also hear her say that the inspectorate should decide or take the measure in question. For this reason, I say once again that I will support the law, and I hold to the word of the Government's representative, who was on the working body, who said that in the event that it will be established through the monitoring of the implementation of this law, which we should all reaffirm together, that possible changes would be necessary, even if necessary, for individual groups or others, and that any necessary changes would be made as soon as possible on the basis of these findings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u182	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have a trade law that has passed all possible democratic solutions. Of course, after the work was done, perhaps the right statement by Minister of Economy, Mr Andrej Visiak, when he said that the law was not exactly the best we could ask ourselves after the work was done and we said the famous saying 'no work was done so well that it could not be even better'. And what happened in December somehow brought unrest to those who were directly and indirectly affected when we adopted the proposed law that, as I said, went in the widest possible context through all democratic processes. Traders, owners of individual trades, asked themselves just before the new year, how to act, how to act immediately after the new year, in order to satisfy them and not break the trade law that is actually in force. So what happened? I myself witnessed these events when some merchants or employees asked me what was actually true. On 23.12., the Council of State passed a veto in the National Assembly of 20.12. I am convinced that it would be much better to focus on the very content of the proposal for a law provided for in Article 1 - and it seems important that all interested parties at least from the National Assembly hear what this substance of this law provides for in this Article. The trader must not determine the operating time of the shops on Sundays and the statutory holidays that are part of the daily work, except for emergency life items which may be opened up to a maximum of 10 weeks per year, and shops with a limited area of sale space of up to 200 square metres per service, in old urban and treks, in natural, cultural and historical and Roma centres, ski centres, marinas, campsites, health resorts, tourist centres, hospitals, cemetery, hotels, airports, border crossings, railway and bus stations which can be opened without restriction. However, perhaps even some debate in the past year or even here in the National Assembly is not sustainable, since the store in many tourist centres, natural, cultural and historical will be open. Such broad options are practically given with the widest possible compromise that the government has drawn up, then forwarded it to the competent labour body for consideration and, last but not least, decided at the meeting of the national assembly. I think that if this is a desire and initiative, of course, this is what is already being said, the law is just like that, today, it will again be supported and, of course, it will be possible for it to change in a relatively short time, if there are such interests, as no law is complete and no individual content or individual articles can change. So I expect the National Assembly to decide again today that the law that we have already approved is in force at the December meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u184	Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u185	Thank you. All I know is that I've had everything I've said about the trade law so far. My colleagues and colleagues, I still claim and insist that the law is a violation of the constitutional right to work from the very beginning, before the referendum. Another time. What kind of law was it that, before it entered into force, he was already murmuring before the Constitutional Court? What kind of marriage did the amendments have before they entered into force? What kind of law did the veto of the State Council experience before it actually came into force? It's usually crumbling, it's nothing, it's a fabrication, it's a bad idea, because otherwise I really don't know what the constitutional court has, what the state council has, what someone else with the amendments has to fix these few poor articles. Third. The law is discriminatory, discriminatory to servers in nursing homes, to servers in hospitals, to hospital nurses, to miners, to workers, to all those whose manufacturing process imposes on them mandatory Saturday, afternoon, night work, and Sunday work. And now to talk about how miserablely the stores are being paid for Sunday's work! You know, not convincing the National Assembly, it is the employer's responsibility and it is his duty to respect the Labour Act, which specifies exactly what amounts of payments are fixed for workers and workers on Sundays, holidays and night work. And if the employer does not respect the law, then there are other relevant authorities acting from inspections to court. We wanted a new economic system and we have it. And it's good to have it. We have a market system and the market dictates work needs, the market is that. People who are employed and working - so are we, respected colleagues, are often disadvantaged, even those who work all week long working abroad, and now tell what people have to do on Sundays in stores, but they can't go during the week! Of course, they can go, but sometimes they like to go on Sundays, or they only have Sundays. And no merchant who has a store open on Sundays, and two customers will come, and they won't have a shop open on Sundays. None. However, those traders, employers and workers who have great traffic and who will also be paid a fair price under the law, will be happy to work. That's right. And now by law restricting the rights and duties of one and the other in this area, of course, is nonsense. And now we see what kind of colloquial we have cooked, not to say - and please remember in a year - what incomprehensible and in great proportions will result in the validity of this law. That's what we're gonna ask the Minister, Mr. Mag. Oh, you little thing. How much we'd love to ask him! However, since the referendum will must be respected, we owe it first because we write such laws, then let us respect it. And regardless of whether the Council of State has proved that the amendments adopted have changed the referendum will, and if the Constitutional Court has also pointed to this, then everyone will act in a way that respects the decision or not. I'm personally against this law, not at all. We'd rather wait half a year and make a decent law that would not be heard by a constitutional court that would not be dealt with by a state council that would have no amendments and that would have experienced so many minutes, hours and bile, phone calls and letters before he came to life. In fact, all of this shows that the law is not good and that it is unnecessary in this form and content. Let's be honest with each other, that's how it is. I will decide on my own conscience, because I have also made this decision within my parliamentary group, where we have had our opinions shared.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u186	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Government Representative, distinguished representative of the Council of State! I would like to explain very briefly why, as well as my colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, I will once again vote in favour of the Act amending the Trade Act, which we adopted in this National Assembly on 20 December last year. Firstly, on 21 April last year, the Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to establish a new square of sales areas or to amend the seventh paragraph of Article 11 of the current Trade Act. Secondly, in September 2005, when the law was already in place with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the initiative came from employers, that is to say traders, and the trade union of this sector, to wait by law for an agreement to be reached. Unfortunately, after a promising start, the arrangements did not produce fruit. This was the turn of the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The government tabled a proposal for a law in the parliamentary procedure on 17 November last year. The law adopted by this National Assembly is a compromise between the two constitutional obligations of the legislator: protecting the public interest expressed in the referendum and protecting the right to free economic initiative. Pulling the right and the right resultant was not an easy task. I am of the opinion that the world will not collapse if, after a certain period of validity of this law - because I am sure that we will confirm it today - we find that life in this area is not running in the right direction and that we will correct the law accordingly. I wish, my fellow Members and colleagues and representatives of the government, that the contents on opening and operating times would come more frequently on the parliamentary bench. The legislative branch of power must also consider very sad and tragic events for the Slovenian people, when young lives are running out for us because someone has not protected human lives in the name of greed for profit. However, while listening to some of the debaters, I must express my resentment and frustration when, in the debates on Sunday's opening time of trade, some of you cannot avoid making fun of the worship, the Sunday worship, and the mockery of the religious sentiments that most Slovenians cultivate. This is vile and this is not a permissible vocabulary and are not admissible content for this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u188	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u189	Your Honor! Since I have very little time left, of course I will focus on the employees in the store. At the same time, it is clear that I will be very pleased to support this law once again, because I am convinced that the government has fully followed the referendum will of citizens and citizens who decided at the referendum that trade will be closed on Sundays. I'm also sure the marriage is good. I am also sure that those who have proposed a veto on the law in question want to prevent or circumvent employees in the trade industry, i.e. traders and traders who receive payments for their work on Sundays and workshops that are not worthy of employment in the Republic of Slovenia, who, together with Sunday work, do not achieve personal incomes or salaries that would reach 90,000 SIT. And these are incomes that you can't live with and not die with. I've got a payment sheet right here, and you can take a look at it. This is the sad truth, ladies and gentlemen, of the past rule of the LDS and of the United List, which, of course, now, you are crying out loud to the media every day about how you have advocated the well-being of all employees in this country. You have indeed succeeded in making this country a country of great ultra-richs on the one hand, if I mention only Mr Jankovic, his sons and anyone else I could count. And on the other hand, most of the great poor who fight every day for naked survival. I also wonder, of course, where Mr Semolič and the other trade unions were when it was necessary to protect the poor traders and traders - they were not, because it was more important for them to organise assemblies where they also spent this small profit of poor workers and workers. Dear colleagues from the State Council, by vetoing the validity of this law, you want to prevent the observance of the referendum will of the Slovenes and Slovenians, which shows that you continue to receive from the past when, due to your exclusive interest in capital, the importance of the decisions of citizens and citizens is foreign and irrelevant and the worker is only a necessary evil for you. I will be very happy to support this bill today, because I am sure that also the employees in the store deserve a week's rest and a little more decent life than they have had before. Here, of course, I mean primarily family life, because traders and traders deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u190	Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to colleagues, fellow Members and respected buyers and salesmen who accompany us! Every single one of us belongs in one of these categories, some even in both. Come on, let's try to move away from the black and white painting we've been getting these days and even in today's debate. Let us go beyond extremes. For we need to know that it is and that man is worthy of solutions in the search for balance, not in extremism. At the referendum, we said, thank God, that Sunday remained a Sunday, that as many individuals and families as possible would be allowed Sunday as a normal holiday day and, despite the marriage exceptions, this would be possible for most of us. Furthermore, the referendum has told us that in our country, there will not be the only criteria for the quality of life to be the highest possible consumption and dictated by the powerful, who sometimes increase their profits quite ruthlessly. On the other hand, on the other hand, we will not be the biblical Pharisees who on Sunday would let a donkey fall into a well die because of their skeleton principles. Things have to be seen with salt, like they said, "con grano jokes." I think our marriage is like this, and that's why I'm voting for the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u192	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! However, something needs to be highlighted in this fact when we have such a discussion. Sunday's work with some law cannot be eradicated for one industry. Then tomorrow, we'll order the troops not to work on Sundays, and the police, and the doctors, and the nurses to a lot of other people. I am sure that the dissatisfaction of traders and traders is expressed in the fact that their salaries are too small and that the labour law, which you have adopted or the previous suit in the previous term, clearly states that the worker can be 40 hours and must be free one week a month. And if the wages were higher than, of course, this law, Mr Pojbič, would not save, the dissatisfaction would be almost the same. However, because wages are what they are, because the social partners did not know how to negotiate with the employer, the dissatisfaction is what it is. However, if we adopt this law, let's pour ourselves some pure wine, Sunday's work will be even less and wages will be even smaller, no larger, they will be smaller, because the allowance for Sunday's work is very large. And not least, when the surplus is created, of course, according to the Slovenian People's Party in one year's time, we will go back to the old one; for there is no harm if we try a little by what is between the referendum decision and what the Constitutional Court has written. And to make it even clearer, we have a scribble, which is not a matter of mice or mice, and what the State Council has actually found, is the naked fact that we have essentially a proposal, which is congested by a referendum decision, and that we also have a law that is not in force. This was also found by the Constitutional Court and this has also been registered with the Minister. Now, if we can sacrifice another 700 million in one year, then we will tell the people what we once told them, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, we are not in a position to make the right and sound judgment and go to the referendum once again to make the right decision. That's what this is about - that we don't know how to judge properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u194	Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u195	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the representatives of the government, the state council, fellow Members and fellow Members! You must have found from my discussion at the time of the adoption of the law that I am a very great advocate, that Sunday is a time of rest, a time of peace. In my family, I have a wife who had to work on Sundays, she wasn't in the shop, she worked in health care, but she had to work and I know on her own, and my children know what Sunday work means. That is why I cannot agree with my colleague Barovic, who talks about Sunday's work in general and across the board. It is necessary to separate what is necessary and what is not necessary. So, I'm not fighting for what needs to be done on Sunday, what needs to be done with life, like in health care, has to be done. But if I can get things on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, there's no reason that I wouldn't have done it then, and that I wouldn't have allowed traders to be free then. So I'm going to say that we don't have a chance to do anything else today; we can only reconfirm or reject the law. I think that the law meets the conditions for reconfirming it, even though the possibility of further improvement would certainly be useful. Because I personally believe that there may be too many exceptions to this marriage. Like I said, I'm a big advocate for Sunday's rest. When I ask my kids what day of the week is their best, it's definitely Sunday, not because the stores are open, but because we don't have to go to school and because we can be a family together, in nature, on a trip or something. And please, let's allow all those for whom it's not necessary that we don't get this to enable them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u196	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u197	The law that we are discussing is the subject of the referendum will of the people, so I think that this subject must be dealt with in a mature and serious and responsible manner and I simply cannot accept the way that some opposition Members, especially the Slovenian National Party, have addressed it. Of course, I would expect that from the momentum they advocate Sunday's work, Members would be here at least Friday afternoon, even more on Saturday and, of course, on Sunday. However, I see only Mr Barovic from your parliamentary group on Friday afternoon, and I have not seen anyone yet on Saturday. In fact, I say this because I find it irresponsible to politicize the law, which is the result of the referendum will. We are obliged to find some sort of life solution and I think the proposed solution is life. If something else has to be fixed in time, we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u198	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u199	It seems to me that today we are discussing sholastics and indeed it is. Instead of looking at the horse’s teeth and counting them, we discuss who prefers, who wants less, who wants to fix something, who doesn’t like the law. In fact, we need to ask ourselves what kind of law we are adopting. He is not pleased with the impetus of the referendum, he is not satisfied with the workers who have launched the referendum initiative and, of course, he has fallen for the finesse of some political parties who have supported it, helped them to collect signatures, were not satisfied with employers who have obvious damage, and, look at the fraction, the government is not pleased because it thinks it is a bad marriage. But we do force it to confirm it today because we are doing the referendum will. No, dear Members and dear Members and, of course, everyone else in the Chamber! We are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision, and it is clear that what was adopted by the National Assembly in the previous constitution was not feasible. The law, which was the result of the referendum will: 80 square feet, was not determined what are essential life items and so on and so forth. And the Constitutional Court said you did it arbitrarily. Of course, an arbitration of 80 square meters, but then we asked voters and voters, I respect the referendum will. But no, look at the fraction, one who's been very, very much talking about it in the past, has decided that 200 square meters would be enough or exactly right, and one jag has a store that is so big. You won't believe it, but they found that even 84% now under this law with 200 square feet of open stores on Sundays. I'm against it. Why 84%? Then be consistent, and the worst of all is the Pharisees, when they refer to something, even manifest that in this assembly we should speak with dignity, because we do not all go to the same church on Sundays. Please, I have the right to do what I want on Sundays, this guarantees me the Constitution and, of course, all citizens and citizens of this country as well. Therefore, the question is, who insists on extreme decisions, as has been said here - those, I say consciously, insisting that such a law must be voted on today. Even after all, why, because we are already January 10th! The arrangement in this country has been valid, it has been in the middle of a week and what has happened - many shops have been closed, many shops have obviously not, but many are not yet right. Why you don't believe the government, why you don't believe the initiators of the referendum, why you don't believe the employees, why you don't believe the employers, why you don't believe in the state council, why you don't believe in the professional public, why you don't believe the economists, and so on, that analysis will be done to harmonise it, to see it and then adopt a new law. But adopting a law on January 11th is just as much as not accepting it. For the legal fact is that two days ago it was a week and that some law had been enforced - what kind of law, how, who liked it. Not to me! I didn't even notice if the stores were open or closed, it's not important to me, because that day just didn't occur to me to go there, but I preferred to go to Maribor to the Golden Fox, where Joseph Jerovšek, because of the bad weather, said he didn't come. But also this is not the point, the point is that, however, if the National Assembly is responsible, to what it is tasked with -- so that it adopts laws that will be friendly to people, which will safeguard their rights, which will allow them, if you want, an entrepreneurial initiative, etc. Between you and me, why we have a social agreement - because now you're going to deny it, as it appears. Apparently, at least on TV yesterday, I heard that it started badly, because of course some people think that it is possible to handle it with their left hands, and even ministers do not take the time, let alone that the government is actually dealing with it. But I think that the greatest value is really a social agreement, and if they call on employers, workers and I don't know who else to wait for and to agree and coordinate, then let them come together with the government, of course, with such a law as at least one of these will be satisfied. True, someone said today that the marriage with which no one is satisfied is the best. But if the built-in has very bad solutions, it can also be harmful, it can also be problematic for many. And the National Assembly, of course, must not do that. That is why I must say that if you ask me whether I respect the will that was respected at the referendum, yes, that is why I voted in favour of the law that you wanted to have at the referendum because the referendum was signed on the basis of law. Because there were 80 square meters there, I voted. The Constitutional Court has demeaned me. The Constitutional Court will obviously deny anything else if it's what we're about to accept, if that's true, what's foretold and what's heard. I'm afraid I can't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u200	Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Davorin Targeton.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I won't support the marriage. This marriage is a milky water, not a drop, is one milky thing. They are not satisfied with it, as we have heard, not with trade unions, which were, after all, one of the initiators along with the workers of the referendum itself. At the time, I realized that, in fact, they wanted to really improve the social situation of sellers or shopkeepers or shopkeepers, so they could raise wages. In the end, it became possible for these same workers to be at risk at work, to have surpluses and so on. The government itself estimates that this marriage is bad, and the unions that helped encourage the referendum estimate that this marriage is bad. Some of you say it's not the best, but you intend to support it. I myself recall Mr Sok's words, I think that at the press conference, after the exceptions to what was not voted in the referendum have been added, so that we will now have a law that will not be close to what was at the referendum and Sunday's rest, nor to the previous liberal regime when it was based on the exception that open trades will be at the cemetery, that if a ceremony is to take place, it is necessary to ensure conditions. I think the living have more need for bread than the dead by candlelight when the need arises on Sunday. But I must say, the living will also come to bread. They'll go looking for him, if not otherwise, at a gas station, only there'll be three times more expensive than he's been in stores now. When you talk about low incomes, please think about it. And when you speak of the Pharisees, what is not a great deal of the Pharisees, to care for shopkeepers on Sundays, but do not worry about similar salesmen who will still have to sell images on holy roads on Sundays, although others can rest and go to mass. Why don't you also worry about these poor people who would have the same right to rest and to participate in a sacred ceremony as you and your families and all those who want it. It seems to me a great deal of the Pharisees by what you do with this law, by what you have done with this law. After all, we do not know what fate will be. There is still a constitutional dispute, there are still new complications, and you say for yourself that time has overtaken you and that the situation since the referendum has changed, so we can really say that you do not know where you are taking them and do not know exactly what awaits them in this area in the future. Therefore, it certainly does not show support for what you intend to support, even though you obviously do not know where this is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u202	Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u203	Thanks again for saying that. Since I have very little time, I would simply say that it was very interesting to listen to the discussion at the previous point on Sunday, what was the central media event: whether the dedication of a new auxiliary Ljubljana bishop, where the government was present, or the transmission of a handball game that was not there. I must say that for the central daily Work was the main media event, in addition to the fact that Kacin warmed the participants in the Christmas celebration, the problem of opening or closing the stores on Sundays, on the first page and on the third page there are three articles, and why the wheels would not be at home on Sunday. It seems that some still wish that all stores were open on Sundays. As in the New Slovenia Group, I will support the amendment of the Trade Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I don't have enough time, and in a bad minute, I can't say anything that weighs, but still. In my opinion, much too much has been said about this law both by the position and by the opposition, both in terms of violation of the referendum will and in terms of major economic damage. I think it was very unnecessary not to say even a barren debate, but nothing or very little was debated about the reasons for such a situation, for such a proposed law, which the opposition says is bad and the coalition is optimal in the given circumstances, with the additions adopted. I myself believe that the original sin stems from a few years ago, during the previous government and the previous coalition. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Given that the Minister of Economy is at home [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u206	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u207	Pledged to monitor the Ministry's monitoring of both positive and negative effects and to propose appropriate additions [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u208	Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman. We're all under pressure of time, and I don't think we can say anything smart anymore. I would only make my own findings, which is why I will not support this marriage. That is, given the fact that I know the story back, I will say that the unions were allowed to "screw" when they were negotiating Sunday's pay. When they almost negotiated, they were put to the referendum and now they have what they have. Now they're telling them they're the rest of socialism and so on. Another time. It seems strange to me that by the new year we had a marriage, as colleagues from DeSUS, A, which was in force and the matter was somehow working. After the new year, we now have a law, as they said, B, which we know is not good, and we need a new law, C, and this C law is already being predicted by the government, and also by all colleagues who are so passionately advocating that it is not good to get a new law - D, or I don't know which, A, B, C. Basically, from last year's ten-day law, we're going to get a new law that is not good, so we're going to change it. But it's not just one story. We'll have a story like that tomorrow. We had a government proposal for a wine law, which the government said would not change, that it was good, that it was changed on the agriculture committee, we have a veto on this law, which will be in Parliament tomorrow, and you will support it, which the government already says will change it because it is not good. I don't fill a situation like this a year ago to have so much confusion and so much as I know what to say, you fools. And this trade story is such that we really can't support such a law, because for example, the appointed director of Mercator is already saying that he will appeal to the constitutional court, but he won't pay the workers more than he expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I give my word to a government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u212	Excuse me, government representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The government proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a law which fully respected the referendum will. The law that we have on the table today is the result of compromises, which still respects and respects the majority will of voters in the referendum as much as possible. The Council of State has adopted a veto on the grounds that this will is not sufficiently respected by extending the exceptions to opening time. From the debate that we have heard here today, it is clear that some parliamentary groups have vetoed support, but not for the reasons stated in the explanatory memorandum by the State Council, but for the very opposite reasons that are even more distant from the will expressed in the referendum, that you actually support even more exceptions than this law contains. I think it is clear from the debate that compromise, although not the best, is the only way out of this situation, so once again we propose that you support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. A representative of the Council of State has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! In the light of what has been said in the debate, a person could explain a lot, even comment a lot, and also give his opinion, but I regret that time does not allow it. You could talk about the surpluses associated with the punching hours that shop workers are doing. I could talk about the objectives of the referendum that we were proposing to the referendum and about the objectives of those who supported us, about what we were saying at the time, what we are saying today. In some ways, however, it would be a return to the past that would not contribute to a solution today and even to the future. That is why I will not go into any judgment of value. However, I cannot go beyond one valuable judgment, which has also been given directly to the applicants, a valuable judgment on trade unions. I must say that I am pleased and proud to be a member of the Trade Workers' Union, which was the proposer of this referendum and received a positive voice at this referendum. We were supported by our members, employees and many voters and voters, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And I must say that I am proud to be a free trade union that has supported us in this regard. I am proud of our President, who is able to bring, when it is necessary, in the fight for the social and other rights of employees, to stand out. Our daily work proves that we are fighting for this, but it is true that we are not always successful, so we are fighting ahead, but within the framework of the constitutional order and legislation that governs this country. What I would like to say to you in the end is that, regardless of the debates, the diversity of opinions, the opinion of the parent working body, we believe that the Council of State has rightly found that the re-confirmation of this amendment of the law means the repeal of the referendum will, so I would like to reiterate to you that you can confirm the veto of the State Council or not confirm the novel because you will respect the will of the voters and voters of the Republic of Slovenia, who are also consumers in the referendum. I listened to the Minister of Economy on the home economic committee, today other representatives, and I believe they will do so. To monitor the implementation of the referendum will. Why any other? On the basis of monitoring, it was said within three months that any necessary changes should be proposed with a different argument than a reference to the referendum. This will no longer have to be referred to. Perhaps they will find out, as one of the discussers said today, that life after a referendum decision does not run in the right direction. Why would a different law be necessary for this finding, but if Law B is already in force? And this has allowed the veto of the State Council, and according to the legislative and legal service of your National Assembly, this opinion also confirms the correctness of the veto. Let me finish. You will follow the democratic standards that are in force in the European Union, of which we are also an integral part, and consolidate the principle and thus contribute to the principle of the rule of law. You will establish a state that will not allow for a re-constitutional review. Last but not least, I personally believe that this will make the most of the negotiations between the social partners. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u216	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u217	For which many of you, I believe, have also taken an honest stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'll write. Seven debaters, and a representative of the Council of State, eight debaters. The debaters have a minute at their disposal. Please, I give you my word, Mr Slavinec, because you raised your hand first. Then please, if he reminds me yet by raising the hands of those seven who raised their hands. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. There was much to be heard, and many of you have referred to the referendum will and our commitment, but I stress that since this referendum has been so long, and also the law in force has been valid for so long that we no longer have any referendum obligation. Of course, this is not a problem in the Sunday part of the shopkeepers, since there are relatively few of them, compared with all the others who have to work on Sundays. So it's not Sunday work. It is also not a problem in low wages, as this law does not solve it. If wages are low that the wages for Sunday’s work are not properly paid, this is resolved by another law. The problem is, on Sundays, instead of people going to church, they went to the store. And that was a problem that some of them wanted to solve by ban through a referendum. Sadly, those who have cooked this soup are now suffering. And this soup is still hot because others heat it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is quite unacceptable that the government is proposing that we adopt an unconstitutional law. In fact, the only solution that is smart is the one proposed by the State Council. Whatever the case, we will have to accept the fact that we are actually here to make legal decisions. And there's something else I'd like to point out. I'd rather be challenged to be unethical and uncultured and so on. Mr Drobnic himself explained that Sunday is the time for mass, in January 2003, whether anyone likes it or not. Look at the magnetograms of that time, and you'll see that hypermarkets really help a smaller collection in the church on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u223	Thank you very much. People go to church and then go to the store and have coffee and go home. This is a ritual, but I am always uncompromising and Mr Kaluza has proposed a good thing. Imagine, sit down, you have until tomorrow, and agree to a compromise. We have Act B in force, which is not good. Comrade Bajc said that they do not respect it anyway, and it is likely that other people will not respect it because they all go to Italy. Let us not support this law, which is now on the table, and that month, but later it will appear that we will also have a new law according to the government's forecast. But then you'll make one more healthy than the one who's not healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u224	Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u225	Thank you. With all the misunderstandings and emotions that have been expressed, I just want to say one thing. Let us not force the laws of men to work, nor let us force the law of men not to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Janc, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because time is very short. It's true, marriage isn't the best. We were looking for a compromise on the board. I think we've somehow found him and the government among most of the board members. This is the solution if the referendum will is still ensured. I think so, Mr. State Council Representative. However, the law will, certainly, be in force, will continue and changes, if necessary, will certainly not be so locked that they cannot be unlocked again and that the government will correct what you will certainly show the time and practice of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u229	However, it is not a matter of being able to do business all week long. If they were all open, we'd be on duty once or twice, probably not more than a month in a row. But that's not the point. It is difficult to understand, however, that those who advocate being traders and traders at home on Sundays to support a 200-square solution, which means 84% of the trades, but if they supported the veto, would be a limit of 80 square meters, which means that more than 50% of the stores would be closed. You've got something on your mind. Either you're rooting for work, but you don't respect will, or you don't respect traders and traders, or it's hard to understand this duality. We have an ideal opportunity to make a good marriage, only good marriages need to be done here and not accept bad ones if we can do good. By rejecting this law, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u230	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u231	We have a chance to do good. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Three things. It's a bad marriage. Everybody's admitting it. And it's a law that's not in conformity with the Constitution, even though the government says it's in conformity with the Constitution. I don't know when the government's been taking over the powers of the Constitutional Court. Some appointed by this coalition say that they will check the constitutionality of this law. Another time. It is about reaping today the results of Mr Drobnic's valuable populism and the representatives of this party, who in the meantime have done a lot of damage, the costs of the referendum and, above all, the confusion. Above all, you are preventing a free economic initiative. I suggest we veto our support and that the government begin to rule, draw up a good law that respects the interests of all, not that we have an A, B, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u234	Time's up, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u235	C, C, and some other barbeque. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Kaluza, on behalf of the State Council. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u237	Thank you. As I said in the previous debate, we could talk a lot about the situation of employees in trade. Believe me, I know him well, and I believe that one of you who meets some of the salespeople. But that's not what this is about. To these shopkeepers, first members and then shopkeepers, we answer daily what is with the trade law, what is with the referendum, what is with the pay system, etc. However, if you confirm the veto of the state council, you will in fact give an answer to the electorate and the electorate. We can't do that. The answer to voters and voters is whether the referendum will be respected or not. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We will continue to give answers to those who work in stores on a daily basis. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-10-SDZ4-Izredna-14.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the 11-45-minute vote. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
