ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Good morning, good afternoon, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Breda Pecan, Jakob Presečnik, mag. Franz Znidaršič, Flower of Zalokar Orazem, mag. Franz Capuder by 12 a.m. and Miran Potch from 7.30 p.m. We're moving to 2. TIME OF DAY - This is a second defensive proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro. In doing so, I remind you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen for the debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present the law in the introduction of the euro. I would like to point out that only those issues which are not yet dealt with in more detail by the legal resources of the European Union are governed by the law. Under Article 249 of the Treaty on European Communities, Council Regulations are binding and directly applicable in all Member States. In view of the case law of the courts of the European Communities, it is not necessary to transpose the regulations into the national law of the Member States, as required by the Directives. This means that each right-holder must be informed of the resources of the European Union governing the euro and the provisions of this Slovenian law. These three Regulations, which I mentioned earlier, are Regulation 1103/97, which is EU monetary law, Regulation 974/98, which sets out three ways of extending the euro area, and Regulation 2866/98, which governs the inter-currency relations between the currencies of those former currencies and the euro. This latter was supplemented by Council Decision No 495 of 11.7.2006, which established the relationship between the Slovenian tolar and the euro. I will quickly present what will be regulated by the law on the introduction of the euro. The Law on the introduction of the euro will thus regulate the period of dual circulation, the exchange of cash, the conversion of accounts and cash balances, the redefinition of non-materialised debt securities, the rules for the uniform way in which to calculate tolar amounts when determining or determining the basis or amount of amounts for individual social security rights, the rules for determining the value of capital at the time of acquisition for tax purposes, then the rules on double indication at the specific rates to be applied in the last two months of this year. It will provide that courts and other state authorities, local communities and other organisations with public powers under official responsibility must calculate the amounts in the proceedings they conduct. This law also provides that the SITIBOR interest rate will be replaced by the EURIBOR interest rate. It is also important to ensure the continuity of the amounts or values set out in the legal acts. The law also lays down more detailed rounding rules. It also contains specific provisions on selling machines and provides for a uniformisation of the euro record in laws and other regulations where the euro is to be used with "u". To conclude, I would like to stress the following. The proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro is only part of the activity of the all-Slovenian euro project and will address only those issues, as I have already said, which are not yet regulated in more detail by the regulations, in short, by the legal resources of the European Union. Of course, the introduction of the euro will require systematic adjustments for all, in the economy, in the economy, in the economy and in all of us, the population. This will in the short term result in costs related to the adaptation of information technology, the transformation of accounting and the production of financial statements and additional education of employees. However, I would like to point out that the micro-economic reasons for integration into the single currency area are based on the assumption that the total savings due to the use of the common currency will be higher than these one-off costs of transition to the common currency. The rounding rules of Council Regulation 1103 of 1997 set out in more detail in the proposal for a law have been summarised and explained since February 2006 in the first update of the plan for the introduction of the euro, to which Members have also been informed at the joint meeting of the three national assembly committees. In the last two months of this year, all public information activities will be the largest. All media, radio, television and newspapers will be used as a communication channel. In December, however, all Slovenian households will receive a new euro publication in which the All-Slovenian population will once again learn about cash changeover techniques and certain details and what to do on suspicion of having received counterfeit money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! At its 21st meeting, on 11.10.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro. A good two months will separate us when we change our EUR tolls in Slovenia, and this law specifies in more detail the ways and procedures and how this thing will happen. The Committee was given an opinion on the legislative and legal service by Articles 2, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 20, 22 and 23. The Committee took into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service in the drafting of its amendments, which were later adopted. No amendments were tabled until the expiry of the deadline. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also attended the meetings. A number of questions were raised at the Committee's meeting, namely the question of recalculation or rounding of amounts, and this has been the subject of many repeated fears that the introduction of the euro itself will also lead to an increase in prices. A lot of activity has been done to prevent a higher price rise, but it is likely that certain things will still be done. Double price labelling has been introduced, as we know. The Statistical Office and the Consumer Union are currently monitoring price developments, with loud media and consumers being informed. We hope that the transition will be calm and that it will not actually lead to a higher price rise. Then there were some questions about the rounding of prices for the sale of goods and services sold in large quantities. Finally, the Committee adopted the amendments and included them in the text of the amended draft law in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure and proposed that this law should also be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Good day to all Members and Members, Mr President, government representatives! With the adoption of this law, the euro becomes our euro. By this law, however, discipline, especially the discipline of the euro area countries, is also becoming our norm. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the adoption of the law on the introduction of the euro. We also support all the provisions that are in this law, because these are the provisions that we decided upon when we joined the EU. It is likely that in the coming years, especially decades within the EU, there will be a major debate on how to ensure that the single euro-European currency becomes and remains the most stable currency. Domestic policies of the euro area Member States will primarily contribute to this. Therefore, we regret in the Liberal Democratic Club that, first of all, today, when we adopt such an important law, there is no Minister of Finance with us. The Minister of Finance may need to explain to us how he and his colleague in the euro area will explain some of the warnings we are getting from Brussels. The main warning given by Slovenia in relation to the euro and the public financial situation in Brussels is that Slovenia is one of the more risky countries among the countries that have re-entered, as well as some existing countries, mainly due to the public financial situation. Of course, I will not talk about what will happen in 2020, but I will talk about what will happen in the coming years. It is not a European country and, above all, it is not a euro area Member State, and this has been tried in Hungary, and the European Union has warned them very quickly, which, when preparing the budget, would have fictitiously counted on certain revenues, are not. That is why, of course, I would like to point out in particular from this city that today, when we adopt the law on the introduction of the euro and when we adopt European standards on 1 January and become our standards, I would expect that the government will be more careful about what it writes in documents, either when it assesses the revenue side or when it decides, of course, what its priorities are. Of course, we also regret that this is the case; by the way, the issue remained in the air that the costs of adapting the Slovenian economy should be, as recorded in the report of the Committee, a billion euros, 239,000 640 million tolars. This is the information that the Ministry of Finance has so written in this law. Of course, I doubt that. If, of course, the data provided by the Ministry indicate that the costs of the state budget and, in particular, the two public finances should be around 700, 800 million, of course, I have little doubt that the costs of others in the economy would be 239 billion, but these are the figures that have been recorded in the Ministry of Finance. At the Ministry of Finance, they even record very strange numbers in budgetary and other documents and, of course, I would suggest that by adopting this law, the government is fully aware of the fulfilment of the agreements within the euro area group. The Stability and Growth Pact provides, as a first step, that the data on which the country's documents are based are credible. In neighbouring Hungary, they have only lied to their electorate for a few years, and of course to the European public, and therefore, with the introduction of the euro, we must expect that what we are doing in the Republic of Slovenia, what we are going to do today in tax legislation, will now be observed much more carefully and that the Minister should prepare himself if he does not want to answer us to respond in the euro area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the law on the introduction of the euro constitutes the final legislative act of the national assembly prior to the introduction of the euro and thus the replacement of the national currency tolar with the new single currency of the euro. Until this historic moment, if I have correctly calculated, we are only 68 days apart if we do not count today. The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the law. We believe that this is not only a formal act, but is governed in particular by our assessment of two sets of issues that are very important or even essential to the successful introduction of the euro. Slovenia has rightly and ambitiously opted for the scenario of the so-called big bang. Given the macroeconomic developments and so far, there should be no greater risk of preparations and the known experience of countries that have already introduced the euro. A successful and smooth transition to a new single currency is extremely sensitive and important for both citizens and citizens, as well as for legal persons, especially for the economy. For this reason, banks will in particular be tested to replace cash and coins, especially ATMs, in payment transactions and to change the situation in the accounts. The very first days of transition will have great practical and psychological significance for people. With all seriousness, it is necessary to take warnings that in addition to citizens, special attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. In view of the experience so far, big companies are certainly well prepared. Of course, all legal persons who deal with citizens and citizens and abroad on a daily basis will be put to the test. In addition to the technical transition to the new common currency, a major test for business operators and the country will have a real impact on prices, what will happen to the transition, with prices. Despite the measures taken, legislation, double price labelling, for example, which has certainly been useful and is, then price control, the so-called 'price watch', the alerting of the statistical office and the activity of the consumer union, should be alert to the conduct of the last critical days. In doing so, the business morality of economic operators will be tested, there is a risk of price rounding up, and there is a danger that has recently been more and more talk - the introduction of only seemingly new products and services, as well as the country's monitoring of prices, in particular those who are interferences, has a responsible task. During this period, the role of the Union of Slovenian Consumers and other consumer organisations will be particularly important. The role of the media, which will detect and alert to abuses and unjustifiably raise prices, will be particularly effective. In addition to the negative effects on consumers and the impact on inflation, greater price increases would damage the credibility of Slovenia in the international space. In addition to possible risks, the introduction of the euro provides an opportunity to further strengthen Slovenia's reputation in the European Union and in the wider international community. The successful introduction of the euro will also enhance people's awareness of the usefulness, belonging to the euro area and to the European Union at large. The EU will certainly be closer to citizens and citizens, especially if the operation succeeds. However, after the introduction of the euro and the entry into the euro area, we face major additional challenges in the area of economic policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. Member Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome, Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that Slovenia, as the first new member, has managed to meet the conditions for taking over the euro. We also support the adoption of the law on the introduction of the euro, because we believe that certain operational issues related to the adoption of the euro will be dealt with more precisely, in particular those that are not dealt with in detail by the European Union's legal resources. The takeover of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia is formally regulated by Regulation No 1103/97. The laws of individual countries do not allow matters governed by the Regulations to be regulated directly. Regulation No 2866/98 regulates the exchange rate between the euro and the currencies of the Member States taking over the euro. This is supplemented in our case by Council Decision 495 of 11 July 2006 establishing a single currency in Slovenia as of 1 January 2007. Since the euro will be introduced as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia by a decision of the Council of the European Union, the law mainly regulates the exchange procedure for the euro, the period of dual circulation and the taking of tolars from circulation. It also contains some other provisions which will provide a legal basis for the current transition from trading in tolars to trading in euro in public administration, justice and the financial market. Special chapters are intended to regulate the situation in accounts and payment transactions, debt securities and interest rates, indices and rates. The law also provides very precisely for the rounding procedure. Banks, savings banks and Post Offices of Slovenia shall not charge the costs to natural and legal persons who will deposit cash in tolars in the period from 1 January to 1 March 2007 on an account held by the customer at the same bank or storage facility. Exchange of tolar banknotes after the exchange rate in euro will be possible in Banka Slovenije at no cost after 1 March 2007. Banka Slovenije will also be able to change coins, but only until 31 December 2016. The law or transition to the euro will undoubtedly also have cost implications for all institutions, businesses and individuals, because they will have to adapt their operations to the euro area. Despite the costs in the New Slovenia Group, we support the adoption of the law because it will enable a more efficient way of moving to a new currency and in a later stage significantly more efficient and cheaper business.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that, when I propose and consider the proposal for a bill on the introduction of the euro, I will not be impressed to start discussing the draft budget for 2008. As just the name of the law that we are dealing with today, it is intended to deal with certain issues relating to the introduction of the euro in our country as well as the 11th EU country. Of course, this area is already largely regulated by the European Directives or the European Regulation which governs us in general, and it is more necessary to regulate it in the field or in the legislation of individual countries. The law under consideration deals in particular with matters which are not specifically regulated or set out for European legislation. This is how the process of replacing the tolar for the euro, the period of dual circulation and the taking of tolars from circulation is regulated. The adoption of the proposed law is the adoption of a new currency and so on, but it is essential or necessary. A large part of the debate was devoted to raising prices due to the transition to a new currency from 1.1.2007. The law under consideration, however, lays down rules on conversion between the old currency and the new currency, for example, when it comes to the determination of securities, amounts on acts, interest rates and the like. However, the law as such cannot prevent any rises or increases in prices in individual areas as a result of the introduction of the euro by 1.1. The fact is that some prices have already adjusted well to the introduction of the euro. Let me mention, for example, the most sold drinks in the morning, coffee, the fact is that most of the innkeepers raised this morning's coffee from a price of 200 tolars to 240 tolars. We probably know the reason, they've rounded it to 1 euro so we don't have to return the cents. Such and similar promotions will certainly be present at the time of arrival at the euro, especially in the case of the number products of the low-cost class due to rounding, but this can be sanctioned by consumers themselves. At the same time, we believe that the competent state institutions will also ensure that consumers are sufficiently informed of all the facts and dangers that need to be known for the smoothest possible transition to the European currency. On this occasion, I would like to reiterate our appreciation for the timely decision to demand, despite the opposition of some to early double price labelling. I think it has also contributed to the absence of a substantial increase in prices by taking over the euro from 1.1.2007. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the bill under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Rezman will present the views of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Let me start by saying that we will all support the proposal for a bill introducing the euro in the DeSUS Group. We show affection, do not take into account that some are still making introductions to this law with "even" and that they are sowing fears on the left and right, what will happen if the battle of the bad in Slovenia is still happening. We trust this proposal. We think he is well prepared at different levels and that is why we will also cast our votes for him. Some have already gotten used to the euro, some will be very soon, only for a little while to do so and there will be no choice. Therefore, it is only necessary to identify and find the right ways for people, individuals, to be as embarrassed as possible, for our institutions will be more accustomed to the news they are following in our judgment. At the substantive level, the law has long been, or the euro has been, so far and we are happy to have a stable economy, we are happy to have a manageable deficit, that we have an appropriate interest rate and everything else that is necessary for such a currency to be introduced. At the formal level, we have adopted a whole series of laws and, among other things, we have differed in our positions, especially in the introduction of double labelling, where we have had a number of, today we can also say the heavy concerns of traders. And today we can probably also say that all this period since the adoption of that law has not contributed much to the subjective acceptance of citizens and citizens of the new currency. If you are going after Slovenia today, you will see that the vast majority of this has not yet accepted that she is willing to accept this, but that it is operational, so in everyday business it is not yet practiced. You could say that such laws are similar to learning to swim on stock, but they actually do when they sink into the water. Otherwise, the life situations that will take place immediately after January 1st are likely to dramatically change our relationship when everyone thinks very seriously about every transaction about why it is actually going. I'm afraid that's not what we're doing today. The technical preparations were probably also appropriate, and we hope that everything will flow in such a way that the availability of cash will be such that it will not be too difficult for the dual circulation to be appropriate for those who recalculate and round up to do so as the law foresees. Of course, there is nothing to suggest that we could be safe. Nevertheless, attention will have to be paid, particularly in order not to have a negative long-term impact. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the long-term consequences will be positive despite the costs that many will have for this reason, but when such a law is passed and when the euro is adopted as our currency, it is not only statistical effects, it is probably also what money cannot measure and what will prove to be the connotation of major other consequences, and, in particular, we expect, in the synergistic effects of the development of our economy. The attention of the people in the future will not be too great, so let us note that they do not throw those booklets that will come to our homes directly into the basket. It is wiser to sit down, look at what it says, and apply to the period ahead of us. The Group of Members therefore looks forward to positive effects over the long term, so it will also support this proposal of the law without delay and concerns.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Ambassador Rudi Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The Slovenian law that changes the introduction of the euro in Slovenia is before us today, the basis for the law are the European Union regulations. The law regulates in detail the period of dual circulation from 1 January to 14 January 2007, when all cash payments can be made in two currencies. However, non-cash traffic will only take place in euro. The cash changeover from 1 January to 1 March 2007 must be carried out free of charge by banks, savings banks and Post Offices of Slovenia at the existing exchange rate of SIT 239.64. However, if anyone wants to replace more than EUR 1500, the tolars, this exchange must be announced a day earlier, otherwise banks will charge exchange costs at their rates for this service. Deposits of cash are unlimited, Banka Slovenije will exchange tolar banknotes permanently and coins until the end of 2016. In case anyone else finds tolars in a pair of socks, they will be able to hold them for memory or replace them in Banka Slovenije. The conversion of accounts balances and cash amounts in bank accounts will be made automatically and free of charge, according to rounding rules. The redundancies of non-materialised securities debtors shall be regulated by the issuer within 15 days of the entry into force of this Act and shall transmit the relevant task to the clearing company. The law also deals with rules for a uniform way of calculating tolar amounts when determining or determining the basis or amount of amounts for individual social security rights. These methods are as prescribed by the laws which have regulated this before the day of the introduction of the euro and are converted into the euro after the exchange rate. Where a tax base is to be established in tax matters after the introduction of the euro with regard to the conversion of the purchase value of a security, it may use the exchange rate of the tolar to the euro or the exchange rate between the tolar and the euro when the business event or purchase of the securities took place. As the calculation of the capital income depends on the choice of the exchange rate and thus the tax base for the calculation of the capital income tax, the average rate of the Bank of Slovenia applicable on the date of the acquisition of the capital shall be applied for this purpose. Special rates will indicate the amounts in both currencies in the last two months, this being the case in December and November 2006. The Courts and other national authorities, local communities and other organisations with public powers will have to calculate, on an official basis, the amounts in the proceedings they conduct. The interest rate will be replaced by the eurobor interest rate. It is also important to ensure the continuity of the amounts or values set out in the legal acts. Sales prices for goods and services shall be converted to at least three decimal places, rounded to two decimal places. In the case of the sale of large quantities, prices are rounded to four places and the cash amount for payment or bookkeeping is rounded to two decimal places. At the price of motor gasoline, gas oil for heating and propulsion are rounded to three decimal places. For technical reasons, companies may mark prices at the nearest zeros, at EUR 5 or at their multiples for the purpose of dealing with selling machines. Nor is it necessary for these machines to temporarily monitor the tolar and euro over a period of two weeks when there will be a double circulation of cash. With regard to the costs themselves, I would say that this is a one-off expenditure, which was already partially established at the time of the transition to a double currency, and I am sure that the synergies will certainly cover all these expenses. In the light of all that is said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 26 October in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Non-Materialised Securities. I would like to inform you that a total of 40 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to brief you on the key changes and additions to the bill before you. The main solutions to the law are as follows. Harmonisation with the provisions of Directive 98/26 EC on the finality of settlement in securities payments and settlement systems and other related issues of clear and transparent regulation. Better transparency and consistency of the rules on issuances, swaps and deletions of shares based on corporate acts of issuers and compliance with the regulation in the new company law. The law also provides a new legal basis for the abolition of Western debt securities and ultimately provides for the establishment of appropriate preliminary provisions concerning the modification of data on intangible securities due to the introduction of the euro. I would like to point out that the bill maintains the fundamental principles of intangible securities already implemented in the existing law. These are: the registration principle and the design effects of the entry, the principle of the publicity effects of the entry, the principle of the order of entries, and the principle of the rightful holder and the protection of the bona fide acquirer. In short, there is something else about why there is even a change to this existing law. The European Central Bank has also assessed, as part of a formal assessment of the clearing-household system in relation to the implementation of Eurosystem operations through national securities settlement systems, the compliance of national legal arrangements with this existing directive. With regard to the definition of enforceability of settlement orders under this Directive, the European Central Bank has warned us, inter alia, that the existing law does not regulate sufficiently clearly the effects of entering into the system and the conditions for determining the irrevocability of settlement orders. In view of this, the European Central Bank has proposed that this ambiguity should be removed by duly supplementing the law, so that the effects of the introduction of securities transfer orders into the system and the conditions for determining the irrevocability of tasks in the rules of the system will be clear and unequivocal. The enforceability of settlement tasks within the meaning of Directive 98/26 also includes the exclusion of the effects of insolvency on a member of the system on the validity of the tasks transmitted by that member to the system. In accordance with the Directive, the enforceability of those tasks which entered the system prior to the commencement of the insolvency proceedings should be ensured in national legislation. The tasks of the member shall also be performed if they entered the system after the commencement of the insolvency proceedings against that member, if the settlement agent did not know or could not have known that the insolvency proceedings against that member had commenced. The Directive also provides that the initiation of insolvency proceedings shall not affect the rights and obligations of the members of the system resulting from or related to membership in the system if these rights or obligations have arisen before the decision has been taken by the competent authority at the start of such proceedings. This also excludes retroactive effects on the validity of the member's rights and obligations in cases where national rules determine the effects of the insolvency proceedings initiated prior to the decision of the competent authority, i.e. the so-called 'zero R' [[?]] the rule by repealing the legal consequences which have arisen for a member on the same day that the procedure is initiated but before the decision is issued. For each aspect of the final settlement, the suitability of non-materialised securities to be covered by ECB standards and the legal clarity and transparency of this arrangement are an important aspect of legal certainty; the following institutions should also be defined more clearly: the eligibility of return from securities and the related issues of the maturity of individual returns and day-by-days, the acquisition of legal autonomy of such entitlement and the content of the rights of the holder of the intangibleised securities. In our legal order, intangible securities are fully regulated by the UNHR. The most important difference between securities issued as legal instruments and non-materialised securities is only a different way of legitimizing the legitimate holder in the exercise of rights incorporated in the securities. This difference is also the reason for an appropriate change in the arrangements in the UNHR, namely the exclusion of the consumption of certain provisions of the GNI only applicable to shares issued as written documents. Secondly, the adjustment of the way certain provisions of the GNI are applied in the situation where shares are issued as intangible paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Please, if you finish!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Finally, I would like to point out that the NHRI is not changing corporate assumptions for the validity of shares, but merely laying down transparent and clear rules that allow more efficient procedures for the issuance, deletion and replacement of shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 21st meeting, on 11.10., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on non-materialised securities. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded with comments to Articles 7, 11, 13, 17, 26, 28, 29 and 33. Most of these comments were adopted by the Committee in the formulation of its amendments and incorporated into the amended draft law. The Committee was also provided with additional working material, a proposal by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to amend Article 29, proposals for amendments to the Committee, and a proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group proposing the deletion of Article 29. Most of the meeting was to discuss whether this Article 29 should be adopted or should be amended or deleted. The Government's arguments are clear that openness to data access, that some way affects potential investors and poses a visible obstacle to the functioning of the securities market, and secondly, the practical process of reshaping ownership is not yet complete. We have many small shareholders and therefore the majority of the members of the Committee felt that for some time the openness to the data would still be maintained, and we have taken this decision to delete Article 29, it is said that the regime remains as it has been so far. The Committee has adopted amendments to individual articles, included them in the draft text of the law and proposed that this law be adopted in accordance with Article 133. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Group of Social Democrats will support the adoption of the bill. The proposal, after our assessment, is not more relevant to the fundamental principles and provisions on securities, but rather ensures compliance with the European Union Directive. Obviously, however, the proposed amendment does not end the story of securities and we will face this matter in the future, as further amendments to the securities directives are also expected. Although there are at least some differences in opinion on opening or closing stock books in professional circles, in particular with a view to protecting small shareholders who are still in a subordinate position or even subject to large-scale manipulation, including a country, we are inclined to address the need for transparency and to introduce only partial closure of stock books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Member Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Although we do not fully agree with the amendments and additions to the law on non-materialised securities in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill because we support most of the amendments and adjustments made by law. It seems important to us that our law is aligned with Directive 98/26, which regulates the finality of settlement in payments and securities settlement systems. Other important reasons why we will support the amendment of the law in New Slovenia are the harmonisation of the company law, the harmonisation of the rules on the issuance, deletion and replacement of shares based on corporate acts of shareholders, the rules on the abolition of intangible debt securities, the regulation of the relevant transitional provisions for the introduction of the euro, the appropriate alignment of the provisions on offences with the offence law. One major change, which we disagree with the coalition partners in the New Slovenia Group, and which was a lot of talk on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, is the harmonisation of the rules on confidentiality of data on holders of securities with the regime on the confidentiality of other investments. Our parliamentary group supported the proposal of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee, namely that the confidentiality of data on corporate shareholders should be regulated in a manner similar to the regulated confidentiality of data for bank deposits and investment in investment vouchers of mutual funds in the Banking Act and in the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. We also supported this proposal in Novi Slovenija because the secrecy of the information on shareholders is similarly regulated in most European countries. Some of the arguments the amendment's proponents have argued regarding the availability of data on shareholders are otherwise supported. It is true that only a small number of Slovenian companies have their shares placed on the organised market of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and therefore only a small part of the shareholders is committed to publishing changes to the shareholders. The main and biggest reason why most of the opposition and positional parties support full openness is concern for small shareholders. We also agree that the data on shares in companies where the concentration of capital is still taking place is an important factor in protecting small shareholders, but small shareholders also have unhindered access to the data of the stock book and the register of securities following a government proposal. In our view, small shareholders will be better protected only when data on shareholders are better protected. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the proposed solutions go primarily to the acquisitors who come in this way to the data for the grey trade, and the media, which in different circumstances would find it slightly more difficult to access information about shareholders, to the political parties who often also use equity for political purposes, the main and greatest reason why we defended the government proposal is that, due to the full openness of our investors, our investors are fleeing abroad, where things are much better arranged and thus feel significantly safer. However, we cannot agree with some of the claims that Slovenia would be even lower in ranking between economically free and legal states on the scale if we introduced access to data on shareholders in the way that the economically most developed countries know. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it could be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The effect is virtually reversed. Despite our concerns about the reasons given in the introduction to our position, we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State joined us. Welcome. However, Member Josip Bajc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the floor to present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, with the new co-workers, you have joined us in addressing this item on the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, the amendment of the law on non-materialised securities refers to more harmonisation, namely the European Directive, the company law, the introduction of the euro law and the confidentiality of securities holders. The law also provides a new legal basis for the annulment of Western debt securities. The original proposal also contained a rule on the non-disclosure of data on holders of securities. While the proposal for a new law retains the fundamental principles relating to securities. I would not like to repeat all the facts that have led to the drafting of the amendment of the law and are precisely justified in the introductory explanation of the proposal for a bill of discussion. In particular, a few would hold on to the issue of the non-disclosure of the data of securities holders. This issue was given the highest priority on the home committee, and the amendment of the Committee, which deleted Article 29 of the bill as drafted by the Government, was also adopted. This amended the current regime and provided that data on holders of intangible securities in relation to all other persons would have the characteristics of confidential, i.e. protected, under the general rule laid down in Article 85, paragraph 1, of the applicable law. The applicant based such a solution on the comparability of financial investments in debt securities with two investment groups, namely investments in bank cash deposits and investments in investment coupons of investment funds. The data on both types of investments are confidential under the applicable legislation. In this regard, in our view, the proposer overlooked some other important facts, particularly the large number of small shareholders created as a result of privatisation, in the way we introduced or carried out in our country. There has been a lot of talk about the problem or adequate protection of small shareholders in recent months. Let me only point out that the adoption of the proposed Article 29 of the Law will certainly not contribute to greater protection of small shareholders, but it is likely to be regulated by other legislation. In addition, there are many differences between the investment groups mentioned above. Regardless of the above, in order to ensure or maintain greater transparency on the securities market, it is necessary for the public to keep data on the number of shares of individual financial persons. Not entirely, I'll say, but we support a solution that has completely opened the stock books. Notwithstanding the above, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the draft law with this comment, as stated, to Article 29 of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much again. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will also support the law on the introduction of the euro, because we believe that the Ministry of Finance or the Government has properly prepared it, and in particular because they were willing to take some concerns into account in the process of adopting this law. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. The applicant wrote about the reasons and the objectives and also spoke today, so that it is not necessary to explain again why this is necessary. Let us just mention that it seems to us that this is because it is a matter of coordination with the directives, the ZGD, the Offences Act and so on, a kind of routine practice that we have to implement occasionally in the National Assembly. That he had also prepared a novelty that had already been mentioned several times today, namely, Article 29. That is also why the applicant had his arguments, and later, due to the political reasons and acceptability of these arguments in our public, he also withdrew from one part of the proposals. However, I believe that this is properly prepared because this is closer to the usual practice of the more developed countries in Europe and elsewhere. It proposed this because of the expected consequences, which would lead to greater confidence among potential investors and would also reduce trading in the grey market in securities. Of course, the question was whether to support it or not. And because it has been estimated that, even if the proposal is adjusted professionally and businessly, we are not prepared for political and other reasons, because of the development of such a culture in us this "anklak" is accepted, but that it should be moved at some other time. This is also confirmed by a fact, namely the fact that we have remained in the positions we have entered into in the coalition contract. In this area, it is stated that we tend to focus in the direction of great openness, on transparency, on the clarity and accessibility of data, on how to transparently regulate all trade in shares or securities, on the urgency of informing the stock exchange of all transactions, on how the Securities Market Agency and the KDD should open and increase transparency over these transactions, and on and on. Because we are now following these principles, once agreed upon, we are pleased in the DeSUS Group of Members that the coalition has drafted a new amendment, which has been adopted, and with this amendment, which does not close the information, we intend to support and, at the same time, express our joy that the LDS Group or party has withdrawn its proposal from the amendment, which has partly closed the information. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Srečko Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on intangibleised securities. The proposer has already set out certain substantive reasons why we are dealing with this law today. It is mainly about regulation or compliance with Directive 98/26, ensuring better transparency and consistency in the securities market and, of course, also compliance with the new company law. However, today, when I present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I would devote the most time to either the article or the regulation or the proposal which has received the greatest consideration on the Committee on Finance. This Article 29, by which the applicant sought to reorganise the confidentiality or non-disclosure of data on the holders of the shares. Of course, we have also listened carefully to some of the legitimate reasons for such arrangements in our Group. One such is the mistrust of investors who do not want to disclose their investments, which could lead to some obstacles to the functioning of the securities market. However, we believe that he has not yet matured the time for such a radical change. It is true that in some Member States, in particular the old Member States of the European Union, the complete or partial confidentiality of data on holders is limited. But we simply cannot compare ourselves directly with them. First time. Our companies in a large minority are quoted on the stock exchange, few of which are listed on the stock exchange. Therefore, aquisitors appear past the beams to offer the owners of these shares to sell them. In addition, we have a different position in Slovenia because we went through a period of transition and privatisation, which brought a large number of these small shareholders. Moreover, we cannot say that our securities market has a distinct and long tradition. We also believe that the verification of data in the clearing company is used not only by potential buyers but also by domestic and foreign investors or business partners who wish to reduce their business risk through this information. At the same time, we believe that all those who have acquired shares in any way in the past in a fair and normal manner have nothing to hide and we do not see a particular reason why this information would be confidential. In particular, due to the protection of small shareholders, which are still large in our country, due to the reduction of the risk of potential investors, because of the situation in which most of the shares are not listed on the stock exchange, we have proposed and also supported the Committee on Finance to delete Article 29 of the law. This means, however, that data on shareholders remain available to the public as has been regulated so far. Otherwise, we fully support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 26 October in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're moving on to 4. At the end of the day, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on income. We have 5 hours and 20 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Income Act is the first of the laws included in the package of tax laws submitted by the Government for adoption in the context of tax reform. The proposed law governs the system of taxation of the income of natural persons with income. The basic objective of the bill is to reduce the tax burden on the active income of natural persons with income, through an increased untaxed share of income and through a reduction in the progressiveness of the taxation of active income. One of the main guides in drafting the bill was simplification of the system. Your Honor! In the context of the coordination of the Second Treatment Income Act proposal, the following major amendments and additions were harmonised and adopted in comparison with the draft First Review Act proposed by the Government. In the section on income from employment, a new criterion has been added to establish a specific tax base for seafarers, which will simplify the application of a specific tax base for seafarers. In addition, the tax base for seafarers is further reduced from 70 % in force to 50% in income. The chapter on income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities provides that payments under agricultural policy measures and other State aid related to basic agricultural and basic forestry activities shall be included in the cadastral income and shall not be taxed directly. The method of imputation will be determined by a new method of determining cadastral income and, pending its entry into force, a transitional provision will be taken into account which provides in a simplified manner for the imputation of such revenue to the existing cadastral income. The solution is a simplification of the system, which is also reflected in the simplification of the procedures for calculating the income adjustment for these incomes. Taxation of olive oil revenue, which is considered to be a basic agricultural activity, is also newly regulated. A new exemption of 30% of the tax base is introduced for beekeeping, taking account of the proportion of non-producer stumps in the beekeeping register. The Section on Capital Profit Taxation lays down an exemption for capital gains to be obtained by deducting the shares held by the creditors in venture capital companies and to be acquired on the basis of investments in those companies in the form of venture capital. That exemption will not enter into force until the European Commission approves the risk capital scheme under State aid. The untaxed amount of interest earned by the resident on cash deposits in banks and savings banks is increased from EUR 500 to EUR 1,000. There have also been some changes and additions in the area of tax relief, namely the reintroduction of a personal allowance for seniors amounting to €1.205 per year. Relief for third and subsequent children has been increased. For children who are unable to work in accordance with social protection regulations, an increased relief will also be granted after 18 years, i.e. at the 2005 and 2006 rates of income. In the case of an advance on income received for student work, it is laid down that an advance on income shall not be paid if the individual income does not exceed EUR 400. The provision relating to the allocation of part of the grant income shall extend the purposes for which the debtor may devote part of his income, including all other purposes carried out within the framework of the activities of residents of Slovenia established under special rules to carry out those activities as non-profit activities and which, by means of a specific law or under a specific law, are recognised as having a specific status or established that their activity is in the public interest or that it is charitable. This includes education and education, promoting integration between people, such as communities of national communities, international relations and the like. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Taking into account these amendments and additions, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. In addition, the Government proposes that, in the event that conditions are met in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the State assembly should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to all of this once again! At its 21st urgent meeting on 12.10.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on income. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded to the Committee and representatives of the proposers or the Government participated. We have received comments from the Legislative and Legal Service on Articles 6, 16, 29, 51, 78, 97, 118 and 131. We have received a number of proposals and opinions from individual stakeholders and even a number not listed, proposals for amendments to the groups of Members or qualified candidates. Most of these comments were intended or directed to reduce the tax burden in some way or to increase the relief in the law itself. We are therefore talking about the taxes that are, of course, everyone's wish to be as low as possible and, on the other hand, it is important to take into account that the state has to function, so to speak, one common compromise must be sought. A number of amendments have been prepared and adopted that actually introduce additional reliefs, additional reductions or improve the situation of taxpayers. However, the fundamental principle of these recent changes or any changes in income has been maintained in recent years. This is to reduce the burden of work itself and thus affect the increasing competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and of course another aspect, which is also important, simplification of the process. As a result, it was put in place and introduced, and the overall relief was increased and all other reliefs were abolished. In the calculations themselves, the greatest difference in some emergencies was brought about by this relief, which was practically introduced last year. We know that we had a 2% total relief for individual purposes before last year, and we added this 4% to the housing level that was also deleted this year. Nevertheless, I must say that the general treatment of the law itself and all the activities that took place before and at the Committee's own meeting have shown that many of the things that Mr Minister has already said on the Committee itself have been adopted or that the situation of taxable persons with these amendments has improved significantly with the amendments adopted. It is likely that further changes will need to ensure that the share of the country's public income is still declining, that other resources are likely to need to be found, and in particular ways will need to be found to reduce direct taxation of the work itself. I'm telling you, these things are still abnormally high, we have 16.1% in the taxation of labour, we have 22.1 employers and employees' contributions, so that's a pretty big amount of 38%. Fortunately, we have abolished the tax on paid wages and this means a step forward. As it is said, the Committee has adopted a number of amendments, which are incorporated into the amended draft law and we propose to the National Assembly that this proposal of the Income Act should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23.10. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. We have three reported discussers. The first one has the word of a Member of the Fairi Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much. My forerunner was very short. I'll support this amendment, too, and I'll explain why. This amendment has no major impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, nor on Slovenian agriculture alone. Nevertheless, I think it makes sense that this amendment has been tabled. This amendment, in order to forgive those who choose to manage simple bookkeeping, has already been enforced in the case of the previous amendment of the law and, despite the fact that we wanted to introduce certain simplifications with this change, this exemption as an exemption from the payment of income is being reinstated. What's this all about? It is the fact that a farmer who decides to start doing business on his farm by keeping a simple bookkeeping business receives certain funds for this. These funds are not someone who knows how big, but they are a measure of the common agricultural policy and, in fact, intended to promote the introduction of accounting management. In spite of this measure, I must conclude that the identification of income through the management of bookkeeping on our farms is actually in bandages. Why are these situations? First of all, the average size of Slovenian farms is very small, about three times smaller than the EU average. The second reason is the poor educational structure of our farmers. Formal education is held there from about 5 to 6% of those who are engaged and are carriers of agricultural production. The third reason is the very high average age of Slovenian farmers, which is over 55 years old, and this is related to everything else, the extensibility of agricultural production and which could be added to this. In the last 15 years, of course, we have been hunting this difference in Slovenia with EU members, and our agriculture is undoubtedly adapting to European standards. And this adjustment is extremely painful in some segments. It's extremely difficult and we're making progress, but I have to say we're making progress. The introduction of accounting, which is, of course, a long-term objective, would make sense for as many farms as possible to be able to manage a simple bookkeeping, since then farmers could actually account for all the income inputs and all the expenditure and thus reduce their tax obligations. At the moment, however, the matter is about such that most of those who decide and deal with agriculture actually want the simplest way of taxing, that is to say, taxation through cadastral income, is flat-rate taxation. That's what this law is about. In fact, I am pleased and happy as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and also on behalf of New Slovenia, I can say that the Ministry and the Minister have listened to these arguments and that the whole matter in the law is resolved in such a way that it will remain the choice of farmers, whether they want to continue to be on the flatbed, pay the country a tax on the cadastral income, which is assessed on a flat-rate basis, or go in the way of managing the bookkeeping, and if they choose to do so, then they will receive certain funds from the country, and then they will be entitled to an income relief. This amendment foresees exactly this, so we support it in New Slovenia. Of course, I can say that this income law, which we have before us, brings many good solutions in the agricultural field. We are very pleased that it is also included as a non-taxable part of the investment subsidy. This is a significant improvement in this law. Otherwise, the other solutions remain more or less the same as we have in this period, which we are already in force in this call by the National Assembly. This is that the taxation of winemakers continues to be regulated as a basic agricultural activity by increasing the cadastral income by a coefficient of 2. The change in olive groves, where the decision has already been taken, by simplifying taxation now in the sense that olive oil growers are regarded as a basic agricultural activity and this is no longer divided into extensive and plantation orchards, but remains the same. The good solution is that for complementary activities the sum to which a person can apply a 70 % deduction of standard costs increases to 10 million, from 6 to 10 million. The solution in this sense that the farm is considered to be one taxpayer is that it will issue one tax return, by converting the income into each employee, into the number of family members on the farm. This solution is very good for Slovenian beekeepers, who is complemented by the previous amendment of the law and with what I have before me today. For the first time, we are solving this issue of taxation in the field of beekeeping, because it has not been done in the past. Let me say that beekeepers can also choose to manage simple bookkeeping and therefore enforce the tax base by keeping books in such an easy way. Otherwise, it is stipulated that 40 bees remain untaxed in order to add to this change of law the spare bees of the family, as said by the minister, the non-economic bees of the bee. That's 30%. That's very good. The recalculation of income, which now follows this amendment of the law, is EUR 14 per capita, is less than that given to us in the previous amendment of the Agricultural Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, let me mention the solution to non-taxation through the cadastral income of all those with less than €200 of KD. This will make the Slovenian tax administration very burdensome, very much burdensome, and for the country it does not mean in fact that, when we compare the costs with the profits, there is no loss. And so, with these small cadastral incomes that have a little weekend somewhere, and there's a vineyard with a few vines, etc., according to this data provided by the ministry, about 450 thousand. So these are all solutions that are supposed to contribute to the preservation of Slovenian agriculture, which is not only an economic category, but mainly a category in terms of population, in terms of the preservation of Slovenian rural areas, in terms of the preservation of Slovenian cultural landscape. Finally, I would just like to say that the government and the government coalition have listened very well to the needs of Slovenian agriculture, and here on these segments they have established what was expected all along. I think that this will contribute to the decision of a number of young people that it is actually a challenge to be a farmer and stay on the farm. Today, we still face the fact that our young people are leaving us, that our agricultural schools are half empty, that most of them are going to high school and it will be possible to influence in some way over this that trend in the Republic of Slovenia will slowly stop. Thank you very much. Once again, I will be happy to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to ask if I can now go to Article 42. Oh. K.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	I'm opening another application circuit. Here you go, please. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think you've already seen at the beginning of the debate how funny it will be to discuss individual articles if we do circles of these applications or this game of fast fingers. I hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will make this change. I applied myself because this is the only way I can replicate or comment on some of the suggestions I have made, or the discussion of my predecessor. This is because this income law really seems to have become a law in particular, which in one way or another will actually ensure that there are some small groups that will be better. Of course, I support the use of different bookkeeping on farms, but I regret that the same good or right attitude towards this area as the government has shown or, as we will continue to discuss, that particularly important groups of those who have the highest wages, that such a good relationship has not been demonstrated by the government to most taxpayers. I would suggest that perhaps, Mr President, but we are somehow trying to have a substantive debate, not only with individual amendments, but because we are in second reading, let us try to hear from the government in particular the effects of individual amendments. I'm announcing that now. I think it will be very important for the following amendments to Articles 42 and 112 to hear a government assessment, which Mr Minister has not presented in the first place. The Minister did not present any arguments as to why some amendments were adopted, but some amendments were not adopted, first in the home working body and then in the national assembly itself. So I hope that we will achieve more substantive debate in this way, not just a quick-finger game, where we will try, as has already been found in previous discussions, to discuss what is not exactly the point of the agenda at all, but we are discussing everything else, from bee stumps to I don't know what else. The content of the Income Act, I apologize, is a major tax redistribution and is worth discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. I believe it is in the interest of all Members to discuss the content of the amendment, article or perhaps chapter; however, if anyone takes advantage of it, I will take his word. You have a replica, Comrade Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I think what Mr. Squeakle pointed out was wrong. So, taking into account the rules of procedure, we are talking, of course, about amendments. Everything we wanted was an opportunity to say in the general debate at the first reading. And if a solution is good, it must also be displayed as good. For all of this, Mr Cvikl, you had the opportunity to apply the possibility in 2004 in this way, because these proposals were already up to date and you did not. And you cannot now challenge this by commending the solution in this law and by showing that it is possible to stop the further deterioration of the Slovenian countryside or to protect Slovenian agriculture. Everything else that you miss here, however, will also be highlighted by fellow Members with more amendments, which are positive solutions in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. We'll open a third round to see if the voting devices work. I'm opening up. Once again, we have two debaters, namely Member Milan Squeakl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	I hope the Lord is listening. Quick fingers again so we can even talk. See, it is not about not supporting the solutions that have been prepared in this law and now with amendments suitable for Slovenian farmers. I think that's very good. We think it is also very good that, with the agricultural reform when we join the European Union, we have ensured what is now guaranteed that the income situation of Slovenian farmers is at the same level as in other Member States of the European Union. We probably won't be different from Mr. Sok in this. What we are asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this and in all other articles is the reasons, either financial nature or reasons, which are substantively proposing and confirming certain solutions. We didn't hear that. That's why I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to a government representative. I expect the government to explain to us, in particular, the financial effects of what has now been adopted on the Committee, when amendments from the coalition have been adopted, which have also included some amendments from the opposition, and that on this basis could then really be substantively debated. Not that we are dealing with some of the details with which Members of Parliament are correcting what the government failed to do when the time was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues and colleagues! I would like to talk about Article 26, which is entitled Income related to agricultural and forestry activities. For this reason, I do not understand my colleague Brickle, when he spoke about everything else, as he spoke about the content of this article, which has 6 points in the basic text and regulates the field of agriculture. For this reason, I believe that the debate of colleague Sok was also justified. With the proposed amendment on behalf of the coalition, we add another 7th point to this article, which says that they are exempt from income costs in relation to the management of books. So much for the intro. For this reason, I will also be able to use the word, two, more to refer to the article, which is called, once again, to the Revenues associated with agricultural and forestry activities and in conjunction with Article 69, which has the title General on income and basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. In this introduction, I must say that I am pleased, on behalf of the Group of Members, that, despite the substantial changes in the area governed by Article 26, this basic point of the law, which was to simplify tax legislation, and that it has also been preserved or what has been said by the Lawmakers, that, if the situation of all is improved, the situation of all is improving if it is possibly weaker and worsened. Here I must also say that in the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's position we have expressed scepticism about the content that was at first reading, and that we have also received some criticism from our colleagues in the debate at first reading, but we have also coordinated this area and Article 26 of the coalition actually, and I think that we will be able to get the support of most Members in this National Assembly. With so amended Article 26 of the Law and the situation of agriculture in tax legislation, I think we have also aligned one segment or one part of the population of this country with the others governed by this legislation. And just like colleague Sok, specifically the amendment to Article 26 and the addition of this seventh indent, we allow farmers, in fact, given that we have said that there are no restrictions now, who will be the flatlist, but who will be the one who will be the leader of the business books, by saying that the costs of keeping the business books on agriculture are also exempt from taxation, we are giving some signal to decide, including those who are dealing with agriculture, that you will keep the business books on farm work and operation. And I am fully joining the debate of my colleague Sok when he listed some of the solutions that are preserved by the amendments already in 2005 and 2006, which we have discussed and adopted in this National Assembly and which have substantially corrected the so-called legislation adopted in 2004, which is expected to enter into force with all content from 1.1.2006. As it is said, the amendment to Article 26, which adds a new indent, will be supported by the Group itself and also by the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. Comrade Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with his coworkers! Colleagues and colleagues! This debate has shown that this income law, and perhaps another one of these seven in the package, is an illustrative nonconsistency when dealing with individual target groups within the society as a whole. Here it has been shown that now that some exemptions or reliefs have been exempted, as we have in particular in the agricultural field in the area of exempt recording costs, we see that, on the other hand, we do not have the same criterion or the same metre for some other target groups. It would be very good if we were to pay attention here to, for example, the unemployed, I am giving the case, but also to the cost of finding a job. This also generates some costs for people, and these are few, according to your records are 100,000, and these also have some costs. Now we have excluded, say, agricultural activities and special status for bees and bees, although they are good, and I think Slovenian employees are good workers, and they could also be given some such and similar relief. But once again, this once again points to nonconsistency and when it comes to some but priori exceptions, then the whole palette is opened. And this is proof that it is the privilege of some target groups throughout society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. I'm reopening the application procedure, please. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	That's very interesting. We can do this all day. It would be easier to raise your hand and just invite us. I have come to my attention because I hope that the Members of the ruling coalition will be equally consistent when we continue to propose some personal reliefs for a much larger group of people and thus try to correct what is the stupidity of this law. The stupidity of this law is that it has been forgotten what really affects economic growth between individual facilitations. And that's the basic one. Therefore, as I have said before, I hope that the government will also come forward and speak from the government's point of view, from the point of view of its objectives - and I assume that the government's goal is at least double, on the one hand stability and on the other hand economic growth - or which amendments support this, that we will at least hear it from the government's representatives here. It is not, however, that we have a proposal, given what has been sent, first in what is already called a preliminary debate, before adopting a government proposal, but then what happened on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when it changes significantly, but, of course, only for certain groups, it significantly changes the income situation according to existing tax legislation. Therefore, I will be happy to listen to the government in the following articles if it wants to or knows how to tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 26 and the amendment mentioned above. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm asking you to sign up. So far, we have four debaters. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	I will support this amendment because it tries to do exactly what has been said - it tries, even though it is proposed by the opposition, to put everything in an equal position, it is said, all who work abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! This amendment is also supported by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and some companies from the environment, from which I come, like the Collector Group from Idrija, and probably by the Hidria Corporation from Lower Idrija, Eta from Cerkljanska and so on. All these companies have quite a few highly qualified professionals in their companies abroad. The current method of calculating income under the Income Act also covers the tax base of foreign employees in categories which, by content, are not income but are cost-recovery and taxed by income. As an exception to this, public servants and civil servants are already subject to the law governing wage relations in the public sector. Where they are assigned to work abroad, only those incomes or portions of the income from the employment relationship which correspond to the income from the employment relationship which they would receive for the same work in Slovenia shall be considered as a tax base in accordance with Article 42 of the Income Act. However, the second paragraph of this Article provides for a different treatment of the tax base also for taxable persons who are employed on a merchant ship of long voyages and who sail on the high seas if, due to such employment, they are absent from Slovenia for at least 6 months in a tax year. Thus, some categories of debtors are recognised by law as special status or higher living costs abroad, while others are not. Those who work or work in an economic society abroad are, in this case, in the same way, in an obviously worse situation. In doing so, we take into account the fact that the Slovenian income scale is one of the most stringent scales of this kind. Such a situation is either the reason why our experts do not want to work abroad. This reduces labour mobility and the flexibility of international companies, and the closure of the economy leads to non-competitiveness, either looking for opportunities to change residence, thus reducing inflows to the budget as well as brain drain. I am sure that these problems will only lead to higher gross wages to a lesser extent, as this would greatly increase the costs of the employer. This amendment also draws attention to the equal treatment of foreigners sent to work in Slovenia. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, there are about a thousand employees in the economy with the status of posted workers. I would point out that it is mostly highly educated experts and it would be right to compare them with public officials and law enforcement officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Many of the fundamental reasons for this amendment have been clarified by our Group of Members. I would like to stress in particular that he probably has, or I am sure, our country's interest in setting up its companies abroad. That it has an interest that our citizens and citizens in these companies are employed, that it has an interest to provide them with adequate conditions. I do not understand that the Government does not recognise the rights that, under similar conditions, it recognises to civil servants or representatives of diplomatic and consular workers, especially for employees in our companies abroad, our companies. I am sure that in this part it is also a matter of unequal treatment in a similar situation and I would really ask the government representatives to explain what are the reasons for excluding our foreign employees, who certainly have the same disproportionate costs in the same places due to higher prices, especially certain services abroad as others sent there. I would, however, allow myself, and I hope that this does not violate the principles of proper work, so that at the first opportunity when I can speak on behalf of the amendment we have tabled, I will ask the Minister for one more thing. He was correct in his introduction, and he told us what changes and additions the ruling coalition was mainly, although I am pleased that there are also two proposals between us, the Social Democrats, in the proposal for amendments and additions, but I am missing something which is very important for each law and especially for the law on income. Mr. Minister, what are the financial effects of these new decisions? I ask for each of them, if it is not possible for everyone already, but at least for every decision that is more important to say these financial effects, that you also say them collectively, because we know all those who are discussing this, that it is the income law that is, or will result in, a failure, not a deficit, but a smaller source of income in the state budget, which will have to be covered in different ways. It would be good if, from the amount we had at the first reading of the proposed law, we now learned what material differences were made in the light of the decisions taken by the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. A government representative, Minister, Secretary of State, also took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In connection with the amendment concerning workers, employees employed abroad would like to express the following position. First. In Slovenia, the concept of taxation of the income of individuals on the basis of global income is adopted. This means that all income received by an individual anywhere in any country is included in the tax base of the resident. It is said that the resident is one who has permanent residence or lives in Slovenia for more than 183 days or has life or economic interests in Slovenia. From this point of view, of course, means the proposal, the derogation from this principle and in fact means that on the one hand we would have two statuses of resident, one who actually works in Slovenia, and, on the other hand, a resident who is employed in another country. From this point of view, this person, this employee working in another country, would be taxed on a lower tax basis, in short, on the basis of that tax base which is considered comparable work in Slovenia, which is, of course, very difficult to calculate or calculate, but this is a significant tax minimisation. The second thing I would like to say about that amendment is that such a solution actually allows an unlimited number of people who would actually be employed in companies established abroad, for example in neighbouring countries, and would therefore have a more favourable tax situation. In turn, the financial impact is, of course, very difficult to predict, how much this would actually amount to, because in fact, a person who would be employed in another country would actually have a different tax base. The residence is regulated or the taxation of persons employed abroad is regulated in two ways, the first being the issue of residence. If someone is no longer a resident, if he does not meet these conditions and is employed in another country, then of course he asks that he is no longer a resident in Slovenia. He does not meet the conditions here, so he will be taxed under another legislation. Secondly, taxpayers have the opportunity to resolve this issue in the context of more than 40 double taxation conventions or agreements, and from this point of view this actually means one-off taxation, which means taxation only in Slovenia. From this point of view, such a solution is not appropriate or acceptable to the government. Besides, I'd like to say the following. Why are public servants or diplomats mentioned in this article and considered a solution to take them into account the tax base for similar works performed in Slovenia? Because they can't become residents of another country. Because under the conventions, diplomats cannot become residents in another country under the Vienna Convention. These persons, public servants, are always residents of Slovenia. From this point of view, of course, this type of solution, or comparison, does not seem appropriate in some way, or the argument we are talking about is that these persons are in a different position. In fact, this solution would mean an open field for those wishing to be taxed more simply to be employed in companies. This is one of the options which, of course, can also mean an unequal situation and, of course, the possibility that such debtors do not look at the origins of the global income goes beyond this principle in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have already said that, according to the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, this is not an unlimited number of people, as you are afraid that this change will now lead to people starting to work in numbers abroad. You have already calculated in advance in your arguments the abuse of this new article if it were adopted. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, there are about 1,000 highly qualified experts from our companies working abroad. It is said that this is not a mass-restricted number of people, and I think there are also mechanisms to control this so that abuse does not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	I thought things were much simpler than they were said. The government understands about this kind of legislation. We have and have introduced global income, but some will be excluded from this law, but not because of residence. It's a simple matter. The point is that Mr Rupel, in the negotiations for the budget, the rebalance 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, could not have received from your neighbour on the left, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Minister, an appropriate increase in the money in order to make them pay properly. That's all this is about. It is 8 billion tolls of extra money to make these salaries higher, so that people abroad who earn adequate higher income will pay these incomes according to the corresponding scale. That's what this is about. It's a very banal matter. If you have introduced global income and, of course, it is possible to discuss whether world income is properly introduced or not, some countries do not have it, others do. If you've introduced the world's income, then it's for everyone. Not that public officials cannot be involved in this, but then the coalition added to it for, I don't know, what other reason, of course, for shipowners or sailors. Tell me: What is the difference between the representative of Krka in Moscow and the ambassador of Slovenia in Moscow? Who does more to promote Slovenia? Representatives and sales network of Krka or ambassador? If it is a policy of equal treatment for all, then you must decide whether in the budget you will provide money for these people who work abroad to have adequate wages, and this results in a lot of problems. By the way, diplomats don't know that yet. As a result, when they retire, they suddenly find that they had a very low pension base. Or if they get sick and come to a so - called home hospital, it suddenly turns out to be extremely small money. That is why Minister Rupel should talk to Minister Bajuk and secure this money in the budget, like the state, the National Assembly pays us, for example, gross wages. No, no, no. You have decided that those who are abroad will simply be treated on a net basis, thus opening up the possibility for shipowners as well, and it is perfectly logical and legitimate to expect an economic chamber, and we support that the situation of those who are also fighting for a particular society abroad is the same as that of their posted representative. That's all this is about. That's all this is about, and I need an answer, not the question of residence. The residence has no connection, the residence would only be the way you're exempt from the world's income because you're somewhere else's resident. That's not what this is about. Of course they are diplomats residents of Slovenia, as the embassy is so-called the land of Slovenia in a foreign country. It is therefore right that they are taxed here on the world income of income, but that is why they need to be provided with some money in the state budget. But what will happen when, for example, we have the provinces and the representatives of the provinces will sit on the Committee of the Regions in Brussels? Then what are you going to do? Or, for example, I don't know, God forbid we do Euro regions with Illy, there'll be a representative, I don't know, sitting in Trieste. What are you going to do then, change the law on income? By proposing, Members and Members, that you accept the amendment or that we delete paragraph 42. Only two are possible. However, it is not possible to have two criteria for people who are doing exactly the same job abroad and who are trying to apply Slovenia as much as possible, either economically or politically. And I propose that we be more supportive of those who promote Slovenia in the economic field because the impact is greater; Krka has a much greater impact in Russia than such or other ambassadors. That is why I do not understand these discussions. Above all, the government has not responded to what has already been said in the introduction - why adopt the second paragraph of Article 42, why not the amendment to the first, says the shipowners. But don't get me wrong, I support that ships are eliminated, absolutely, if you have already done so with public servants and officials who are sent abroad. But you can't say that because of, I don't know, what reason you can't do this for representatives of the economy, because they're also sent abroad by some system. And even talking about the fact that the representatives of the economy will be the biggest tax evasionrs, please, this is barefoot! That our exporters will be the biggest tax evasionrs, and that is why you will not accept the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce. I support the amendment and expect more substantive answers, not some deception in front of the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like once again to invite the Minister to remind him that he has not answered my question. And I promise that whenever I answer, I will keep this in mind until there is a satisfactory answer, because that is the essence of our debate. If we don't figure out the financial implications of the new solutions, it's very difficult to make decisions, and I expect that. As for the specific amendment, Mr State Secretary, there really was no substantive argument. To talk about how that's not possible because you don't know the effects. In this area, the effects are made much clearer and more concretely calculated than many others that have not yet been explained to us. To limit the cycle, but for people who work in the same place about the same work and should have equal pay conditions and other conditions, it is extremely difficult to say that conditions and opportunities should be different. Where would I be taxed? Yes, of course, he remains and we probably have an interest that remains a resident of Slovenia and that he will have a basic tax here. As you have explained, it could even be understood that diplomats must be residents, and those diplomats do not need to be residents. So let's give them our tax legislation as much as possible to stimulate them to check out our permanent residence, maybe even fictitiously separate themselves from their wife and say they live, I don't know, in any other European country because of this, or just because they won't pay our taxes. This is the wrong direction. You probably don't want to do this and talk about whether they're going to pay us; yes, they're going to pay, the question is only on what basis and on what criteria they're going to pay; and we're just proposing that these conditions be even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members! First of all, I didn't mean to tell you that there would be some future fugitives. I just wanted to say that this creates a certain possibility for some to be able to work under better conditions abroad. This is because today we can freely establish businesses wherever we want, and especially in our immediate surroundings, it would in some way be a tax advantage. Last but not least, it means a taxpayer's institute or resident's institute that someone is actually obliged to pay taxes under certain conditions and therefore there are certain criteria in the law. However, a taxable person may choose or fulfil these conditions or fail to fulfil the conditions. And of course, if someone works abroad for more than half a year and meets other conditions, then they do not meet these conditions. These conditions are actually written in the law. In order to make minor substantive differences between taxation at home or taxation of those who are employed in Slovenia and those who are employed abroad, the law actually contributes or the bill's proposal contributes with less progressiveity and also by eliminating the tax on paid wages. These are measures that are likely to be discussed here are general measures, but the government does not support separating residents from those who are taxed on one tax basis in Slovenia and on another tax basis, this is true for those who work abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you. I'm asking you to continue reporting. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	I'm sorry, but the tax on paid wages has nothing to do with this. For an ambassador living in Moscow, the tax on paid wages, when he was or when he was not, is not known even in the calculation of gross personal income. So the tax on paid wages really has nothing to do with it. It would be wise, Mr Secretary of State, and above all, Mr Minister, to discuss the abolition of the tax on salaries paid today. That's me. It's just about shutting it down, and there's no such nonsense about the income we have. Where you change and give a big tax gift and then you legislate something that is inequality. Let me explain how a public official or public servant in Moscow is more equal than a representative of Krka. And the fact that, of course, you say, as you said, whether or not there will be taxes in general, companies can be set up. Yeah, a lot of people in this room, I'd say, have a lot of experience in setting up businesses abroad. But that's not what this is about. If it's written explicitly to them "and other residents sent to work abroad." And that's not even the intention of proposing. The Chamber of Commerce simply says if the representative of Krka is from the parent company Krka d.d. in Novi Grad, posted as representative of Krka in Poland and so on, to be in equal position as ambassador. But, I don't know, economic attachés, by the way, because the economic attaché is actually dependent on this representative of the Krka. We don't need an economic attaché in Moscow, but we don't need one in Moscow if we don't have Slovenian companies. Therefore, we propose nothing but equalizing the income, property, tax status of these people in the law. And, of course, I expect Members of the ruling coalition to support this, just as you supported the shipowners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you. Member Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I would add an additional argument for the adoption of this amendment. In its opinion, the Council of State also proposes an equalisation of the situation of workers abroad. I think it would be reasonable and responsible, especially for the government and, of course, for the national assembly, for those who will or will decide on final solutions, that we have as few employees abroad as possible in an unequal situation and under different systems. In doing so, I would add or mention another group that is very numerous, over 10,000 or about 15,000. These are residents who work in particular in neighbouring countries, particularly in Austria. I know this article doesn't solve this problem. From the Minister forwards and the Secretary of State and others as well as Members, we have faced a group or representatives of these employees in Austria and in neighbouring Italy, and it is true that some articles have partially solved or mitigated this problem that these workers have warned about. In particular, I think that this is Article 45, which states that the cost of eating abroad and the cost of transporting to and from work, but it is in the last days when we deal with this law that we receive further warnings by e-mail, in other forms, directly by telephone, in personal contacts from these workers that the solutions that are not sufficient and that the problem remains open. In doing so, I would like to remind you of the adoption of the amendment proposed by our Group of Members, namely that the entry threshold at the lowest level would be raised in order to actually ease the problem among these employees. As this amendment has not been adopted, the problem will remain. The fact is, in addition to these costs, which are now taken into account, that these workers have other additional costs that make their situation difficult, and will also force many of them to either move out and move into an apartment in neighbouring Austria or leave work there and come home and can also remain unemployed and thus remain at the cost or partly at the cost of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. How do you do? How do you do? As far as I can see, this 42nd article does not differ significantly from what has already been done. I would like to say that, in your explanation for the amendment's proposal, you have stated: "We take into account the fact that the Slovenian income scale is one of the sharpest such scales", I think there has been a deliberate progression here, but we should now talk about the past time. I myself believe that, given the solutions to progression, more favourable progression also partially solves this problem. I was convinced by the Secretary of State that this solution, which is given by the government, is good, but I would like to say this because of a more appropriate scale. Certainly this solution is not worse than it has been so far, and to a great extent it will help you to do so, if we speak now, as it has been repeatedly exposed, about economists, experts and so on, who work outside or are residents - that this is one of the benefits just as far as reducing progressiveity is concerned for them. I see that this is also a contribution to stimulating these people, certainly, by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendment proposed in the Social Democrats Group is a typical example of ensuring equality of citizens guaranteed through the Constitution and must also be ensured through laws and regulations. In this case, I understand the State or representatives of the proposed law that they have been in an unappreciative position for one simple reason, because in this case the State is acting in two roles, once as an employer and twice as a dacar. And here's all the catch and you've overrun your own basic source of this tax legislation that's in trouble with the economy. With this article, I will not talk about the great consequences, but you are burdening yourself with this exception, and you are burdening the economy. Or, in other words, as the Secretary of State has repeatedly said, they will sit within the social council of employers and employees and agree on salaries, allowances and so on. So you are saying that disadvantaged workers from a foreign economy will not be disadvantaged workers or employees sent there by the state. In other words, I believe that everyone, one and the other, works in the interest of the Slovenian state and the Slovenian economy. And let us give everyone the constitutional right of equal standing also through this law. Once again, I know that the country or proposer is in trouble, so I do not accept and is neoportunistic every argument that has been made on this side today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. The Prime Minister and ministers justified almost all the reform measures taken by this government by decommissioning the economy and, consequently, by increasing its competitiveness. And it is precisely this amendment, the amendment of the Social Democrats to the 42nd Article of the Income Act, that goes in this direction. Work and stay abroad is linked to additional costs. Life is certainly more expensive abroad, especially with the cost of renting employees and all of this needs to be recovered and paid from their salaries. The cost of working for Slovenian workers working abroad is inadequately higher than the cost of domestic workers in these countries, as well as the cost of employees in Slovenia itself. And this amendment of the Social Democrats is also written in the light of Article 14, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that all citizens and citizens are equal before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? One more application, so I'm reopening the procedure. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. Nice greetings to the Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. We seem to have forgotten that the Republic of Slovenia became a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004, the mobility of the labour force is in fact everyday. And I don't see any other principles, any other basis than that the Income Law is actually based on the principle of global income and that the debtors are residents. These are key things to me. Once again, Slovenia is a member of the European Union and for these reasons I cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm asking you to sign up. This concludes the debate. However, I am putting to the debate article 112 and the amendment of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate, please apply. We've got four applications. Member Milan Petek has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Dear Vice President! Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. The LDS has tabled an amendment, and those who have considered the law amending the income before or at the previous meeting know that, in fact, it has established the law tabled at that time. In fact, the purpose of this amendment is to try to prove to the ruling coalition that it is necessary in Slovenia to provide a social and just solution to the housing problem, which makes it easier for us to see that one important category that the coalition somehow overlooks in this thinking. We all know that in 2005 a relief was introduced to reduce the annual banking base. This relief was in some way criminal because it was progressive and, in fact, to those who had higher personal incomes, it was a higher tax savings. With this amendment, we try to correct or make this anomaly sustainable and equal for all. In our proposal, therefore, we propose to introduce a so-called tax credit, which does not reduce the annual tax base, but rather reduce the actual amount of tax paid by the taxpayer, which means that this reduction, or this tax, is reflected directly in the reduction or increase of the tax. Thus, the amount of income would have been reduced by 200 euros, irrespective of the amount of the tax base, or would have increased that amount by 80 euros per year for each dependent family member and for the next dependent family member by 100 euros per year. So it seems to us that there would be one option, one way in which the coalition would also show understanding for that group of taxpayers who have decided to solve their own housing problem, either by buying apartments or by renting them or by investing in a housing fund. In this way, we allow them to receive part of this contribution, or this effort, which they themselves are making, is returned in the form of such a tax credit, with which we do not, in fact, significantly affect the budget. The effects of these incentives or such a tax credit are not such as to distort the budget. That's why we think it would be worth it. It is particularly important for us to create the opportunity to benefit from the tax credit, including those who are employed for a certain period of time. We all know that this is primarily a young population, that it does not conclude an indefinite contract, to conclude contracts for a certain period of time. When contracts of employment for a specified period of the decision are prevented, they are literally prevented from borrowing credits because they receive loans for the period when they are employed. This gives them the opportunity to opt for a financial lease, that is, to pay off or own this apartment for so long as it has leased until it pays off the last meal. In fact, however, these people would be given the opportunity to take the risk of these jobs in a way that allows them to be taxed financially. The problem of this legislation that the government is proposing - and such if it is not changed - is that there will in fact be 103 000 taxpayers in Slovenia affected now, that the government will rule itself or, if you want, Mr Janša, that somehow he does not speak the true truth, so that it will not occur, or that he says that there will be lower taxes for all. In this case, this does not apply. So these 103,000, not all of them, some of them will, of course, pay higher taxes or lose this opportunity or the benefit they have had so far. This will affect the payment of taxes and does not support this claim made by Prime Minister Janša in 3.10. So, if I conclude my explanation of this amendment slowly, we believe that the government - even in the coalition agreement - would commit itself to promoting investment in the housing fund - will relieve this population of interest on housing investments. Something was done in the housing scheme, but there is no big effect. So, in some ways, the coalition treaty is being indirectly violated, and we are also offering this opportunity to the government to resolve this matter in the way we proposed in the amendment in Article 120. I believe that in the coalition you are aware of the importance of such relief that would be accepted in this case. We know you've decided to make it as easy as possible, but this relief doesn't break the system. This relief, which is not facilitating, but is a tax credit, is, in fact, an exception, which is themselves willing to invest in the resolution of the housing fund, allows them to receive some kind of compensation, some kind of tax relief or a reduction of the obligation on a monthly basis. I would also like to point out that our analysis shows that the most affected group of taxpayers in the first income class, i.e. 16% tax rate, and that group in the fourth grade, with 41%. That's what the calculations show. Those who are now applying 4% relief have, you know, received a return of 17,304 tolls. If they had a solved housing problem, they applied 2%, they got 5,768 tolars. Now this option is lost, so it's not a return on income. It is indeed better because of the higher net salary of 12,300 on gross personal income of 257,000 tolars, this is the first tax group. However, the loss of the possibility of a return on income of 17,304 tolars, which means that such a taxpayer is at a lower rate of 5,004 tolars. This is a claim that denies and puts on a lie, little is a harsh word possible, but denies the Prime Minister in his claim that all taxpayers have the effect of new tax legislation to save them or to reduce their tax burdens. Once again, the Members of the National Coalition Council have been urged to consider any support for this amendment. You are not in breach of any difficult agreement by me, so you do not have a significant impact on the budget. You provide or enable those who have made their own decisions to invest in the housing fund, especially those who have dependent family members - and for these you have once sworn to give them a certain advantage over those who, in my opinion, have also encouraged fertility, to promote some reliability of young families - so this would actually make it possible. That's why we're calling for this amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	I only have one question for the Minister. Why is that group of taxpayers in the highest income class more important to him? Why did he, as part of a coalition that was about a year and a half ago, if I recall correctly, make Mr President's remarks that the first goal is to increase the birth rate in Slovenia; why does this coalition reject housing relief? 104,000 taxpayers, 104,000 who took advantage of this in 2005, after first giving 2% interest in income legislation, and then 4% were, of course, counting on this to apply. Therefore, in 2005 and 2006, Slovenian taxpayers in Slovenian banks on average each year owed more than 80 to 90 billion tolars. The high economic growth Mr Janša spoke about yesterday has nothing to do with what he is doing. It only has this connection that people solve their housing problems with the help of a country introduced by income legislation. You're shutting this down now. We're proposing an amendment to bring this back. And please, if Mr Minister explains to us whether he is still part of a coalition that supports fertility and does not understand what is at the heart of economic growth. He once lived in North America and there is the first indicator of economic growth of the number of newly started houses associated with the existing tax relief that exists there. And it was this relief that was passed on, that we made it easier to solve the housing problems. I believe that it is difficult to grant a group of 10,000 to maintain a housing allowance of 104,000. But we have to decide what's more important to us. Whether it is more important to us that the case mentioned yesterday, which is a living example of a single bullet or a single Janez, is exactly the same - you gave her 3 euros, you take 30 euros. And we're just proposing, we're returning housing relief so that economic growth can be maintained, so that no one else, not just the 10,000 who got 30 billion, can ask for it on the housing market, and so that people can come to their own money, not forever in rental suits or at home with their mothers and fathers. This is the foundation of economic growth everywhere in the world. And if the Minister of Finance doesn't understand that, then neither the Secretary of State nor the Presidents of the Government can help here. That's why I don't understand why you did it. Why do you deal with 10,000 people, instead of 104,000 people or all others, which we will discuss further, which you will tax further for VAT. Don't do this! Don't do this! And we need to discuss this and this is the content of this amendment, which we are proposing, this is the amendment of our parliamentary group and, of course, we will also support the 112th article of the amendment of the Social Democrats Group, where we, of course, assess the need to keep pensioners on an equal footing. That is why I expect the Minister to explain to us whether he is still a member of the coalition that supports fertility, or whether it was just a delusion, as it is called - the fashion fly of that week. It was necessary to have a press conference where it was said that the government's first objective was to increase fertility. This measure is in total contradiction, in complete contrast with this. Not to say that it creates a great deal of equality, but above all I do not know what will happen in the financial sector, I do not know what will happen in the economic sector; you can imagine that the reduction of the financial capacity of 100,000 to solve housing problems will have an important impact. I propose that you support our amendment, the form is correct and that we ensure further economic growth, and in particular that the people who have committed themselves to the law adopted in this national assembly can, of course, continue to pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much. There is no minister, but I really hope that we will get information on financial effects, and the question of financial effects is also referred to our amendment to Article 112. We would really like extremely exact, accurate data on where and when it will break or not become a worse situation for pensioners with new solutions, with which the "turnover" changes from 14.5 to 13.5% according to the existing law. If there's a break, then we want to know that we can control it, and then I want an explanation why. Why now the source remains important that someone whose source is the pension needs to change the visa of someone else whose source is paid or income from entrepreneurship and so on. Where are the excusable reasons for this? I don't see them. And if the government can ensure that this does not change, because it is precisely caught in changing new income classes and rates, then this can be accepted. But if anyone comes into a different situation, it was either a reckless calculation or a conscious definition that someone whose source is a pension should be taxed differently than someone else whose source is paying - but in fact, they are now receiving the same amounts in real and net terms. The other is housing and investment in apartments. In the second reading, we had substantively similar amendments for our mother's working body, which we submitted at the time of Article 115, when they were 15.a, because we considered that this would not be formally possible, we did not re table them, and I am absolutely and fully in favour of the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy. More. We would really like to find out which and why the government has opted for such a different position of individual groups of insurers who have received a special position, a more favourable position, and a normal situation, but only more favourable, why some groups have not been able to obtain it. I think that a group of those who are looking for an apartment and who, if they want to form a family, are obliged to provide an apartment, the one most deprived of the visas of all others, we have found something for all others, or for most others we have found something; it is a group that represents 100,000 potential taxpayers and taxpayers for whom we have not found it. It is difficult to talk about real family politics, and it is also difficult to talk about additional incentives for a third child. Because, among other things, if you can have a third child, you have to have the first two, because otherwise you have a hard third. And when you decide for the first two, you have to have different conditions, and these other conditions besides the employment and relative stability of your life perspective, if you want to be responsible for your children, surely the regulation of the housing issue is also. That is why, gentlemen and gentlemen, and above all the government, I do not understand the misunderstanding and the unwillingness to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you. I ask the government representative, will he answer the question raised in the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and honourable Members. I will respond to two amendments or the first amendment refers to a reduction in the relief for pensioners from 14.5% to 13.5%, or an increase from 13.5% to 14.5%, if reversed. Why did the government actually propose to reduce the relief from 14.5% to 13.5%? For a simple reason, because the scale is changing, and because the scale is actually changing, it is also necessary to adjust this relief to the new scale, and from this point of view none of the pensioners will be in a worse position due to this reduction. Also, these figures between the highest pension, the average salary, the short-term between salaries and pensions, show that pensioners, because of this adjustment, which is also an adjustment in the context of the overall relief, which is increasing, are purely calculated, this does not mean that this would occur - the deterioration of the situation, I am speaking here relative to this happening. In view of the fact that the desire for financial effects was also expressed here, this change of course amounts to two billion tolars of financial failure, in which case, which we do not actually need, is unnecessary because these reliefs are replaced by a general relief and are included in the overall relief, and here once again it is solely a matter of adapting the whole scale and the whole law in relation to other taxpayers. With regard to the relief relating to housing relief, when we are talking about this relief, the basic starting point of the government in the proposal for a law was to exclude so-called special reliefs from the income, to increase the overall relief to this account and, by a general ease, to replace the possible loss of taxpayers. In view of the fact that a taxable person has taken account of a 4% relief, the increase in general relief is covered or 98% of taxpayers, those using housing relief. In other words, this means that the overall relief replaces the exclusion of individual taxpayers, the so-called special relief. Why is this actually done? In view of the fact that it simply means that the new revenue is charged by the tax administration to all taxpayers in order to meet the so-called IT tax bill, the IT tax bill, and on this basis it will be that the taxable person will not have any additional work in this respect. With this in mind, of course, I would like to say that an additional, special relief in terms of, for example, housing credit makes such a way of calculating income impossible. Which means, in other words, that in this case it would not be possible to carry out the tax bill in the manner provided for in the Tax Procedure Act. Here again, I would like to say that the overall relief ensures the same status to most taxpayers; if we are talking about housing relief, this is 98% of the taxpayers of 109 000 and 103 000, as you mentioned. From this point of view, this does not mean a worse situation for a very large majority of taxpayers. Such a proposal for housing relief in the form of a loan, according to our assessment, amounts to 5.5 billion out of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you. I'm asking for further applications. Here you go. Thank you. Member Cyril Testen has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. As previously said by the representative of Liberal Democracy, Mr Petek, this amendment has replaced the bill which we have already discussed at the previous session and has been rejected. It is true that this amendment is somewhat smaller or slightly lower in relation to the previous proposal, but I think it is a major intervention in the budget first. The Secretary of State said it was 5 billion and a half. I think if you also take into account the dependent family members that this is probably even a little bit more. However, I would also like to say that, in addressing these requirements, the structure of those who so far asked for these housing reliefs has been essential to those who have had higher personal incomes. It is said that, according to our assessment, the structure will now significantly increase in favour of those who have lower personal incomes and that there will be significantly more of these than has been 103 000 so far, mainly because it will be for a large number of 200 euros plus maintained family members of the "shkana" from the country. I think this will change if we confirm this amendment in this form. To a large extent, the housing issue, which has now been resolved through a 4% relief, solves the increased overall relief, but there are also several other solutions that have been offered by the new mortgage banking legislation. Here we are thinking mainly of mortgage loans, which we think are more long-term and more efficient in solving the problem of housing problems than tax credit. We in our parliamentary group will not support this amendment. We will not support it for the reasons that we have said because it has a significant impact on the budget and also because it is a general relief for the one who replaces it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. It is true that personal facilitation actually replaces part of what used to be with special reliefs, so it is higher, I agree. However, the very nature of the general relief shows that it is the same for all. So, all taxpayers have it the same way and at the same height. And we are talking about the category of the most demanding decision in human life. Category when you invest when you decide in your life to buy an apartment or invest in an apartment or rent a loan. And in this case, it is one incentive with this proposal of these people who are actually solving their problem while at the same time promoting housing in this Slovenian space. And that's why here our appeal, not our $5 billion, our calculations show a lower value so that such a tax credit would be appropriate at such a reduced amount, unlike those before 150,000, now support, because we were aware that this is not the case in the previous form. It was there that some who had higher personal income were actually reduced by this relief, others by progressiveity, and others were therefore added and balanced. This is a real intervention in the budget, but not such that we cannot replace it in this budget structure. I'll take a look at the events of the past 14 days, three weeks. It is interesting what we have heard from candidates, such and such, in cities and other municipalities, to talk about accelerating and increasing investment in the housing fund, i.e. building more housing, accelerating and increasing fertility in some environments. I must say that of those I have listened to, my competitors or other political options, no one had any idea about these effects of tax new legislation, let alone this effect of this legislation or this proposal that we are making. They all talked about how we would speed up, how we would build a larger number, how fertility would be increased, and how young families would have the motive to do so. That's all that came to mind. No one knew that this situation in relation to housing investment was the one which, in fact, made it possible for us to do so. For this reason, I would like to point out that the result of this amendment is relatively small, and the effects of such an amendment on the acceleration of housing, that is, some of the reliability and security of the family, that is to say that it is possible to create a family from earlier, to create or produce, an ugly word, that is, family members, that is to say, the amendment makes it a little easier, a little easier. So, decisions are easier to make, and that is the purpose of trying to enforce this amendment even with you, who, I believe, must primarily follow the government, but in any case I think that you have the right to vote alone in this national assembly and that the effect of such an amendment is more important than the result of the budget. As a result of this once more appeal, join us, we will accept this with gratitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! A number of comparative calculations have already been exposed here today. I would like to reiterate once again that those who are taxed at 16% have one family member, had the option of recovering 17,000 and several more Slovenian tolars if they were applying 4% relief to solve the housing problem following the legislation in force so far. That the one who had a problem with housing since the current legislation was entitled to a refund of 5,000 and a few tolars. When we make these calculations under the new proposal for income legislation, we can find that whoever continues to try to enforce tax relief will not be able to, because now he loses a 4% chance of relief, due to the overall relief which will be better due to 12,000, will at the same time be at a disadvantage due to the non-return of income due to a 4% reduction of 5,000 tolls. What group of people are we talking about? We're talking about a group of people representing 62.43% of all taxpayers. So it's bad 800,000 taxpayers in the Republic of Slovenia. And that means you'll get worse. And when we talk about the answers to the obvious about what this amendment brings, this amendment has two substantive solutions. For the first time, it is more socially fair, so it is no longer a matter of progressiveity, since it is no longer an intervention in reducing the annual tax base of the resident, but actually an absolute amount that interferes with all income levels. And secondly, what else this amendment brings - it brings greater relief to those who already have families with one, two or more children. Which is very important, because when we talk about the birth and the elements of family policy, we need to look at it in its entirety. And if we ask ourselves today, given that this 4% relief measure has been introduced within this government, we can ask ourselves who we have informed about a consistent policy in this area. For how will they react, and in what difficulties will people who, in fact, are on the basis of some prospect of solving their housing problem be counting on such or similar tax relief in the future? And when we talk about everything being resolved in general relief, of course, the accounts tell you it's not. That this is not the case and that these people - and we talked about talking about more than 60% of the taxpayers - will be worse. Especially will those who have already formed families who are supposed to care for the second, third, or more children who are being spoken of in other segments be, of course, placed in a worse position. But if we put in a government policy here that actually offers us some short-term work that offers us little work that offers us temporary work, that is, some solutions that will have negative effects both on the solution of this housing problem in people and on the design of families, then, of course, in the context of these measures, they could take a major step towards adopting this amendment. That is why, of course, I appeal to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, to you, representatives of the government, Mr Minister, to listen to the arguments, to listen to a very large number of people who will be affected if we do not find leverage to introduce housing relief, and to try to support the amendment proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone and thank your colleague Seal for having managed the session so far. And we are continuing the debate. The word is from a fellow Member Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Slovenian national party will support this amendment. The government led by the Social Democratic Party, focusing on the Social Democratic Party, should already be more social. They're not social-democrats anymore. That's how they used to be. They used to be. But young people are judgmental and do not have color blindness, and it is therefore to be expected that what they are doing now in these proposals will turn out to be a boomerang. The demagogy we're listening to here today is not acceptable to me. No one will be in a worse position, it was said. Of course they'll be in a worse position, 103 thousand will be affected. And look, if we're talking about the housing relief that came out because of the increased general relief, then of course it's unacceptable that, based on what we've done, we've hurt the very ones who are most anxious to be independent as soon as possible. It's a young population. And what happens, for example, when we put these young people in an unequal position, so they are not equal before marriage. Tax law is also the law. It happens that they buy land, then they save savings for the next construction phase, which, of course, is also expensive, the preparation of construction documentation, while again the state charges essentially the tax because the land is unbuilt. It just comes home, they have to pay taxes on an uncharted building plot, and then they follow utility taxes, utility taxes, and it goes on. There's something similar about an apartment if we go shopping. Why are we also speaking in this period now that we have had the opportunity to hear different sides of the political options? You've all talked about young people being a priority in development, that young people need to be looked at. But when we're ahead of the fact that we're doing something for young people, then we're all "get into a cat" here. You know, if you give a little less money to church institutions and also to the military, it would be taken care of in full, in the same way as Finland has, exemplaryly, after completion of the study, it is easy to get to an apartment that is not expensive, and it is possible to get an apartment during the study itself. And we're just saying, the demagogies in this National Assembly are huge, everybody just brag about some, in fact new things that are supposed to give some positive advantages in the budget, but we know that's not the case. People are getting worse. It just gets worse. Young people have no prospects for employment, they are still at the family nursery with their parents. I have two daughters myself, and I can see that these costs are increasing, and it doesn't seem that you could just say as you used to, a job is enough, we can choose where the child will go to work. It's getting less and less today. And this government, which assumes this responsibility, responsibility towards young people, should be more decisive in this segment. You could have come to the National Assembly because you could have promised someone something in the past, and those promises were forgotten. Young generations, believe me, you will no longer be able to promise in the future, because they are judgmental and will quickly judge who is right and who is wrong about them. And there are more and more who are actually expressing this mistrust to you. Be careful when you take away their fundamental rights. These are the rights of equality before the law. Young people also have the right to equality before the law. And once again, the tax law is also the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Since, without a government programme and without a government strategy in the past, I have taken care of greater fertility in this Slovenia, I am now calling and trying to convince the proposer or the government that it will only leave this facility for housing. Since this is primarily about, I have to say, as has been said today, about young people. I have the opportunity at home myself to see how these things have been resolved in recent years, and I believe that the abolition of this relief is indeed a national, social and political matter that will have some consequences over the longer term. It's not just quantitative, it's financial effects, it's not necessarily some psycho, it's some mood in society, if we're speaking in this national sense. In fact, these people, these young people who are trying to save themselves, as we talked about bees and bees before, are even better off than the bees that collect honey and beekeepers, and before that we give them relief, forgiveness to bees and beekeepers, and we do not give these young people this forgiveness. I therefore support the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy to add this new seventh paragraph to Article 112. There's something else I'd like to say. It has already been said several times today and the Secretary of State would point out that this increased general relief, which amounts to EUR 278 or a good $60,000, has already been slowly broken. It will be difficult to get something else into this increase of this relief, I have a feeling that it is here about some basket in which everything is put in, as proposed by the opposition with its suggestions, and put into this basket of general relief. We have increased the overall relief and thus made it possible and we can stop these special reliefs. I think this is some kind of deception and it would be good to stop it and talk about concrete individual proposals. One more time. I would like to warn you that, with everyone else, I think the psycho and the mood in society can be harmful to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is very simple, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Minister, tonight. The lift of general relief will not cover the previous reliefs together. Of course, the case is tragic, but tragically, as today's paper makes it very clear that the Ministry of Environment and Space has proposed that tax relief should be maintained, and the Ministry of Finance has said that the calculation process is too complicated. I don't know why you spent 40 million tolls on modeling. We believe that the tax credit we have proposed has provided a very simple basis for calculating this effect, so we propose that tax credit be accepted. However, we also propose in this article that we decide in Slovenia whether we have only one group of people to give everything to, and that is that group of people who are close to me, but I don't know some in the ruling coalition, but we have another large group of people for whom there is no money because we have to give it to this group. I'll be specific. Yesterday, I told Mr. Janez Janša that if you call a single bullet, I'd give you 3 euros first, then you'd take 30. If you've already decided to do what you're doing, then why didn't you do the next one, why did you still keep a 50% discount on interest on denationalising excuses? If relief is really needed, why are you the biggest relief, a relief that, according to the household, would only increase the burden for some, instead, we will now banally say, for a million euros in assets they receive about 100,000 euros in interest, the German brand plus 6 or the current euro plus 6, says they get about 100,000 interest, but for these 100,000 interest they should pay, like everyone else, 20% of the tax. You give them 10,000 euros in relief and you don't want to give 200 euros in relief to the taxpayers. Why, Mr. Minister, do you keep so much tax relief, but have you abolished 4% of the relief to solve housing problems? We all know how the proposal for denationalisation beneficiaries to pay at least 50% of the interest was adopted. We suggested it ourselves because you wanted to write them off all 20,000 interest. And that was in 2005, but that's when we introduced a 4% relief. Now, you said, we're removing 4% of the relief, but you didn't remember that there are reserves there for individuals who aren't that small, who get back property and have up to 10,000 interest a year, gifts from Mr. Minister. Explain this duality! And not then deceiving through the Prime Minister that the first goal is fertility. What a birthright! You've brought people to their senses. People are in debt. There's a lot of demand for housing loans, but now you've relieved yourself because you have a few billion problems that you're giving to someone I don't know. Cancel the discount for the payment of denationalisation interest and you will get this money in! That's what this is about. In this law, millions of tolars go to the government and to the richest, especially to the denationalising beneficiaries. We mentioned the richest ones who will receive one BMW under the government's mandate, and here 100,000 you take the opportunity to solve your housing problem. This is the duality of this government, this is the duality of fiscal policy. I therefore propose that you, Members and Members of Parliament, support the amendment. Please also support the fact that we are proposing further relief so that people can join the Internet and so on, and let us establish some normal conditions for all citizens, not that only one is more equal than the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I invite either the Minister or the Secretary of State to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Once again, I would like to stress that with the whole income system and the abolition of the so-called special benefits, where we also include housing relief, we actually cover 98% of the debtors, those who have used housing relief in the past year. This means an annual gross income of 9.7 million tolls per taxpayer, which means that only those who had a higher gross income of almost 10 million dollars will lose something, that is, 2% of those who used this tax relief, if we compare only this relief and not other provisions of the law. In fact, other provisions of the law encourage investment in housing and the resolution of housing problems. This is how, after all, with the Income Act, we abolish the taxation of subsidies that have in the past been subject to taxation for a young family when it comes to the first solution to the housing issue. After all, these subsidies were taxed in accordance with the law adopted in 2004. We also exempt or apply an exemption for interest under the savings contract under the national housing scheme, including contracts concluded for at least 5 years. So far, this has only been the case for contracts concluded for more than 10 years or for 10 years. In addition, the government is working not only with tax reliefs but also with direct investment, particularly in the housing fund, to ensure that housing problems are adequately addressed especially for young families. In this way, the government will earmark 3 billion tolars for the housing fund in 2006 and in 2007 it will continue 3 billion tolars exclusively to address the housing issues of young families. Until 2006, this has not been the case in the last five years, and the government has not allocated specific funds to the housing fund in the last five years, which means that this is 6 billion additional money to solve housing problems. In other words, the measures taken by the Government to resolve housing issues are others, particularly in the area of direct or indirect subsidies via the Housing Fund. Finally, the Mortgage Bonds Act provides solutions that also provide an adequate solution to housing policy or housing issues for those who do not have this issue resolved. From this point of view, we can talk about, on the one hand, that the abolition of tax relief for 98% of the taxpayers does not mean any impact on their tax, and on the other hand, other measures, in particular those with direct and indirect subsidies, contribute to the resolution of housing problems or problems and thus also to housing policy itself, as well as this policy has an impact on economic growth itself through the provision of additional works, through housing and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I'm once again inviting any debaters to sign up. Check-in is on. If he wants, he can rule. Thank you very much. I was just about to warn you. Thank you. We have four reported plus a government representative. My word, Mag. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	I would ask the Minister of Finance to answer our questions and then I will continue to discuss them. It is appropriate to discuss with the Secretary of State, but in principle the Secretary of State is professional, it is not good that he is misleading, but I would like to hear from the Minister politically why he supports the abolition of the housing allowance and maintains the relief for denationalising beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the Member of the Potsch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The comparisons that Mr State Secretary is giving us are attracted to hair. Mr Secretary of State, it can be said, and perhaps it is even mathematically close to the truth that 98 or 97% are covered by general relief. It is only unrealistic not to say that by increasing the overall relief for this group, some of the other options that they have had so far are being eliminated. It's true because we're changing the whole system. And when we do that, we also deprive these people of this opportunity to invest in the apartment that they had specifically in the previous system. And stop, stop deceiving people by tearing out something that suits you at that moment! Previously, we had the opportunity for these people, who were applying 2% relief for special purposes, to have the right to further apply housing relief. Now you're canceling this 2% relief because you're replacing it with a higher general exemption, and you're saying that we're going to cover each other once. You can't cover everything at the same time. The situation for those looking for or needing a new apartment is worse. That's probably the right thing to say. I will make it very simple, and it is half-truth, I admit, but listen, in the end it will remain that, in addition to what Mr Cvikl says, 50% relief for denationalisation beneficiaries, another group where everything has been arranged for them - this is the church. Earlier in three marriages, it was not in the way it was set up today. And I'm not saying it's not possible, but it's new, and it's got new rights - income rights, corporate income tax rights and inheritance tax rights and gifts. Whether this was absolutely necessary to that extent and whether you could do this comparative thing, you say, yes, this was where it had to be given because it was national or I don't know what the interest was. For families looking for and wanting to settle housing conditions, there we take and cover with 65,000 tolars annually increased overall relief. It's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I would suggest to the Secretary of State that what he said about the abolition of the housing allowance goes to this young population and tells them that he will get 'feed back' from them and they will explain things to him. So I think it's a partial deceiving and entanglement. Otherwise, I have an ever-increasing feeling that this reform that we are doing with us will be the only tax reform in the world on this Earth, which will be a lot more positive for all citizens that, we will all be richer, we will all have more, and economic operators will be more successful because of this tax reform. I really think we're opening up a bright future with a sun that will be closer to this earth's surface. It's going to get better, I understand the government and every government is mainly bragging, and I like to silence those side effects or those negative consequences that accompany such legislation. But at least sometimes we need to listen to the opposition voice in part, and we have an opinion, and we have a pictured state, and it is not our suggestions or our opinions or suggestions just from this point of view, because we are the opposition in this national assembly. We are trying to make this legislation more humane, not inhumane, so that people will hate it. And I warned you earlier, the young population, this psychological aspect, too, will have a humane attitude towards this legislation. And the consequences will be borne by you and must be borne by you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. And Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have heard so many beautiful words about how to solve the housing problems of young people, but nowhere did I find the true will to make a difference in the near future. Personally, I am not going to support this law or this amendment, not because I am negative about this problem. I think this is an amendment, you need to take a real look and pour yourself some pure wine. Here we apply a 200 or an additional 80,100 tax credit to practically everyone who invests in apartments and solves their housing problem. That's all, every family, every individual, at least some money or rent or rent. So, rare are those who won't have this relief. So let's say instead of 5 billion, let's say 300 times 1 million 276, it's 100 billion tolars, that we're real about these numbers, that we're not going to say that these are the little things that we give. However, I think that this way of solving this problem through income relief is completely inadequate and pointless. We know that these procedures are simplifying, and in some ways we will have to re-establish the whole cost recording apparatus of all these matters and prove the eligibility of these accounts and all these matters. That's not the purpose of this law. I think it's right for the law to be simplified. When I say that I am against this way and that it is necessary to look more seriously at it than just to say something nice about these numbers, I would say that in fact the problem of young families is large, but it has to be solved in another way. Young people are almost all employed for a certain period of time. Let us change the law on working relationships so that people will work indefinitely, not almost all for a certain period of time. Those who are employed for a certain period of time can't get a loan at all. He does have the possibility of mortgage credit, but mortgage loans require multiple guarantees on an approved loan. It's one small option that can't be used. Let's see what interest is. Despite the decline in interest, I do not know, the most favourable housing loans take into account the rebalancing, which is always unknown and the interest rates are moving there around 5 to 7%. That means simple, if you don't believe, then figure out, if you rent 15 million per 15 years, you'll pay 10 million more for interest, and if you don't have the conditions, you can't get a guarantee, or you don't have the property to rent it. Let us look for ways to actually help young people with family life. Let the State give a guarantee, if it does not have one, and guarantee its income and assume that responsibility, or sign off on loans to the housing fund for the resolution of these matters and under favourable conditions. Let him take some of the interest. We've given some of the benefits that are here, but I don't think that's how young people can solve a housing issue. We had a system when we were in society, we were giving 4% in companies on this issue, and we were giving credit to companies, and they were building apartments, and unfortunately we gave them to the one that I wouldn't say wrong, which was one big national stupidity that we did, but that's behind us. In fact, times are different now and people can't, prices go to heaven. We will not solve this, this is just one demagogy, one thing that will redistribute some money or give it all the same, because we will all get 300 euros at the end of the reduced tax. It doesn't matter if we do it. Everyone in Slovenia gives, I'm old, and every year I give so much to improve living conditions, you help children, you help with these things. Let us do one serious analysis of the situation, taking into account all the things that are currently in it and do certain things to actually help these young people. For example, we give in the housing scheme, we give one meal saved to make the country a donation and help in this way. But the system was so seductive that those who wanted a safe investment were those who had a lot of money that they didn't spend on housing problems at all. It is said that part of the funds we have earmarked for this purpose were for another purpose, to fertilise capital, which is still non-taxable. Although some changes are now being made, there is actually a need to regulate this area. I don't think this thing belongs in this sphere of income itself. The income is mainly labour taxation and must continue to decline in the future and must, in reality, have this part of the revenue at an ever lower rate in our public finances. But we have to make sure we save more money. The whole range of options is to reduce public spending where we are expendable or to increase the efficiency of the so-called social sector; this will have to be done further. In short, I will not support this amendment. But I am very much in favour of finding solutions that are appropriate and that will actually solve the problem as quickly as possible. It's not like we're just laying down some points here that aren't practically there, because we don't even know what we're giving or who we're giving to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, the Secretary of State, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The data I provide are based on actual data for 2005. And if the decision of persons with housing allowances to benefit from these housing allowances in 2006 is different, then the data will also be different. This is actually the data generated on the basis of the 2005 accounts for income. With this point of view, I would like to reiterate once again that the government wants to achieve the objective of the simplicity of the law here, which makes it impossible to do so, but other measures are based on housing issues that address the problems of young families, both in the area of direct or indirect subsidies that the government invests in the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. He'll be complemented by a minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to point out two things. First of all, to make this easier, as it is now in the law, as has just been stated by one of the Members of Parliament, in fact, it is all the same, whether or not it needs to be done or does not need to be done. The fact is that the government has decided on this approach when we eliminate special reliefs and introduce a general one, that to a large extent to those who need it, we also create this compensation through general relief. It is always possible to find an example of someone who will lose in one way or another. But if you're looking at the average, actually this general relief is partially a substitute. In particular, it replaces this different approach, the fact that the government proposed to the National Assembly this year, and this is also the first time that this National Assembly has accepted this, I would say, some long-term arrangement of mortgage bonds that we have not had so far. One of the biggest problems with our banking system was that you don't have long-term resources. If banks owned by Slovenians or by Slovenian countries actually want to borrow in the long term, they had to borrow abroad in the long term, and so were these differences. And that's a messy part of our square. The basis for this has been given and this National Assembly has adopted a law on mortgage and utility bonds, which has not yet fully recovered, mainly because we have two problems. On the one hand, the banking system is under great pressure, as far as the euro is concerned. This will be done in the discussions we have with domestic bankers who will do so immediately after 1.1.2007. On the other hand, the outstanding systemic issue is the whole of our land book, which does not guarantee the lender the legal certainty that can be expected elsewhere in the world. To a large extent, this has already been resolved, but to do so, we need long-term systemic solutions. and it is right that we begin to address this issue not in some general way, but that the government and the state of their resources, which are always limited, have been limited sometimes, are limited today and will also be limited in the future to those groups that really need it. In this context, I think that the funds that the state has dedicated, the government and this National Assembly have also adopted in the 2006 and 2007 budget, for the first time in five years, I have not gone back to checking, but the first recapitalisation since 2000 to the housing fund, from which Slovenia has only received affairs and stories, was for 3 billion in 2006 and in 2007 an additional 3 billion, and a long-term systemic solution. On the other hand, as far as relief is concerned, the question of when it has already been raised twice is a question of denationalisation. You know well that this law has been passed in the past. The National Assembly of previous constitutions adopted this law in such a way that it would not be taxed. This government and this National Assembly reached an agreement last year to tax it for the first time, 50%. We are behind this agreement, and if anyone has changed his mind, let him explain to himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please log in again. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. We've got five more applications. The first one has the floor, Mr Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. A little earlier, we could have listened to a discussion by a coalition colleague and, in large part, it would be possible to attach his debate. Of course, I cannot agree that the Government's actions are in this direction. When we talk about how to ensure social security, we are talking about how the best form is, of course, to have regular work. Why is there an increasing number of employment for a certain period of time? Why are there increasing numbers of unemployed among young people? We can also assess this through the government's actions over the last two years. Let us just remember what it offers us through the law on social protection and employment and unemployment insurance. We offer every job to young people, i.e. a big gap between how to find a job and what the measures of this government are. If these labour measures, in the social field, are also linked through family policy, and the measure that we are offering here today with the amendment, that is to say a relief to address the housing problem, then of course we can talk about the fact that the government's actions are not consistent. The government simply does not offer solutions that are also oriented in this direction. Therefore, it is the amendment that the work of the inhabitants, those who want to have support in solving their housing problem, should be able to do so through income legislation. I would be very happy, and I would also like to agree with my fellow Member if all the other measures were so directed that we would not need to apply this here today in a way of special relief that you consider such a problem to trigger such a problem in the calculation that it is not possible to introduce it. I'm sure we can do this, but there's no will at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of the Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to explain to the Minister only my way of seeing, making decisions on denationalisation. I am not saying that he is the only one who is objective, but he is significantly different from what Mr Minister sees. In 1991, the law was adopted. It was accepted by the majority of Demos. Legally, it was adopted following appropriate procedures but defended the interest of a particular group and certain political options. Since then, some have tried to change it, but it has failed. Once the bad half was implemented, I stopped trying to change it, because I felt impossible to interfere with the new legal decisions in something that had already been implemented for more than half of the beneficiaries. And from then on, we will carry it out to the end, and we will carry it out to the end. Whoever wants to be a little objective has to admit that there was no European country in transition or not that would have accepted something similar. It's not denationalisation, yes or no, but how and to what extent and in what way. And Slovenia was the only one who returned everyone who returned by the criteria that gave important advantages to people, especially to descendants who lived abroad and to the church. And these are the two categories that you got the most. If anyone thinks that awful much got him who had his apartment or a house with four or five apartments nationalized for years, I don't know, 1958, but that he got back here to get a terrible asset, or farmers who got two or three hectares. No, that wasn't the point of denationalization. That was somewhere else. The descendants who lived abroad, and the church, they got you. And then when we decided to go to the stamps, plus 6% real. Look, there's two things you need to consider then. First of all, the fact that no interest was taxed at the time, neither were these, but neither were any others. And secondly, what was inflation like back then and the plus 6% brand was a relatively average interest rate. What's the euro and 6% today, and you know better than I do because you're dealing with finance. It means at least three times as much as the average interest rate you can otherwise get. And today we tax everyone else, and this part we forgive half. And everyone who warns that this is about inequality is right. Again, as it was in 1991, it is the political decision of this majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I will focus more or less on the implementation of my SDS colleague, Mr Starman. Why? Because I appreciate that there was a lot of beauty in its implementation. Put your hands on your heart, a lot of pretty talk. Mr. Starman is disturbed or says that there are other reasons why other areas need to be regulated. It assesses what is, of course, right to assess that most people in our country are currently employed for a certain period of time. But it was the intention of this government, in the public sector, in the public sector, in the public sector, also elsewhere, that we would be better able to follow what European trends or that there would be more accuracy in employment. Well, don't make fun of him. Last but not least, you know, Mr Starman, even under this employment law, there was an inviolable reason or acquittal under this government for uncriminal reasons. Mr Šircelj, you say that relief is not possible, housing relief under this Article or this amendment, because of the simplicity of the procedure, because it is the desire of this government under the Income Act to simplify the income assessment procedure. I am sorry that you hope to say this out loud when we talk about solving the housing problem when we talk about housing relief. I would like to know what you will say in the framework of Article 142, which does not in fact follow the simplification of the income assessment procedure, but makes it difficult for the income assessment process. This is from the 0.5% rate of income that citizens and citizens will be able to make, I will say, not entirely on their own terms, but on the basis of government criteria, also and especially on the basis of generally beneficial organisations. What does a generally beneficial organization mean, and we all know it well. And I will return, or I will not just return, to touch on the denationalising beneficiaries and the dual morals of this government. But if you'll excuse me, I won't be long. Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of this Government, said yesterday at a meeting on questions or answers to parliamentary questions that the government is trying to save where possible. It is sad that this government is trying to save in the context of solving the housing problem in young people, to try to solve, not least, the social transfers to which the lowest segments of the population are entitled. But we'll talk about it, not today, but in this session. Allow me to conclude. I fear that, in fact, Comrade Starman is the one or the one who is most responsible for actually proposing the right financial solutions. I will certainly support this amendment because I consider this to be a step forward, a step forward in solving the housing problem. When we were talking or when I heard that an analysis of the situation should be done first. The analysis of the situation in the area of housing is done and generally stated: this analysis is catastrophic or catastrophic. Last but not least, I am interested in the fact that I estimate that this behaviour of the government is a departure from the coalition contract, and allow me to mention for the end only and only what this government has written in a coalition contract under which SDS, DeSUS, Nova Slovenija and SLS are signed. The coalition will lead a well-targeted family policy by improving the possibilities for reconciliation of professional and family life and families-friendly tax and housing policies. Indeed, it is simply a matter of words on paper or, unfortunately, paper goes through everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. A fellow Member of Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Some of the debates, if I listen to them and, of course, if they are followed by those accompanying this meeting, are going in this direction, in this context, to get the feeling that through tax legislation we are solving housing problems. When we talk about this issue, about housing issues, we have, because we have heard that today, a lot of other instruments that actually encourage and create a positive environment to solve the housing problem. But we should probably start in some local communities. For we have instances where some congregations actually do not have accepted wall plans to speak about the prices of parcels. From this moment forward, Mr President, it is only about the amendment, which means actually reintroducing a relief to solve the housing problem, in the form of a tax credit. How do I understand the reasons for ending the relief so far? I understand them so that they are certainly the simplicity and transparency of the tax system, i.e. tax reliefs, that they were important objectives in the drafting of new tax legislation. Therefore, the proposal for a new Income Law proposes the abolition of certain allowances. Individual socio-economic objectives, especially if they are sought by a narrower group of taxpayers, are more appropriate to pursue with other non-taxable instruments, as the tax system, as has already been said, is limited in achieving those objectives. Through other systems, which we have already heard from the Secretary of State today, it is possible to better target the desired effects on each target group. The abolition of certain concessions is replaced by an increase in general relief and the introduction of less progressive taxation. We haven't talked about this much at this point. It is necessary to underline the reduction in the progressiveity of taxation, which in general means greater available income for the debtors. The model calculations that were made and transmitted to us on the basis of the 2005 data do not convince me. They're actually made on one decimal point. And those who don't trust them can get this data themselves and make a model calculation. More income will also cover the resources used to address the housing problems of the debtors. This is how I understand this suspension of the current relief to solve the housing problem, so I will not support this amendment by the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. A fellow member of the Magi shall have the floor. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Very briefly, Mr. Secretary. The deal was broken by the government. The law, which introduced 50% relief, exemption for denationalising excuses, also introduced 4% relief for housing. Four percent of the relief was lifted by the government, we're bringing it back. Why? In order to give those 10,000 euros to someone, the minister would give them to someone who receives a million euro bonds to 20 families with three children and each would receive 500 Euros of tax credit. That's what we suggest. Let him accept that, and we have an agreement. To say that we are opposed to abolishing the relief for those who receive millions of euros, because we once stated that we have imposed at least 50% of the taxation, the minister wanted to completely abolish the taxation of the interest on denationalising beneficiaries. Totally! The government's proposal was, no interest payments. So I suggest you take a look at who broke the deal. 4% of the relief was lifted by you as a government because you had a problem calculating. It's actually a little harder to calculate 4%, so you have a tax credit proposed. It is very easy to calculate the tax credit. You don't accept that. That is why I propose, Members and Members, especially from the SLS, those who said that Minister Podobnik proposed this, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Parties, if you are already proposing mortgage bonds. Who's gonna take mortgage bonds if they don't pay interest? Support the amendment and save that Mr Janša will be at least a little credible if he already says that fertility is his first objective. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and two amendments? Please sign up. Thank you very much. A fellow Member shall have the floor. [[He's quitting.]] The next one has the word mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	I expect the Minister to come back first and tell us what was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	So far, the government representative has not applied for the debate. The next is a fellow Member Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. I am particularly interested in what I asked earlier in the debate, but I did not get an answer. When government representatives speak, it has been said, quote, 'no one will be in a worse position', that is simply not true. I would ask you to answer me, not just to me, but to others who are watching us, why you lie to all the Slovenian public so that there will be no harm in this area in young people. It's 103,000 people who will be equal before marriage. Equality before marriage is also a constitutional norm, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The following is the word of a fellow Member, Kovačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the LDS amendment. However, I note that it is repeated today, as it has always been, when the current assembly addressed tax laws or budgetary documents, this similar demagogous debate. The opposition Members have always focused their debates on the forecast of what will happen and how much damage the individual legal standards will cause. Even today, this story repeats itself. Once again, you are talking about how the amendment to the Income Law will cause greater burden and aggravate living conditions for certain groups of people. This should be done in order to reduce the specific benefits in the area of housing rescue, as well as in other areas. It's a similar story to a demagogue. Therefore, one citizen is supposed to be more protruding than the other, one being less equal than the other, who would lose out of special relief. This is also happening today in practice with every debate of the opposition Members. Nothing helps to convince that what they lose by abolishing special tax relief, for example in this area of the amendment, is the same in the area of housing rescue, but also applies to other areas, to gain even more in other areas or to gain more general relief than they lose by abolishing special relief. On the one hand, it is a general relief that is increasing and thus compensates for the negative effect of the special relief. That's one. This also ensures the consistency of tax legislation, which creates an effective system, including economic development. However, if this system, despite compensation in the form of general or in the form of an increase in general relief, causes a social problem in some cases, this social problem must be resolved in areas where the state provides for the resolution of social problems, namely in the area of other legislation governing a particular area where the social problem arises, then also at the level of the government or ministries with specific measures taken by the government or ministries. In his debate, the Secretary of State made it very clear that all those regulations and regulations that specifically address the housing problem of young families, as well as those that stimulate young families. Yesterday, the Prime Minister also made it very clear that the tax system regulates and must ensure the effective functioning of the state and thus pursue as much economic development as possible by making the economy as burdensome as possible. However, addressing social problems and problems is the area of other legislation and other government measures, which this country also actually provides. There may be more to be done, I agree, okay, but let's deal with this in the area where this is regulated, not in the income law. Let us not mix pears and apples if we want a simplified and more efficient tax system. And there's something else I'd like to say. Just as before, when you have always predicted the same thing that will happen if this or this is determined, one or the same law in the field of tax rules and, of course, also in the field of budget, it has always been the same: it will be a disaster, it will cause inequality. That's the way it is today. You always talk, it will happen, it will, it will, it will. However, what you have predicted is not and has not been, it is not, even the opposite, the results in the field of the economy are even the best so far, and you have predicted an economic flood and you are repeating it today. Do you not feel embarrassed that, despite the fact that your black predictions have never come true, you are still predicting again today what will happen, what will happen, and what will happen? I'm sure it won't be as you predict. Also because of the experience I have in these two years. It will be different, and it will be different than it has always been before. This will be the case, in my opinion, as well as the law we are considering today. This law ensures simplification of income legislation, relieves the economy, stimulates entrepreneurship and innovation. Why do some so vehemently and demagoguely oppose this, certainly a positive effect and positive effects? Or is it because you do not want these goals to be that lead Slovenia forward, that lead Slovenia around those countries that are still in development today so that these goals do not come true? Is that your goal, perhaps?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. However, I would ask that you try to remain within the framework of Article 112 and the upcoming amendments. Member Starman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you very much again for your word. Thank you for the compliment of my colleague, because so far I have thought that I do not have good words, I am always trying to find professional arguments and say what I can also support with numbers and actual situations. The fact is, I said it is theoretically possible, given the amendment that is proposed, where anyone who saves, improves, gives rent for the apartment, this relief can apply to an additional amount of 200 or 80 or 100 tolars. This is, if we say that this is the option for all taxpayers to take advantage of it, it is EUR 1 million 276 times 200, if I take the lowest possible option, it is EUR 255.2 million, or if we recalculate it a little bit, it is political 60 billion. This is a theoretical option, and it seems to me that it is wrong to solve the housing problem of young people in this way, because it would be easier to say that overall the overall relief is increased by EUR 200, which is 48 thousand tolars. According to an amendment such as virtually anyone can enforce these 200. And it doesn't matter that we collect accounts, we don't have any complications, we say, the proposal is that everyone gets what's wrong. The goal is to actually get young people an apartment and everything. That is why this money that we are about to give, somewhere else, in a different way, needs to be targeted. Or through loans additional to the housing funds we have for this purpose or for a reduction, to provide guarantees for housing or to reimburse part of the loan costs. Those specifics on those things. I also said that we haven't had a problem in practically 50 years. Each received either loans or the country from the total fund 4% built an apartment. We all had, and the housing fund was rich. But the fact is, young people really don't have any options. Like I said, if they're employed for a certain period of time, they can't get a 15-year loan, and that's the end if we don't help him in some way. And he can't practically build on his own. The prices of dwellings are cloudy and the situation of a young family today or 20 years ago is completely different as far as this problem is concerned. I have been very specific about this, and I mean it in concrete terms. I don't think the space is right, but there's something that needs to be done in some other source for this area. It is necessary to make systematic, very concrete and direct the resources that we want to make for this purpose to the exact target group that it needs most. We're not solving any problem here, but we're creating one potentially much bigger hole than we're counting. However, we need to be committed, we have a whole lot of opportunities under housing schemes, as part of additional savings or co-financing of construction. Once again, the conditions for building, for investing in young people are impossible. The housing market raises the cloud, those who have earned a lot of money, buy five apartments on reserve, or those who have received the free ones that we have built together, manipulate and raise their rents and take these things to the clouds. We have to do something here. I've been very critical here, but I don't think this space is this supplement here, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	While some feel that this is not a good solution or that it does not appear in such a form in such a law, I know that this is a step forward. I will not say it is the only solution, but it is undoubtedly one of the positive solutions that follows, if you will, the government's outlined guidelines under the coalition agreement. Better positive housing policy for young people, for young families, for all citizens and citizens of our Republic. You know, I'm worried, but I don't mean to be rude, but I'm really worried that one and the same are taking over, or they're worried about a few hundred people, that they're worried about the church as the biggest denationalisationist in our country. It's me, 50% easy. 104 thousand or about 100,000 people in our country, those who were already granted housing relief in 2005, no, not them. So much for equality. And that's what I wanted to say or say when I was talking about nice talk. This was also heard yesterday and heard and will be heard today by government and coalition representatives, those who hope to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss article 112 and the amendments? I'm reopening the application and please log in. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to point out the specific numbers in the end. Last year, almost 104 thousand taxpayers enforced 4% of the legislation, namely 104 000. This is a relief now. Once again, more than 60% of taxpayers are charged with a 16% tax rate and for these groups - for example - the calculation shows that those who have one family member and solve their housing problem will be in worse shape. The calculations show they'll be worse. So I'm not talking about minority groups, I'm talking about precise accounts, and I'm talking about economic or social disadvantaged groups, and this is what we're talking about here today, and it's going to be worse. To conclude, when the government introduced a 4% level amendment, many taxpayers expected the long term of this measure. And, of course, by abolishing this measure, these people will be placed in a different, more difficult situation when, of course, they will have to repay the obligation to rent funds to solve their housing problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We taxpayers had a lot of comments on the 2005 income tax form on the so-called marble form. It is no coincidence that so many questions came to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, so many taxpayers who simply asked for help to fill out this form were extremely complicated. Today, thank God we have a good solution in the tax process and no one has criticised it. That means they're good solutions. And the abolition of relief is also conditioned by the solutions in the Tax Procedure Act, which brings in the first stage a system of pre-fulfilled forecasts and later a system of even informative calculation of the tax authority's income. Of course, once again, the abolition of relief does not mean that it would affect taxpayers, particularly those who care about solving the housing problem. Therefore, there is an increase in general relief, which in some ways compensates or amortises the termination of this relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. And mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Mr. Horvath, stop fooling around! Nothing goes away, general relief goes up by 3 euros! It'll take 30 euros to end it! The difference is minus 27 euros, Mr. Horvat, per month! What's wrong with you?Oh, my God! Very simple. Look, we're warning and proposing an amendment to eliminate one of the biggest nonsense in this marriage. This law is indeed 800,000 that for only two coffees more per month, while 10,000 gives for one BMW during the term of government. This is the characteristic of this law. But this law, at the same time, also good solutions introduced in 2004 and supplemented in 2005, completely abolishes - solutions that are the basis of economic growth. And, Mr Kovacic, where do you think that high economic demand and growth are, if not from loans that people can pay now that these loans are 10-15 years old, are able to take them for the first time and put them into housing relief. Where do you live? Do you live on the moon? This is happening in Slovenia. And if you don't know that, we could ask Mr. Arhar. Now he's going back to Bank Austria, and that's where he's going to be dealing with this -- giving housing loans. And I hope he'll deal with it. Therefore, I propose that you support Mr Arhar so that he can continue his business in Bank Austria, granting housing loans. Support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening a debate on Article 114 and the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want to talk? I still need to formalise and initiate the application. Thank you very much. Only Mr Koren and a representative of the government have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you, President, for your word. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! Article 114 of the Income Act provides for a benefit for dependent family members. Personally, as well as my fellow Members in Novi Slovenija, we are pleased that the benefits for dependent children for large families have increased. That's from the third child on. The rate of progressive tax relief from a third child has increased from EUR 748 to EUR 1500. This means that the relative situation of families with multiple children compared to those with equal income without children will not only be maintained, but even slightly, though little, improve. Many in Slovenia are pleased that the Ministry of Finance has a hearing for large families. By increasing the tax relief of this general problem, we also partially eliminate the loss of benefits for the settlement of the housing problem, as we have just said, although I must also say that the solution to the housing problem needs to be addressed. Personally, I will adopt appropriate and necessary legislation to make it easier for young people to get to the right place. We have before us an amendment which would mean that the calculation of the income would again be complicated so that the law would not follow the simplification of the procedure. As a result of the increase in general relief, the majority of the benefits proposed by the LDS House of Members should be covered by health checks as well as other benefits. The proposed law aims at simplifying the forms and calculating the income. And since all these reliefs are covered both in increased general relief and in increased relief for dependent family members, this amendment makes no sense and I will not personally support it, nor will I support my fellow Members in the Group. I am aware that everyone would like some additional reliefs that could be exercised, but from the point of view of simplification and from the point of view of the fulfilment of the tax return, or later, if only they had an informational calculation of the income, the inclusion of a type of relief would be pointless or would make the law worse. A general relief has been raised, which greatly increases the relief of all those who are committed and the welfare of others, which would greatly increase the relief of all those who are committed and the well-being of some special nonsense. There is no point in deceiving the public as the proposed law reduces tax rates and pays less income to each of the debtors. There will be substantial simplifications and revenues in the future will no longer be forecasted, but from the tax office we will obtain informational income calculations. This is the essential advantage that needs to be supported and the adoption of the proposed amendments, in my view, we are breaking these matters. In New Slovenia, we are happy to see a person, an individual, a family looking at the law, that every situation improves and at the same time introduces simplifications that bring about the fact that income will no longer have to be forecasted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The amendment or amendment tabled is submitted to an article which provides for a special relief for dependent family members and therefore does not, in our opinion, belong here. The proposed amendment is also not in line with the origins of the Income Act with the starting points in the sense that special reliefs are abolished and tax collection is ensured at the expense of the simplicity and transparency of the tax system. After all, the already existing 2% tax-based special reliefs did not provide solutions in all the areas that are actually proposed here. In fact, the question is always whether to give special reliefs or lower rates. And in this proposal, the government has decided to actually lower rates and simplify the whole system of income accounting, which will also, of course, be for the benefit of both taxpayers and tax administrations. As a result, the amendment does not seem acceptable to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I would like to invite you back to the debate. Please sign up. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	I inform the Slovenian public that Nova Slovenija, the government, Mr Janša is pleased to see the discount for tuition, textbooks, professional literature, medicines. That's politics. You are abolishing the benefits of investing in knowledge, which is the basis for the development of a company competing with the global economy. This is the right policy - Members of Parliament support the amendment to correct some of the nonsense under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening the application. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I don't know how to make up for this explanation, despite the fact that nothing is getting any worse, that no relief is being abolished, that someone is getting worse, but this thing is being compensated by an increase in general relief and, of course, that social problems are being solved by other legislation and other measures in this area, and yet this black forecast is constantly repeating. I don't know if you've missed your predictions 15 times before. I don't know if anyone will believe you. You're not credible from this point of view. And what you just said, Mr. Squeakle, is again in this, do you think that a repeated repetition of lies becomes the truth? No, and that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	I would suggest, Mr President, procedurally that you tell Mr Kovacic that we are talking about the amendment and nothing else. Otherwise, there's only one piece of information. 16% [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	Mr. Squeakle, this is not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	My procedural proposal is to draw Mr Kovacic's attention to focusing on the amendment rather than on individual Members. I just read what the amendment says. We propose the return of the textbook's relief, professional literature.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u155	Mr. Squeakl, you know the purpose of the procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you so much for your insight. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u158	I also think it's necessary for me to communicate after the disinformation of the mags. Training Slovenian public that Nova Slovenija raises general relief and that no one will be deprived of this because we will not accept their amendment. However, some other things may need to be reported to the Slovenian public. By adopting the proposed law, we will save him a lot of time and a lot of energy when they do not have to collect, store, obtain data, meet demanding forms, seek and pay dear experts to help them meet their tax forecasts to calculate the option that will be most appropriate and most favourable. They won't have to do all this anymore. And the savings will be huge. More than it would be with this relief you're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. And the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In preparing tax legislation, including in preparing or deciding on which benefits are included in the Income Act and which are not, the Government, on the basis of its examination, concluded, on the basis of the analysis, that some of the incentives so far have not produced satisfactory effects and that, after all, it is also in line with the expertise and opinions of certain professional international institutions, a decision and the concept of the law has been taken to replace facilitations for various purposes with approaches to reducing tax rates. After all, by reducing progress, by reducing tax rates on income, by reducing tax classes, by abolishing the maximum tax rate of 50%, a policy has been adopted to ensure the development of education, including innovation and innovation, and, of course, tax legislation is only one of all policies that the government is responsible for in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. As I've noticed, there are some other wanted debaters. So I'm reopening the application. Please. Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Bajtz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't mean to make any calls, but with that introduction to this amendment, mentioned by my colleague Squeakle, I felt that it was necessary for me to come forward. The increased general relief actually brings everyone the same. Taking into account and taking into account the possible adoption of an amendment as proposed, I do not think that this would be the case, at least for those who do not have a lower tax base, given that it is talking about percentages and speaking for individual purposes. I don't think a lot of people with a lower tax base are gonna be able to afford or can't afford one of those 10%-privileged people. That is why I think that this general relief follows, which equates those with a high and those with a low tax base, that this is the right one, but not the reintroduction of some differences and can be applied by those who have - I will say - a high tax base and also become a taxable person. That's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I see that no one wants to discuss any more and that is why I am concluding the debate on this article and the amendment. I am putting to the debate article 142 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application, please sign in. Thank you very much. The first one has the word "magic." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members and Members of the Government. As part of the general debate, I have already mentioned that I support the decision on 0.5% of the earmarking of income for donations in principle, or that it will be possible for an individual to decide for himself where part of the income will be allocated. However, I have already pointed out that I see the weakness of this provision in that it does not take into account all of whom I believe that they are often in the minds of individuals when they want to donate, but also, given how we like to refer to what we support in this country, it is only right that they should be named in this article. It is not only about who we want to appoint, but also about the consistency of this provision with other provisions. And here in the second paragraph, as just mentioned in the amendment of the Social Democrats, I miss mentioning some non-governmental organisations or non-profit organisations that could also be the headlines of donations. In case I say so. We say we are aware of the importance of science, but scientific organisations are not mentioned among those who could be the addressees of donations. That is why we include the Social Democrats in our amendment. For example, if I take the Slovenian Science Foundation, it is certainly such that it is unprofitable, I cannot donate it from that 0.5% because it is not mentioned among these organisations that can be donated to them. I don't know why it should be just humanitarian work or charity work that would bring relief, along with some others. I think that our amendment, which, in the circle of all those who can be addressees, also gives those organisations that work in the framework of social protection, education and education, health, sport and consumer protection, consumer protection, the appropriate addressees to be able to receive donations from also 0.5% of the income. However, it seems to me that the proposal proposed by the coalition to delete the third paragraph, after which the Government should set out a more detailed way of implementing the first paragraph of this Article and publish a list of beneficiaries of grants under this Article, is problematic to the extent that - I do not know - by which principle it will then be possible to determine how the individual has decided whether or not the addressee has chosen properly. This seems even more problematic to me because the government or tax administration will now meet the tax or income forecast form instead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of his colleague Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u166	Your Honors are here! I will talk about the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 142, which deals with the replacement of part of the income for donations. In this article, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed to certain areas in which an individual resident, a taxable person, may indicate a certain part of the income. In the national party, I must stress this, we believe that there are too many duplications in Slovenian legislation. And the second paragraph of Article 142 is a typical example of double funding - financing that we will be able to label as one of the most untransparent sources of funding for individuals in the future, whether by organisations or by themselves, as they call religious purposes in the second paragraph. We all know here today that there is a law on religious freedom in the procedure. The Law on Religious Freedom, which defines in its content the financing of religious communities. We all know that there is a provision in the Constitution for the separation of religious communities and states. Today, we all see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through this law, is trying to introduce a secondary source of state funding, i.e. through taxes, through income to religious communities. And allow, as far as possible, interesting, on the 11th of this year's year, the Victory of Jelinčič the Noble asked a question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which reads: "How much is the business and real estate property of the Roman Catholic Church and how much did it pay taxes?" In accordance with the deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he received a reply on 19.10. So, days ago. Let me quote you the most important part: "The government does not have data on the size of the business and immovable property of the Roman Catholic Church, nor does it have data on the total tax paid. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have data on taxes paid, nor does it have data on income, nor does it have data on movable property, nor does it have data on immovable property." And from this title, at least in the parliamentary group, we find such a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia totally inappropriate. On the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia seeks to finance multiple religious communities. We have previously found that this is taking place within the framework of the Law on Religious Freedom. We all know that the Law of Religious Freedom is at a stage when unfortunately it is no longer possible to change it. And today you are also introducing funding under 0.5%, replacing part of the income for donations. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not even have a basic record of the amount of remuneration. How, then, can someone who is credible in this Chamber, of course, call on the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to say where the need for funding came from, but if he does not know how much they have so far, the assets in any form and the amendment or amendment that we offer to you within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, is without prejudice to Article 142 itself, but is essential in terms of maintaining the provisions of the Republic of Slovenia's Constitution on the separation of religious communities and the State? Therefore, we propose that the words "religious" be deleted in this Article 142. All other rights to choose remain. And that is the only purpose we have within the national party with the amendment mentioned above. Once again, all those who may not believe, because we ourselves did not believe that we have such an incompetent government, that the richest economic operator does not know how much assets he has in any form and that he does not know what his tax obligation is. From this title, honourable Members and Members, you who have a choice and who are sworn to respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, we simply need to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to remind the Government, as well as colleagues, Members and Members, that I expect an explanation on the main issue, that is, what changes and additions adopted by the Government give them their consent and are financially embedded in the proposal for an income law in the second reading. I heard the Secretary of State when he was able to say very quickly what such a proposal we are making might mean financially. I expect that the steps are also known for the proposals adopted and that we will learn them. I know how long it's been, I mean, I don't want you to get on my nerves, and I'm gonna wait until the end of this, but I won't be surprised if you're acting so arrogant as to not tell me this information because it wouldn't happen to me for the first time. Now, for two proposals, which are referred to in Article 142. Colleague Majda Pótá cited the institutions included in Article 142, which we consider to be the same as mentioned in this Article, deserve the possibility of a taxable person contributing up to 0.5% of the income to social security purposes, scientific, educational, health, sports, consumer-protection. Second. I would really like to find out, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what are the reasons for the differences you have in the four solutions that concern some kind of intentional giving of funds, twice in income, once in the income of legal persons and once again in the law on inheritances and gifts. Why, how do you justify these differences? With what can you say that - let's say - in 142nd Article - just one moment to find it - it is possible, for example, to be charitable, disabled, ecological, cultural, but not for medical, scientific or educational purposes? I would really like to hear about these arguments. And the third thing I'm gonna say. The answer given by Mr Victory Jelinčič to his question of the mission, I read it two days ago and must say that I did not know what to do. Whether to curse or to weep or to despair over such content of the answer, it says that what we had previously asked about the situation of the church's property was a joke to the higher answer given by the government. Besides that, I have no answer here, Mr Pece will be able to read it, 1300 and something - I don't know exactly how many - are the number of legal entities that are under different names within the Roman Catholic Church, which declares its immovable property and is listed in the land book, 1300 and something, I don't know or 71 or 37. In short, huge numbers. What is the order at this point? I do not propose that this religious part should not be excluded from the four cases where donations are made. But all these things need to be aligned and evened, or it will really make an impression, gentlemen from the government, that you have only some specific objectives - some who are interested in you, to identify and ensure an improved and particularly privileged position. For those of you we talked about an hour and two ago, you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I'm setting up the application. Thank you very much. This time we will start with the Secretary of State because he has already applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! 142. Article 142 of the Income Act is a new article. Here I am thinking mainly of the fact that there is an opportunity for natural persons to also make donations for various purposes, which are also mentioned. The law mentions the words "and other purposes", which means that social protection, scientific, educational, health, sports and consumer protection purposes are included for these other purposes. However, I would like to draw attention to the dictates of this Article in the case of a person whose activity is of public interest. It is said that a person must work in the public interest, society must work in the public interest. What does that actually mean? This means, of course, that there are institutions, societies and so on within individual ministries, which have a guarantee or whose activity means that they work in the public interest. Which, in other words, means that this is not any established society, but only one that works in the public interest. So from this point of view, the government believes that this amendment is already covered in the text of the law itself. The following question emerged: Why are various purposes listed in the Income Act compared with the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and also in the Law on Heritage and Gifts? Because of the purpose of those who give, it is said whether it is business or natural persons, according to our assessment, there can be a different, very simple reason, there is no other special reason. It is likely that a shareholder does not have the same purpose when he makes a donation as a natural person. And in fact, article 142, if we look at the Income Act, in the very dictatorship we're talking about, the widest article can be given for all sorts of purposes. I would like to repeat this condition here once again, that this is a matter of public interest. With regard to the question mentioned here, or the answer to the question of taxes paid by the Roman Catholic Church, I would like to stress the following. The Roman Catholic Church is not a taxpayer. The debtors are bishops, monasteries, communities or other organizations established by the church or established by other persons. As a result, the tax administration actually controls the collection and payment of taxes on taxpayers. Since the Roman Catholic Church is not a taxable person, it cannot be taxed as a whole, but legal persons are taxed, those who are taxable under the law on corporate tax or on income or under any other tax law. This does not mean, of course, that institutions, bishops, monasteries, communities and other organizations do not pay or charge taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia just said that we cannot balance the general benefit with the capital companies. You mentioned a company. This was from your response that it was not carried out within the framework of the shareholders. Allow me to point out or develop the thought forward or the theory forward that you should be, and I believe you know it. I'll take the case, the Roman Catholic Church - we all know - has a lot of equity companies in its hands. Is there a work that is generally recognized? In these equity companies? No, no, no. We all know you don't. These companies are set up for speculation in the financial market, these are different brokering organisations for the purchase of securities and all other activities in the financial market. And from this title, if we connect, we see that the circle is very small, from the transfer of religious purpose, to the financing of capital companies in the hands of the Roman Catholic Church. And in support of my words, or just as a complement of words, colleague Potrč, the number is 1,372. In short, it has its property in the land cadastre with 1,372 different names of the Roman Catholic Church. If that seems normal to you, it's your business. We don't think it's normal. Especially when an activity is hidden in such an untransparent way. And we can safely say that if someone acts intransparency, it is a specific religious community within our country. And we can also further develop from this that this lack of transparency is rewarded by the state. It rewards with additional unwarranted funding. Why do I hope to speak with the unwarranted? Because he is above us, the Government of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the separation of the state and the church. Do not talk about the need for religious community or religious community, however, to be financed. I am not talking about the fact that they must be financed from as much resources as the new government is trying to do, I apologize, not the new government, but the current government, to introduce into the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia. And let me be allowed to conclude. We are introducing a source of funding under the Religious Freedom Act. We are introducing a source of funding within the framework of the law before us today, i.e. the law on income. In the past, you have introduced a resource under denationalisation procedures. This government introduces a resource in the financing of religious communities under the interest on denationalisation securities. Ladies and gentlemen, every day you introduce new funding. Is that the reward for doing this untransparent work? Can you imagine that this would be one economic entity and that the state would reward it so much? Of course it's not in our country. In the National Party, of course, we ask you, insofar as you still consider the Constitution and the constitutional provisions to be the highest category of orders in our society, to support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u174	I would like to answer this constant question of the financial implications of my colleague, but I do not get an answer. But I would like to say about our amendment that our amendment certainly has no financial implications beyond what the government has to find, because it is 0.5% of the income, and it has to be whatever it is, it will not be, but we do not get an answer. Although I am asked a number of questions about this article, which is newly introduced and where I do not know how to explain this good intentions of the government, it will help me to form a form instead of me, fill out a form and I will object. I do not know whether it is a contribution or a recognition of the functional illiteracy of citizens and citizens, beneficiaries or debtors of payment or how. But yet, these are just some things that will show up and that people who want to know more about this 0.5% chance of a donation are also asking me. Who will make the list, how will they know how this will be taken into account? The question is, therefore, great and it is likely that it would be good to answer this question, which is also linked to the withdrawal of the coalition amendment to delete paragraph 3 of this Article. The question is, as you can see, quite a lot. However, I would like to argue with the answer that it can be understood that the current Article 142 doctrine also allows the inclusion of all those whom we are talking about by the Social Democrats that they can be found there in the fourth line, where there are other purposes carried out within the framework of the activities of the residents of Slovenia. Of course, because public interest will have to be demonstrated to societies, it will be up to ministers to determine whether they exercise public interest or not or act in the public interest or not, so that the government in any case takes the final decision whether something is recognised as a public interest or not. However, I would like to say that if the Government felt that it was necessary to list humanitarian purposes and firefighters, we have said, and then disabled, charitable, ecological, cultural, religious purposes, I do not see why we could not list some others if we happen to have in four laws the names of different entities or types in this package. I don't understand why one of them would be mentioned elsewhere. I do not remember that in other places firefighters would be mentioned - well, because they are not now under that name, but they are intended to protect against natural and other disasters, and they are not mentioned elsewhere. However, it would probably be only good if we decided to name something, if this paragraph "for generally useful purposes under this Article is counted" and then listed - should be listed consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Contrary to my colleague Majda Potrata, I welcome the change that will make it no longer necessary for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to meet the tax forecast. And I think that Mrs Pate's nostalgia after fulfilling the tax forecast is a lonely case and that people will be happy with these changes so that they will no longer have to meet their tax forecasts. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned, I'd say the following. In addition to what the Secretary of State has already said that all these activities are already covered by the Article's dictatorship, I would also point out that the sport activity mentioned in this amendment is already explicitly described in the article, so that in this case sports activity would be duplicated if this amendment were adopted. It's probably about recklessness and error. As for the other activities listed, I also agree with the State Secretary's explanation that they are already covered in the dictatorship. Even if they had covered all the activities, they would probably have missed out and in any case it would be necessary to continue the article with the dictatorship "and other purposes carried out within the framework of the activity" and so on. And it seems to me that the dictatorship is quite appropriate covers everything, including what the Social Democrats are proposing. The point is that all these activities must be generally useful activities, i.e. activities to finance generally beneficial purposes. I don't think there's any particular need to explicitly write that down, because there would still be something left that wouldn't be written down. As far as the second proposed amendment is concerned, it seems to me that there is a certain misunderstanding of the content and purpose of this 142. As I said earlier, there must be a generally useful purpose for which this activity is financed from 0.5% of the income. Of course, all these activities listed here must also include doing in the public interest or being charitable. If they are charitable, they are also in the public interest, and if we are talking about religious activities, not the activities of the church, as is repeatedly repeated, we are talking about religious activities. The church is an institution, and one institution, which, of course, also carries out religious activities, is quite significant in Slovenia. So we are talking about a religious activity that carries out an activity, a generally beneficial activity in the public interest, or a charity. And I see no reason why this particular activity, which is generally beneficial, which is in the public interest which is charitable, would be excluded from the fact that each individual could voluntarily allocate that share to him, even if he so wishes, but does not want any other activity that performs the same purpose. We are talking about an activity that is in the public interest, which is charitable and so on. If a religious activity is such that it pursues this purpose, why would it be excluded, since a charitable activity is in the general interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Do not understand the content of this Article or, in particular, of a general interest. You know, when I wanted to clarify what this government represents for a general purpose, I asked the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Culture, at the beginning of my term, I think I went in line, in short, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what I think is a generally useful purpose. And I got a clear answer -- a hand to the heart, more or less, it's about religious activities or organizations under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church. You can take a look at this, colleague Kovacič, also in Lotus Notees, the network of the National Assembly, under the answers to my questions. By the way, we have already talked about the inadmissible repeatedly, double financing of the Roman Catholic Church. It is unacceptable and sad that the government does not have such data because the data was published by the media. And when I spoke at the previous meeting about this data, about the property of the Roman Catholic Church, which has over 100 billion tolars of property today. At the time, I was marked or my speech on these specific numbers by a representative of the government coalition was marked as hate speech. This is an ugly policy of this government or government coalition. And allow me another matter which I have also raised at the meeting of my mother's working body, and I believe that Mr. Shircelj will nod on me. At that time, I have raised another unacceptable one in the framework of the existing 142nd Article - I will say - of a widely-argued dictatorship. This is the third paragraph, which states that the Government shall establish a more detailed method of implementing paragraph 1 of this Article and shall publish a list of beneficiaries of grants under this Article. The list of beneficiaries is unknown. You were not familiar at the time, Mr Shircelj, and to this day we have not received this list or more detailed information. At that time, I said that in our country there are huge, including in the area of the civil sphere, societies or organisations that meet these roughly framed criteria. At that time, I also highlighted my scepticism, which is conditioned or which arises on the basis of the invitation of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of May this year. In the context of co-financing or co-financing programmes, a large part was collected by generally beneficial organisations under the auspices or under the RCF. Therefore, what we are proposing in the Slovenian National Party would be so much more meaningful that we also avoid such voluntary decisions by the Government in forming a single list of beneficiaries for income grants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u180	My God, how many words for empty nothing for not knowing matter. You don't know who the legal entities are. They speak of the Roman Catholic Church, which is the land book owner of real estate, I understand that, but then there is such a wide debate on this ignorance, which I do not understand, even by a colleague who has just discussed. The Roman Catholic Church is not a legal entity. The Roman Catholic Church is not the property owner, the Roman Catholic Church is not the property owner, but it is the owner or owner of the diocese, various monasteries, various orders, parishes, branch churches, etc. That is also probably why I do not know the answer by the government why there are so many legal entities that are taxable. I know the cases and allow me, colleague Tavšev, colleague of Potrč and colleague of Peca, that if you choose to donate 0.2; 0.5% - say - culture, ecology. A colleague from the Social Democratic Party also told scientific research, allowing me to decide that I will donate this 0.5% to the order of the subversive church - let's say - on the Nanos of St. Hieronics. You must have been one of them, not the Roman Catholic Church. I will donate this money, and I hope that the parishional Podnanos, which performs with this branch church at Nanos, will also be on this list, which will be determined by the government, that it is justified to receive this donation of 0.5% of my personal income. However, I am always more confident that this debate will go this way in order to support one of the proposals of this amendment. You know why? In order to open this article and to return this article to the basic text, which is, it was very narrow, prepared by the Government at first reading. And she talked about public interest and charity. But then we also expanded the opposition and the position, and we said, let's put in political parties, let's put in unions, put in this one, and there was a solution to this article, which was then adopted by various amendments on the parent's working body. And now we're talking and opening and writing, I don't know how many. I am expecting, and therefore I myself have proposed on the working body to possibly delete this third paragraph for some of the reasons cited by some debaters. However, we have assessed, however, that it would be right, as a result of this withdrawal of the coalition amendment, to delete this third paragraph precisely for the reason that the rules of the game will be laid down by publishing a list and how we will enforce it. And that's the end of it. I am also looking forward to the future revenue forecast for 20006 which I will be doing in 2007, with only two or three hooks made and then signed, but not with about two or three hours of reading instructions on how to fill out the form and then going into one two or three villages. You know, since I was in one of those jobs before people called me and asked Jozek to come this year, we didn't know before, and now we don't even know how to fill out the income form. And for that, thank you very much for this simplification of future income forms. That is why I will not support either amendment to Article 142.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the debate, we have two replicas. First of all, it's Mrs. Žginer Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Just to clarify, we have received a response to the fear I have raised under Article 142, paragraph 3. We have come to the point that these resources will be used to build or repair churches. It's not fair, it's really not fair based on the data I mentioned earlier. Allow me, I am very afraid that this article does not contribute to or pursue a government objective that the matter will be greatly simplified in the context of the declaration of income. He won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you. And my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you. Allow a replica of my colleague Bajc. Of course, individual institutions that are more or less mysteriously organised can be defined in one way or another. Probably, perhaps even true, the theory of the naive, with which colleague Bajc has the power to talk about an institution that plays with or has the churches on the hill. But reality is completely different. Far from this so-called hill church, we are talking about the richest economic entity in the Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about an economic operator operating on a financial market operating on a telecommunications market that operates or is a carrier of primary industry in the Republic of Slovenia. I want you to compare everything to a church on a hill. And allow me yet how humiliatingly you say nothing a whole and a few percent of your income. Do you know how much this carries out annually, looking through the entire "income" in the previous year of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the number followed by nine zeros. That's not a million, that's not a thousand, we're talking billions, and 0.5% is the amount that's talking about billions. What are we following in the National Party? We are only pursuing this objective in order not to legitimize multiple financing for certain economic or for your economic operators on a hill. If we have one law, let it be in its defined funding, not that it is as untransparent funding as assets and the answer to assets, I have quoted you earlier. Let us pour once and for all citizens and citizens of pure wine so that we can know who has something when we, of course, present it with financial assets every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Let us go back to the debate track and Mr Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President! It has been quite clear to me that, in fact, this National Assembly adopts the laws of the government, which are also unconstitutional. The government is essentially forcing such laws to be passed. One of these will be the one, considering that in fact the church is set apart from the state. General. A useful purpose is not only in the essence of churches. Why she's here, you know, who also have direct ties to the Vatican. The fact is, in fact, it would also be a useful thing for the poor, to care for the young, to take away their right to housing a little earlier, to the unemployed, which is 100,000, and many others could be listed. Of course, Mr Bajc does not know the difference between what is a large, small, medium-sized enterprise. I claim that the Roman Catholic Church is a large company, but of course it has various branches such as bishops, monasteries, vineyards, forests, etc., stock exchanges and other things to list. Mr. Bajc, you'll have to go to school.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. You can have the replica, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. That's a lot of, I don't know, ignorance. Having an affair with the Vatican. Mr. Pece, do you know what the Vatican is? The Vatican is one country on this Earth and to report to the Minister that it has some connections, but you know this is not to say anything. About the big, little subjects, I didn't talk about it, and because I don't want to delay it, and then I applied again when I spoke, let me decide, I was only talking about my 0.5% income at the time, so I can give them to whom I want. My colleague Peca, I am sure that these 0.5%, which you will give up, will certainly not be for religious purposes, and even less for, as I said, the Church of St. The Hironim, which is a cultural monument. For this reason, I think that it is justified to get this 0.5% of my retirement work, which will not be dealt with or which will not be included in the tax base in the coming or any year, would be intended to devote this money or money.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Just a little while longer, viewers and viewers will think that we are discussing the Vatican Agreement. However, we are discussing 142 articles and two amendments. Well, Mr Pece already has a procedural proposal, perhaps in my spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you for your kindness for allowing me a procedural proposal. Comrade Bajc, who did you replicate? You've replicated after the implementation of your colleague Lucky Friend. However, you could probably know the rules of procedure so that you know that you have now gravely violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when you have performed the replica to me. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know any family ties within the government or your personals, and - hand to heart - I don't even care. But just like, say, information to others, there are quite a few ministers of the Slovenian government in the so-called Maltese Knights Society. That's not far, is it, from that story you always deny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u191	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u193	Mr Vice-President, given that your fellow Vice-President has gravely abused the Rules of Procedure and has not made a procedural proposal at all, I suggest that you procedurally remind him that, if not as a Member, as Vice-President of this Assembly, he should adhere to the Rules of Procedure and not abuse it as he did this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much for the suggestion. If I wanted to use the funds available to me under the Rules of Procedure to calm Members and Members, I would do so more or less for most of my time. However, I ask that we return the personal debate to the level of debate on the amendment and 142. Mr. Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm going to talk about the amendment, but first I have to touch on the fulfillment of tax returns or forms. I believe that, instead of us, or instead of our citizens, the state will do so so that we will not put them in some position to do what they are able to do. I think it's going to be a big advantage for a lot of people in our country. What has happened now, according to current legislation, that you had to recalculate and you could get very, very different results, what you're going to give and what you're going to get on the basis of this forecast or what you're going to give to the country is sad. If you didn't count, you could've been at a great loss, but if you've calculated well and you've been able to take advantage of all the holes, you've done a lot of good. And I think if we put an end to this, we'll do a lot. On the other hand, as far as this 142nd article is concerned, I am glad that today I have come to some new knowledge that the religious purpose is the Roman Catholic Church. To this day, I did not know that the religious purpose was the Roman Catholic Church, for all we talk about in this amendment was the Roman Catholic Church. I must say that I personally take the debate of the representatives of the national party really as a bit of an impatient debate. I would understand if we were to advocate any additional entity to which Slovenians and Slovenians would have the opportunity to devote a fraction of their income to the State. And I'm going to say a little mean, and I can see that there's also quite a part of the Slovenian "fowsia", "why would they have anything else in the back if there was nothing else to go on." As far as church property is concerned, as is the case with these legal and unlawful entities. I've worked in an area where we've dealt with real estate all the time. And where we ran into church institutions in our work, we had no problems. However, we have encountered a lot of problems and, unfortunately, there has been a lot of confusion in the property owned by the State, and until recently, it has been written on various SISEs, and on various establishments, including Belgrade, and not to say anywhere else. I am pleased that citizens have a choice to direct one of these small amounts of income to a particular entity. And I must say that the amendment that would have drawn one of these subjects is certainly not going to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Check-in is on. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you. It is indeed a warning in place that in our amendment it is a sports summary because it is already in 142, I think, it can be an editorial correction. However, if we are satisfied that other purposes cover everything, then the question is whether the second paragraph is entirely necessary because it is already in paragraph 1 about the general benefits of the purpose of the speech. But as we say, if we name it, let's name everything. Because if we let one go, the question is, will anyone know that it is necessary for him to be able to choose it? I wonder where it will be published and when an individual will be able to decide who the government has appointed as the corresponding addressee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I can't support this amendment myself, because you just agree to freedom. And why wouldn't a man have the right to give himself to someone who thinks that money will be the best spent? Some have different viewpoints, others have different viewpoints, and because we live in society, we do well to understand each other. It's so right to keep it the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u201	That's what some people call nice, that's justice. You just have to be aware that this is a source of funding. A source of public funding that could otherwise be allocated to others. And this source of funding is just another additional non-constitutional source of funding, and you speak or mark it as - I think you said - a fouschi. No, it's about justice. This is about fairness in the use of public funds and these public funds constitute or represent the resources of citizens and citizens. Therefore, we cannot and must not target only one user. And the fact is that this government is a major part of these resources, at least to the part that it can direct, is directed towards the most powerful religious community, and this is the Roman Catholic Church. It is true, however, that at the same time it must be stressed that, in the parliamentary procedure, you also have a law on religious freedom and that you are already talking about other entities or activities being defined as one of those who will have access to this source of funding. Gentlemen and ladies of the ruling majority! You've got it all cleavage, haven't you? Any proposal we make, run into infertile soil, any proposal we make, discard it, without discussion, take place on the home working body or anywhere else. Once again, if you want to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and if you are aware of what the basic source of budget power is, that it is our citizens and citizens, not then that the source is directed exclusively to one religious entity or one body performing religious activity, while from behind - as I have already said - speculation. In the financial market, he deals with telecommunications, not selling it with the illusion of a church on a hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much. One last Mr. Testen. Excuse me, was it a replica? Excuse me, sir. You just can't have a replica because you haven't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u203	I was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u204	Yeah, but you don't have a replica because you haven't discussed it in this circle. The replica is always limited. We can look at the list, but you're not here, so wait until the next round, and you'll have a chance to discuss it. Please, I'd still like to try and run the meeting. Thank you very much. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have once again come to the opportunity for taxpayers to make their own decisions about one small fraction of our income to which we will devote it. I have already said this in the general debate. I think that's right. But I think he's too afraid of those who are very afraid of how much the Roman Catholic Church will receive from this title. If I listen to the debate today, given the number of opponents and the fact that this list is very widely distributed to a few thousand users, then I think that there will be no major effect from this title, but that it will be very widely distributed to a number of beneficiaries. Mr Pece mentioned how generous this government is to the interest of denationalising beneficiaries. I would like to tell him that this government has imposed 50% of the interest on the denationalising beneficiaries, but that there were no previous interest rates. So I think there's been one progress made here in the direction you're defending. To talk about billions, about - I don't know - what numbers, 0.5% of income in Slovenia represents about two billion after some rough calculations. And now, if there's a few thousand users, then you can imagine how much that's going to be. There are also political parties present, sports organisations that are very large in Slovenia. So I don't think there's gonna be any special benefits here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much. How boring would it be in Parliament if there were no Article 69 or procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just taking advantage of what the rules of procedure offer me. I would ask if, given that the list of beneficiaries is clearly known by the ruling coalition, despite the claim that it is not yet ready and is not made to stop the meeting for so long that the opposition Members get this list, which contains thousands and some beneficiaries, so that we can see how much money is actually going to go and who is on that list, whether they are really sports societies. I believe they are, but they're probably named after some saint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that most Members would lynch me if I put such a proposal to the vote, so that I will continue the meeting. I'm also giving the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members, honourable President! I would like to answer once again some questions or dilemmas that have arisen in relation to Article 142 of the Income Act. In this regard, I would like to confirm that in the event that all taxpayers will use this donation to give some institution, society and so on, the total amount will be 2 billion tolars. Thus, 2 billion tolars of tax may be earmarked for various purposes by taxpayers. This is a simple calculation based on 2005 data. Once again, if we look at what these institutions are, I stress that they are those who act in the public interest. After all, these are all institutions that are established, organised under the law on institutions. [[So anyone can be organized, we have a special law on institutions]] . These are some of the societies that are at the Ministry of the Interior. And these societies, according to a grave estimate of about 2,000, which means that at least the Ministry of Finance here, the government had no one in particular before it, so that it should actually get a certain amount of money. We are talking only about public interest and various activities, from sports, scientific, cultural, religious and so on. And there was no particular interest between us in favoring anyone with this article. I would also like to answer the question where these institutions will be published. These institutions will be published in the Official Journal, as well as on the Internet, to facilitate access by taxpayers to know how part of the money can be withdrawn. So from this angle, things are clear. And it's about funding. In our view, when certain companies receive money from certain institutions through the tax administration, it is precisely our view that the transparency of funding is increased. In fact, the transparency of funding so that, in fact, the tax administration knows how much a particular company or institution is, in short, the one on that list gets the money will actually be the information as to how much it receives from that source and how much it can also get from other sources. In our view, this transparency is being financed by such a solution, and it is increasing. After all, in the opposite sense, such a solution was already today, since the taxpayers also had the tax relief to devote, it is said, to benefit part of their money for religious purposes, for cultural purposes, etc. and used tax relief to do so. But here it's just a reverse system, a reverse method to make a donation, not a tax relief. After all, this is also stated in other laws. Here's to the financial impact. I think I also said, 2 billion, and from this point of view, there are other financial effects, if we talk about them, I think I've already said something, when any financial impact comes, we'll look at that, too, so I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary of State, you can turn off the microphone, please. Thank you. Nobody. Nobody. I then conclude the debate on 142 articles and amendments and open the debate on 154th Article and amendments to SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? As I can see, no one. I conclude the debate on this Article. And I am putting to the debate the 158.a. article and once again the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. Amendment of the SNS Group of Members and amendment of the SD Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm going to formalize this invitation. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Since I don't have much time, allow me just for a moment. I will thank the representatives of the ministry, the representatives of the government, not least the other institutions that are important in this decision. It is said that special relief for mentally and physically affected children will be taken into account for 2005 also. In doing so, I would like to say that we have joined this solution in the Slovenian National Party, offered a solution and also wanted to cross the policy boundaries of an important decision, an important solution for physically and mentally affected children. And the coalition MPs played an ugly role. If that's your Christian morality, then God.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! With this Article 58a, we want to eliminate the illogicality resulting from the receptions of previous periods. In fact, for the mentally disabled after the age of 18, relief was lifted, which I find extremely irresponsible. Following the current regime, relief was only valid until the age of 18 and the amendment to Article 18 abolished it. More. This relief is being introduced for all affected, regardless of age, and is being repaired a year ago. This is the case for the financial year already settled for 2005 and the year 2006 which will still be accounted for. In the second paragraph of this proposed Article, the tax authority is allowed to use a special remedy for decisions already issued in 2005, which means that those who have already received a tax decision will benefit from this relief and will be able to recover it and the tax administration will give them a replacement decision. I think that this contribution is in the right direction and we in the Slovenian Democratic Party will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you very much. And Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I am pleased that this time, a large majority of the groups of Members have tabled the same substantive amendment and that an agreement will be reached for children or mentally disturbed over the age of 18 for 2005 and 2006. And since, in view of the end, it is probably my final debate, I am indeed asking the representatives of the government: Will they explain the material effects of the proposed changes or do they feel that the National Assembly is not worth this, even though there is such a formal obligation under our rules of procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I see that no one wants to discuss and conclude the debate anymore, and I am putting to the final debate Article 159 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. Now it's clear that this will be before 9:40 p.m. Before I break this point, I'm giving the procedural option more mags. Gypsies. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u217	President, I think that what has just happened is that, after several times of discussion by both SD Members and LDS Members, I think it would be correct that, in the light of the business provisions of Article 235, the Government's representatives have been in the National Assembly, it would be important for the government to present to us the financial effects of what we are going to adopt today, or that the government should simply tell us that there is no answer to the effect of the amendments adopted by the ruling coalition in the course of the debate on the Finance Committee. The meeting of the Finance Committee was held on 12.10. i.e. 12 days ago. We expected that today, however, in the course of the debate, the government has a famous model - some of whom you spoke very positively - and that it will calculate with this model what are the effects of the amendments that were adopted on the parent's working body on 12.10. That's not what was said. Then there were some amendments, where we heard from individual debaters how individual effects are, but to get a comprehensive assessment by the Slovenian public, how much there is now either a consequence for the state budget in plus or minus, and that is not what the government representatives have told us. That's why I gave it procedurally before you finished this point. Once we go to the vote one evening, then we know that only Members can debate the vote, that the government cannot even speak. So my procedural proposal is next, Mr President. I propose that before today's vote, the government will provide us with written information, which can, of course, do what the effects of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the mother's working body are. In order to make it easier for us to adopt an additional amendment or not tonight in the debate, we will know the integrity of the effects. I expect if the government doesn't know how to write this to us, let the minister tell us. Or, if they're not able to write, let the minister tell us that or put it down until the government has calculated it for us. We accept the most important of all - according to the government - reform law. He's changed three times in the last month. Finally, it changed with a change in the parent’s working body and should now be heard what the effects that have been adopted mean. Are these still public finances? [[...]] My procedural proposal is that the National Assembly vote or that you, of course, mediate such a will to the Government's national assembly, the government also hears this when we talk about it, that before, at the latest before the evening vote, they will inform us of the effects of 12.10.2006, so 12 days ago, of the amendments adopted and then of course of the individual amendments. That's what I think would be right. If, of course, a simple word can be given back to the government, and I will not object to it, but let us of course give the opportunity for the government to explain it to us, but not that it will remain - we are in a direct transfer to another programme - to the Slovenian public not knowing what the effects of what the ruling coalition has added since this Law on Income was adopted. I now predict that I expect the same information when taxing legal persons' income. It is the duty of the government and therefore the executive power exists. Please kindly, if such a proposal can be accepted in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Of course, the government has heard the proposal and will decide whether or not to comply with it. But since the Secretary of State, despite the fact that we have concluded the debate on the individual articles and amendments, has nevertheless applied to the debate, I tend to allow it in particular, because it is probably a matter of commenting on a procedural proposal, if no one is opposed. If anyone objects to this proposal, then I will finish this point. But since I see that there is no objection, I would still give the Secretary of State a word saying that, of course, after he has finished, I will not give any replicas and no more procedural proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I thank you for giving me your word once again and for, of course, telling me the financial effects that relate to the changes or additions to the bill to the income. Here, of course, if we are talking about a special relief for pensioners over 65 years of age, and if we are talking about this relief and special relief for children, we are talking about a third, fourth and subsequent child, then of course we are talking about the financial impact of two billion tolars. This is within the framework of global finances and that is what these amendments actually mean. In connection with the amendments relating to agricultural taxation, and where in fact - I will say - agriculture is still taxed in three possible ways, in a way that the taxpayers keep records of income and expenditure on the one hand if they decide to do so. On the other hand, we have taxpayers who will be taxed on the basis of cadastral income, and then we have arrangements where taxpayers can be taxed on the basis of predetermined fixed expenditure. At the same time, it is also important to draw attention to those taxable persons who are subject to a different regime. Here I mean winemakers, olive farmers and beekeepers, that's what agriculture says. We do not expect an increase or a reduction in fiscal revenues, which means that there is an assessment of neutrality, it is said, of the neutrality of these solutions, which will, of course, be ensured by a different way of calculating cadastral income. Other amendments that would have a significant impact on fiscal revenues here, of course, I do not estimate that there would have been any amendments other than those that were of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u220	Please, that's nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u221	Minimum interest, if we're talking about interest, is minimal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u222	Have you completed your duties as Secretary of State? Thank you very much. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGAL REVENUE Tax, EPA 1067-IV. We have two hours and 35 minutes to discuss the bill, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for consideration. I therefore give the floor to her representative for further explanation, probably to the State Secretary of Mags. Wide. Please, your word is behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The package of laws relating to tax reform also contains a proposal for a law on corporate income tax governing taxation or tax treatment of legal persons' incomes. The proposal for a law is developed and competitive and includes changes in tax rates, tax bases, tax incentives and administrative simplifications. Several comments were made in the procedure for the consideration of the draft law, which led to some amendments. With regard to the revaluation and write-off of the claims set out in Article 21, due to the predictability of public revenue and the support for the direction of operations of a good and prudent economic operator, an additional limit was added in addition to the existing one, which provides that the revaluation expenditure must not exceed one percent of the taxable revenue of the taxpayer. In view of the need to enforce a more favourable tax treatment of profits, or their exemption from the tax base in the event of the confiscation of equity shares in venture capital companies established in accordance with the law governing venture capital companies, a new paragraph 6 of Article 25 was added. As State aid will only enter into force after the approval of the State aid scheme by the European Commission. In order to facilitate the operation of banks, in particular those that are domestically owned and cannot benefit from the 72nd Article of the Law implementing the European Union Directive on taxation in respect of interest payments and licensing between related companies from different Member States of the European Union, an exemption was added in Article 70 on the payment of the tax deduction for interest paid by banks to other financial institutions. In part, with the increase in the depreciation rate of equipment, vehicles and machinery from 15% to 20%, comments were also taken into account regarding the depreciation rates set out in Article 33 of the Act. Taking that into account, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law, including the proposed amendments, should be supported and that, if the conditions laid down in Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met, the State Assembly should carry out a third examination of the draft law already at that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I therefore ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 21st urgent meeting on 12.10., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law on corporate income tax. We received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made certain comments to a certain article, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, then also material, proposals for amendments to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Supervisors, the Chamber of Economic Affairs, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Association of Investment Funds Management Companies. Then there are amendments to qualified candidates, such as the Social Democrats' Group, the Liberal Democracy Club and the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of the Retired. The discussion focused on the elimination of investment aid in tangible and intangible fixed assets and on the basis of the calculation of the tax, a real depreciation rate which is allowed to be carried over or taken into account in tax bases as a cost. The debate of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia mainly referred to certain proposals for reducing or increasing the depreciation rates. Finally, it was decided that the increased depreciation rate for vehicle equipment and machinery should be increased from 15% to 20% and that the other proposals should not be accepted by the committee. Furthermore, there was a discussion on the abolition of relief in the case and intangible assets, where government representatives argued that such reliefs did not give the expected start-up in the investment sense. However, conservation is facilitated for investment in R & D. There have also been some comments given that we have two different arrangements. One applies to investment firms, the other to mutual funds. Finally, a certain group of amendments was adopted and would not repeat these numbers. They were adopted and included in the amended bill before you. We suggest that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at the 21st meeting of the assembly, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving immediately to the debate on several articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 October of this year. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS, SNI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Please sign up. The first one has the word mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u227	The Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is a law that will significantly shape the economic situation in Slovenia. We ourselves estimate that, in particular, the need to share a small group of taxpayers, a large tax gift, the government has decided to keep the tax on the income of legal persons a very harsh tax on the economy. If we compare the taxation of the economy in 2006 and the projected taxation in 2007 and 2008 when this law is already in force, then we can see that the effective tax rate will be significantly higher than it was in the period 2000-2004. At the time, the tax decision was approximately 12.3% effective, and now according to our data, the fifth tax rate is close to 20%. This is best shown by figures in the 2004 budget, about 124 billion in 2006, if I am not mistaken, 226 billion or 100 billion more taxation of the economy than two years ago. Mr Janša then continues to explain that we now have the lowest burden of the economy. That's just not true. Taxation of the economy. The effective tax rate has increased significantly. For this reason, although it is a good intention in this law to reduce the general rate from 25 to 20, we regret that this is happening in four years. We therefore believe that this law does not allow the economy to be burdened. This law does not increase the competitiveness of the economy, but by a number of solutions in the law it prevents significantly accelerated economic development. Finally, this is confirmed by the very predictions of economic growth when this law is enforced. Economic growth in 2008 will be 20% lower than in 2006. That is why we tried to return to the law in the debate on the working body, and unfortunately we were unable to return to the law a significant relief. In fact, one of the most important reliefs that this law definitively abolishes, since there was still an existing law, makes 10% easier for equipment. We wanted and proposed a relief for equipment that would if it were investments in companies in those parts of Slovenia that were less developed to make this relief higher. This was rejected on the parent’s working body. That is why this article is closed and therefore a pure fiction when some, with the Prime Minister in charge and the Minister, explained yesterday: "You will be able to correct our mistake in the second reading." We can't. One of the few amendments to improve the economic situation of Slovenian companies is the amendment we are proposing. And this is the amendment to change the depreciation rates. The characteristics of the law on corporate income tax are simply that the abolition is facilitated by the provision of equipment to make it easier for us to take up first jobs, the abolition makes it easier for those who are hard to work. And strangely - last week the Prime Minister was visiting Finland to discuss how to increase investment in research and development - the ease of employment of doctors of science has been lifted. Therefore, one of the few facilitations, or one of the few options that the ruling coalition has rejected in the procedure, is, of course, through a dictatorship now on the phone of the acting Minister of Finance, all the amendments of the coalition, one of the few options is to change the depreciation rate. We estimate that it was wrong for the government to increase the tax base when it sought resources to finance a tax donation to a small group of taxpayers. Well, the tax base has increased by appropriately changing the depreciation rates to reduce depreciation. Therefore, we propose to increase the maximum annual depreciation rates to raise the maximum annual depreciation rates for construction buildings, including investment properties, from 3% back to 5% [[The government has reduced them from 5 to 3]] and that, contrary to the government's solutions, we do the same in the case of vehicle equipment and machinery, where we propose to raise this level instead of reducing it. Thus, the economy would be in the same position as it was in 2005 and 2006. And we're interested in the government's position on this amendment. We want to know why this amendment could not be supported. Is it really only because the members of the Liberal Democracy or something like that are proposing to colleagues from the SD or because the economy would be more competitive? I expect, of course, an appropriate response from the government, and I expect the support of Members of the ruling coalition, who, this time, will be able to discuss more substantively and also to vote more substantively in individual articles in order to ensure greater competitiveness of the economy. The proposed law doesn't do that. With the amendments and this amendment, which we propose, we are trying to fix this a little bit. However, it is clear that the whole tax reform has been carried out in order for the small group to receive a gift, which is paid in 2007 by the economy and in 2007 and in the following years with higher excise duties of the population in full and of course in the final, as we will obviously also experience, of course, all final consumers with higher VAT. That is why this is a poor reform and the weakness of this reform is most seen in the way in which the effective taxation of the economy has increased during the term of the government of Mr Janez Janša. I do not now explain that this is because this national assembly adopted a law on corporate income tax before joining the European Union, because we have gradually begun to abolish some of the benefits. Of course, this was important and this was the basis for economic growth. Of course, no one expected such a high spoil at the time. And since it's seized, it would be necessary to use it to relieve the economy. You do not do this, but share this money, as we have seen in the income law of some small groups, either denationalising beneficiaries or the richest Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens and citizens. I therefore propose, Members and Members, to vote in your conscience, to consider this amendment. This is one of the few ways to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Horvath, Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers! We also propose an increase in depreciation, equipment from 20% to 25% and facilities from 3% to 5%. The proposals are identical to the LDS proposal. The smart master and master, who is responsible and good, always strives to account for as much as possible high amortisation as possible, whether it is an entrepreneur or a country, especially where the country is also the owner of the economy to a large extent. This is all the more justified when it comes to technological obsolescence, which is increasing faster and in addition to technological equipment economic maintenance. An additional argument is that amendments have been rejected by the Committee in order to improve the content of this law and make it not only more friendly but, above all, more favourable for the economy. Amendments have been rejected, both in the facilitation of investment in the equipment we have proposed and in the proposal to immediately reduce the tax rate from 25% to 20%. The fact is, despite the fact that some improvements are being made by this law, this is far from what was expected in the economy, but what the government has, after all, announced with the reform and tax package. So this adoption of these amendments would bring at least a little closer to the government's own commitments. So, I propose and I hope that you will listen to these arguments and this amendment, one of them will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you very much. There is also a government representative, Mr Mag. Spread out. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! When the government proposed new depreciation rates in accordance with the Law on corporate income tax, it complied with the revised Slovenian accounting standards. It complied with international accounting standards and took into account company practice after all and found how much time it took for an individual company to actually replace the entire equipment. In doing so, both international accounting standards and Slovenian accounting standards, as well as government analyses and studies, state that we are talking about two types of depreciation rates or depreciation. Of course, there is something about construction works, for example, and another about construction works. In fact, the practice shows that construction works are longer than their lifetime. This led, of course, to a reduction in the depreciation rate from 5% to 3% and, on the other hand, to an increase in the life expectancy of parts of construction works, so it increased the depreciation rates in this part and actually excluded this equipment from this general definition of construction works and parts of construction buildings can be amortised by tax debtors by 6%. Similarly, parts of equipment and equipment, where the new item is under the current law, have been made. It is now possible to depreciate 33.3% of them, which means they can be depreciated within three years. In fact, the government here has examined the depreciation rates, of course it has also examined the life expectancy of individual basic assets, as well as real estate, and on this basis proposed to the National Assembly, of course, and assessed the appropriate rates of depreciation. On the basis of these depreciation rates proposed, which also improve the position of a taxable person under the corporate tax law, the government is of course assessing that it does not extend the tax base or increase the tax base, but is actually reducing it through these measures and other measures. Here it reduces it by allowing the taxpayer to benefit from the reservation, which thus far is not possible to comply with the accounting standards for the deterioration of the different accounting categories and thus shows the real situation in order to revalue the claims and effectively abolish double taxation both economically and legally. From this point of view, the government has also made the financial impact of this tax, and we cannot in any way impose that the effects of this legislation, which will enter into force in 2007, for which an account will be made in 2008, increase the burden on legal persons. According to the data available to the government, this legislation reduces the burden compared to 2006, by looking at an effective tax rate, it is also important to take into account the fact that we have a different tax base at an effective tax rate, as well as taking into account the share of the tax in total revenue. This is actually decreasing. Indeed, by reducing the rates from 25 to 23% in 2007 and to 20% by 2010, the efficient taxation of businesses is declining and the economy is burdened, which means: We cannot agree on the fact that, on this basis, corporate taxpayers are actually more taxed. Notwithstanding the fact that taxpayers are given favourable tax arrangements primarily in order to regulate capital gains when it comes to internationalisation of business when it comes to international competitiveness. These are actually arguments why the government cannot support or support or reject the adoption of those amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Milan Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And they've reactivated, presidents. Thank you very much. I think this device is complete nonsense. Picking up with your fast fingers, who's gonna press the button so we can talk, is totally unnecessary for me. I decided to come back again, because I have to ask the Secretary of State, because the Minister and I have already given up or he has given up on us, but I want to explain how he explains that, and now of course I want you to talk about comparable data, that in 2008 230 billion corporate tax revenues will be in public finances, and in 2004 there were 124, and then, indeed, we have 228 billion in 2006. But we both know these 228 billion, and the colleague on the right in particular, of course there are also some unique effects, mainly due to the cancellation of some reservations and so on. On the right basis, explain to me how, in fact, according to 2004 we have 90 billion, pardon, for 106 billion more taxes on legal persons' income. Explain to me how essentially the abolition, the total abolition of 10% of the aid for investment in equipment, which in our view was the main reason that in 2006 you have about 60 billion more revenue than you calculated, will be the total abolition of 10% of the investment relief [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u234	Go ahead, Mr Squeakl, because there has been a mistake and it was meant to stop you as a procedural question for three minutes. Here you go. I think something like this happened to your computer at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Look, Mr Vice-President, I really suggest that whoever invented these procedures began to complicate themselves in this mandate so that there will be no blame for any of the rules adopted in the previous mandate. We're talking about turn-off procedures, turn off the microphone, and so on, turn it off. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u236	Mr. Squeakle, you applied for an amendment debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u237	Yes, of course, but Mr. Chairman, the whole of Slovenia is watching, the Member was unable to speak because some computer was waiting for 30 seconds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u238	My absolute consent to the word. [[...]] Please, you have the floor to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you. Look, Mr President, you know I'm only talking about this amendment, but I wasn't allowed to talk about this amendment. Just to get back to the government question. The government said that if it compares 2008 to 2006, it is true that there are only 2 billion more taxes in 2008, but in 2006 they are in taxes, in effective taxation, even some unique events. If you eliminate these unique events, as now the country - for the Slovenian public - is taxing and Janšev's government is reaping taxes on 15-year booking in banks, in companies when we have saved 15 years with capital, this is now happily taxed. If you compare it to a comparable one, then I would ask you to explain what the effects of this law will be, especially the abolition of 10% of the investment relief. In 2004, we had a 20% relief, and then in 2005 and 2006, this fell to 10%, and despite this decline, we have a very high growth due to other effects. And if you can explain this to the Slovenian public in a comparable way, how will you reduce the effective taxation of the economy in 2008 and eliminate the one-off effects, I will be happy to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I would ask the other discussers, Mr Mikolić, Mr Veršnik, to re-apply when I say "please apply". Please. Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. See, as long as the new tax legislation has been in the process, and before that, we are listening to how the government is increasing VAT and since it is not in 2007 we have been silent about the 2007 increase, now we are talking about 2008. I think it is high time that we stop these things, get a little real and listen to what the government has to say, which has taken full responsibility for running this country and for managing politics. And I'm saying he's acting responsibly. It assumed this responsibility by beginning to abolish the tax on paid wages. Whoever introduced this tax, we all know. And this is the original sin of our abnormally high-taxed wages. The reduction in profit tax from 25 to 20%, such as the proposal in this law, I think this is the second step that will help improve businesses. Last but not least, the research and development facilitations, I am sure that companies will, I think, find almost everything in this package and will use this relief with their help. Don't be afraid, they're not naive enough not to be able to pull things off in a way that's good for them. Depreciation rates, we have heard the Secretary of State are in line with accounting standards and summarised by experience, according to the practice of the European Union, where we are involved and to which we want to compare ourselves. And I don't know why there are some suggestions here that are without a legitimate realistic basis. The effects of legislation are already and are visible in the reduction or in the effective rate that is falling from year to year. It is true, however, that it is not possible for the conduct of the economy to end things overnight with changes, with some revolutionary interventions, as it was, we have already considered in this National Assembly the proposal of a group to abolish the pay tax at once. These are irresponsible moves, and such moves will not be taken by our government and will not be. We speak, we listen to the committees, we listen here in Parliament, how the tax on profits increases. Nobody and never says that business in large companies, in those key companies, is responsible and that it is better than in the past not to finance various transfers to advertising, to propaganda outside the company for unnecessary reasons. Clearly, the tax base is increasing. And that's also why there's more tax than profit. And it is also right to say this, regardless of the fact that we find that the tax on income from year to year will also be reduced. I think the comments we're really listening to, I'd almost say, the sparrows are lurking out there, I hope, and I'm sure the responsible people are explaining these things so that virtually everyone can understand them and that this is the upheaval of ordinary demagogies and it's time to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. The reduction of the tax base from 25 to 23, certainly in 2007 and by 2010 to 20, is certainly a financial burden for the economy. Anyone who claims otherwise is misleading. The abolition, the gradual abolition of the pay tax is certainly a large financial burden or a major financial burden for the economy. As far as accounting for annual depreciation rates is concerned, I would say that this story, or this stick, has two ends. On the one hand, on the other hand, I advocate the fact that the higher percentage or the higher rate would be accounted for, is good, for this means that if I am now in the equipment, we can change the equipment as soon as possible. On the other hand, this also means that some product, that there is a service, with this calculated depreciation, has this certain price, which is certainly slightly higher and today we can ask ourselves how we are then competitive, because it is all about the competitiveness of our products, our services. After all, we can ask ourselves what this looks like in practice, how these companies account for or in the final phase calculate that they are competitive at the final stage or when it is necessary to replace that then there are also financial means to buy new equipment. And we know that in practice it looks different, it's happening differently. That is why I believe, what was also explained by the government, that the proposal for construction facilities, including investment properties, is 3%, and in particular equipment, vehicles and mechanisms 20%, what the government has proposed is, as has been said on the basis of experience, on the basis of the facts as used in practice. And he's doing it. Given these facts, I certainly cannot support this amendment today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan M. Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Don't say we're non-European. "European Textbook", Denmark - Immovable property, real estate, amortisation rate 5%. The LDS proposal for the highest annual depreciation rate on construction facilities "immovable property" is 5%. These are the suggestions. Of course, it's up to the gentlemen of the ruling coalition to decide whether to follow Denmark or to follow what the government is explaining to you. By the way, "European Textbook" is from the library of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You can go and borrow it sometime. What some here explain is pure deception. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that when the tax law was passed, the corporate income tax for 2005 and 2006 would be 164 billion. Therefore, in order to close the budget, you have talked about the need to raise VAT. No one at the Ministry of Finance, while it was the conservative Ministry of Finance, was eager to calculate a higher level of revenue. And there is more revenue, the revenue is 60 billion more in 2006, not because the economy would do better because Mr Janša would do it or they would do it, but because you are spending a 15-year reserve and the introduction of international accounting standards is based on more taxes, so this revenue is now 228 billion. Instead of accepting a pay-out tax in 2005 or the government not saying, "We will make this provision, we will either devote this additional tax to the immediate abolition of the pay-out tax or to things that will really increase research and development." No, no, no. These additional resources shall be given for a tax gift to non-essentials, for a tax gift to denationalising beneficiaries. As you saw earlier at the income tax, we had to abolish a number of reliefs to finance this tax gift. And then we get a tax on the income of legal persons. If you truly believe, then we should immediately drop the general rate from 25% to 20%. But you don't believe and you don't know what's going to happen to you in 2008. Because, of course, the opposition is now squeezing you and Janša has already said twice or for the hundredth time that he will not raise the VAT. We know how he'll finance it. From higher taxation of the economy. Therefore, of course, you do not want to accept our proposals for such an depreciation rate as they have in Denmark. Instead of really taking care of the competitiveness of the economy, taking care of the greater well-being of some, very narrow groups and, consequently, ladies from the Ministry of Finance, of course, the Office of Macroeconomic Analysis and Research estimates that this will result in a decline in economic growth. Yeah, well, the economy's more taxed, the economy's moving. Not only will individuals be sent abroad, but entire factories move abroad! Gorenje opened a factory in Valjev on Monday. And there'll be more. Therefore, if you want to maintain the same amortisation rates as they do in Denmark, and not to quote the whole book, then accept our proposal. Not talking about us fooling around here. Deception is very simple: Mr Janša lied when he said on 3.10. about television that the economy was burdened. That's not true! In 2008, at the end of his term of office, the economy will pay twice as much taxes as at the end of the previous government's mandate - 246 billion in 2007 compared to 124 billion. That's the data. That is why we can now discuss international standards and Slovenian accounting standards and what else. Of course, we can discuss this, and we can discuss many things. The main question is whether you want the Slovenian economy to be less effectively taxed or not. That's the basic question. Therefore, as I said earlier, please give us a comparison, eliminate the single effects of 2006 and 2007 and tell us how effective taxation will be reduced in 2008 when you eliminate the single effects, according to the year 2000, of course, in the last year of the previous mandate. That would be a correct comparison. But not to make a comparison for that year, which happens to suit you, even years that cannot be compared as are actually compared with apples and pears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. A government representative shall have the floor, Mr Mag. Spread out. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! If we are talking about individual elements of corporate taxation, we can say here that the depreciation rate in Denmark is 5%. At the same time, we find that the tax rate in Denmark has been 28% since 1.1.2005, before that rate was 30%. This, of course, means, according to the Government, that it is very difficult to compare only one element in the tax system, but it is also necessary to compare other elements, both in terms of valuation, depreciation rates, rates, exemptions, and so on. And on this basis, appropriate indicators, such as the share of tax in revenue, such as an effective tax rate and so on, can also be obtained. Thus, data for Austria show that the buildings are amortised by 2%, 2.5% or 3%, but also different, and have lower depreciation rates in Germany. However, I want to say here, not that individual elements are now being compared, but I want to say that corporate taxation is being studied and interpreted in different ways. After all, matters are very important in the details of tax legislation, which can also determine whether a country has a more competitive tax system or a less competitive tax system. If we are talking about the competitiveness of the tax system, I would like to say that the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons eliminates a number of anomalies that relate mainly to double taxation, both in dividends, in the payment of dividends, such as double taxation, for example, once taxed by the Income Act, and on the other hand this is a tax-free expenditure, which means that one and the same thing is taxed twice. From this point of view, the drafter of the law, the government, in particular the fact that we entered the EU on 1 May 2004, had a tax area where we can talk about the competitiveness of tax systems. A taxable person may choose between different tax systems and, after all, have the freedom to actually set up a company in one of the 25 countries. This is also how we have made the taxation of capital gains a more competitive system, such as in Austria. At least we have given the conditions more competitive, but we have also simplified the system so much that the taxpayers cannot have too much costs with this, and in particular we have increased legal certainty. With regard to the effects of tax legislation and financial impact comparisons, I would like to highlight the following. In 2004, it had a financial impact of 124 billion on the basis of previous legislation. On the basis of the legislation adopted in May 2004, which entered into force in 2005, this financial impact increased significantly, namely medicine 2006 to 226 billion and is estimated at 230 billion on the basis of the financial inflows method, to be more in 2008. Of this, 40 billion goes to the expense of revaluation of claims, what has been said, but this will actually be returned by 2010, which in other words means that the effects of the 2005 tax legislation adopted in 2004 will show up by 2010 and then 40 billion will actually be reimbursed. These financial effects, which have been made here, are also made on the basis of general growth indicators and are also based on the financial effects of individual legislation. These are, of course, assessments. We analyze each month, each year separately on financial impacts. From this point of view, the data show that companies will be taxed if compared to 2005, compared to 2006, less in 2010, less in 2009, less in 2008 and less in 2007, meaning, in other words, that under existing legislation, this actually means a decommissioning of the economy. Of course, here is the question of the economy, how will someone do business, how will they actually succeed in their business? From this point of view, I would point out once again that the government is pursuing the objective of greater competitiveness and, of course, greater legal certainty for legal persons or taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Bojan Starman, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. I have spent a number of years in the economy, but I can say that the whole package of measures we have been implementing in recent years significantly improves the conditions of management. One part of the results already show up in significantly better performances in our businesses in 2005 and 2006. Much of the increase in revenue from this title is precisely due to the improved results of our companies. One part is indeed due to revaluation or other accounting standards. I would say that there are actually these debates, which we are listening to, how the situation is getting worse, that they are completely unfounded. There are several reasons, many aspects, that we are downgrading here, that I think we are completely comparable to Europe. Speaking of which, specifically, the amendment I have on my desk. I think these are some real levels. We know that overindulgence in these amortisation stages has just as negative effects, of course, as close as possible to your real state of life, or if you have these rates higher than the actual maturity of equipment or assets, then there is a later write-off of value and extraordinary income, which are also taxed on sales or other interventions in this area. However, the main changes are, of course, in other laws that we also have on the table today, the progressive scale, the taxation of wages, personal incomes is decreasing. I would say that there is no country in the world where wages are so taxed, yet no, let's say gross 2 million gets a person in hand, 925 thousand dollars, I speak on purpose in large numbers, the cost for the company is 2 million 550 thousand and in fact here are 16.1 contributions on the payroll, 22,1, 38.2 tremendously high, the tax on paid salaries is still 11.8, after a reduced rate which is abolished. Over 165 gross is still 3%, which has already been abolished, which will end. And I hope that this progress and taxation of labour will also be eliminated, and that the whole range of things that facilitate the procedures themselves to make the tax system more transparent and clearer are those that will continue to have a positive impact on the further growth of our economy. It is said that concerns in the debates, especially those that do not know the economy, are in fact unnecessary because we see that the results are completely different, but at least some want them to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. I do not want to turn this debate into a symposium on the economy of businesses and the parameters of the national economy, but I just want to say something. Today, several times has been mentioned, and even in recent days we hear praise and praise at the expense of currently very good economic indicators, including superlatives used in some indicators. Justifiably. However, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, those who know at least a little about the economy, we know that the results of one year or two years cannot be and are not, as a rule, only the result of that period, whether left or right, and this also applies to the results of the Republic of Slovenia. I am proud and pleased that the results are such, but we must recognise that these results are the result of policy action, economic and other, in Slovenia over a longer period, as well as the result of developments in the international environment. Second thing to say. The tax legislation that we are adopting today will only produce results in a short period of time. That's a fact. And you have to think about it tomorrow. At the same time, I would like to remind those of you who have been able to look at the work today, which is certainly not an opposition diary, when on the economic side he cites the report of the Brussels correspondent and says in the title, "the higher taxes have slashed the deficit". This is based on data from the Eurostat European Statistical Office. This is positive that the deficit has fallen, but that we think and cannot be complacent with the fact that it has fallen mainly on the basis of increased taxes and precisely increased tax revenue from legal persons. Someone might say, because it was adopted before, and that's not essential. In this there is a possibility and a reserve that could go into further reducing the burden of the economy. See, if we are so very beneficial with this economic burden, then why do we find that foreign investment has fallen over the past year, even though some other measures that are important for foreign investment have been taken, I am thinking in particular of the administrative measures that are being phased out and it is right to eliminate them even more. It's just as much as a little trifle to discuss. However, I do not want to go deeper into this debate because it would take too long and there is also no place and time to do so, but I appeal to the fact that we are only more objective in these assessments and that we are thinking first and foremost. It is true that the current favourable situation is also in public finances, if we take it as a deficit indicator, but we cannot go beyond the very serious warnings we have received from Brussels in recent days from the European Commission regarding public finances and, of course, also from the International Monetary Fund with recommendations on what needs to be done. There's only one thing about amortization. Like my colleague Starman, who we often agree with, and we look very much at a range of economic issues, which is not surprising because we have both spent many years in companies. I do more than I do in politics. The fact is that depreciation is one of the most valuable sources for ensuring development in addition to the profits left to the company for development and for the progress of businesses. I have in mind that, even in difficult times, we have been using amortisation, then called accelerated depreciation, managed to ensure faster, dynamic development of the company, greater competitiveness, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I might appeal or ask that when government representatives assess the economic or financial situation in Slovenia, they also look globally, comprehensively. Today it has been heard that, for example, we have far more favourable, more competitive conditions in the capital market than in the neighbouring country. And then, of course, from this immediately follows the question, if this is true, why does this inflow of capital from the outside no longer exist, no more investment capital, inflow, etc. So it would be good to have a complete view of the matter even when an outstretched estimate is made. If this law is already written on the skin or is supposed to be written on the skin of the economy to relieve the economy, then it is good for me to listen to this economy and at least what is in this economy, there are also people who know paper, ink, computer and perhaps some analyses that may lead to conclusions. I would take one point of view which was expressed in relation to the depreciation rates by the economy. There is no doubt that the depreciation rates affect the level of the tax rate. That's more than clear. I think my colleague Fari even explained how it was in the past. That's why it's also a proposal, and it's kind of unanimity that it's about the depreciation rates from 3 to 5 and from 15 to 25. For look at the reduction in the tax rate you have only the following year 2007 - 23 and only in 2010 - 20. So this year we are in 2006 and this is quite a long time. The economy has only calculated that this long period in this proposal has an impact on the effective tax rate, i.e. two index points, is 2%. And I simply believe in this economy, too, and they know what to calculate and especially because it is in their interest to burden the economy, to pay less taxes as you always say that everyone will pay less. They'll give less and they'll get more. That's how they just have to believe it. And you don't believe this economy with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! One would expect a public finance expert to discuss the proposal for amendments to the supplementary proposal for a law on corporate income tax in order to present the matter comprehensively, fully and comprehensively, even if it is necessary for a coalition or if it is also necessary for representatives of the government to present the matter in a comprehensive manner, but this has not been possible to track the individual segments at this point of the agenda. Why is that? In this package of tax legislation, in this law we are reducing the tax on paid wages, although gradually and in public finances it is appropriate or what is still transferred by public finances. Secondly, we are gradually reducing the corporate income tax. Equally gradually and as far as the public finances are concerned. Thirdly, I would like to find out where these public finance providers are when legislation was adopted, which had significantly higher levels than the corporate tax as well as the wage tax. Now, just because they are not responsible for what they say or are not responsible for what they do, they would want to put it on someone. And what I would also like to say is that more tax revenues; I think the Secretary of State said they are the result of a law adopted in May 2004 or mostly due to the 2004 law that came into force and which has effects, given that this tax base was established in 2006, 2005 and, since 1.1.2005, this law entered into force, so that billions of them would not have been repeated because I certainly did not remember them, as some have. And expect some normal trend, which is not as jumpy as from 2005 to 2006, even in 2007 and 2008, I think it's real and it doesn't have to start any "fun fun" for that. Finally, what I would like to say, in relation to the depreciation rates, were, in fact, as in the proposal of colleagues, in the amendment, but it was also heard from some of the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, that with the amendment adopted by the Coalition on the Committee on Finance and changing the depreciation rate in the equipment of vehicles and the mechanisation originally proposed by the Government 15-20 to follow, I will say, some expectations. There was also a expectation of a possible rise from three to five. On the other hand, I have also heard comments that an amortisation rate for construction facilities would also be acceptable 3%. Does this affect, as Kumer spoke, the tax rate? Probably, but I think the other effects arising from this law are the real reductions in salary taxes, the reduction of the gradual corporate income tax, I think that this negative effect of reduced depreciation rates will eventually compensate or absorb itself. I will not support this amendment to Article 33.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Spread out? Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the law on corporate income tax, we should certainly listen more to the economy. When this law was presented, the economy said something like this: The direction is good, but perhaps the steps are too slow. We feel someone, I'll say, a hand brake. Where's that hand brake? Unfortunately, in today’s so many times mentioned, the tax on the payment sheet or the tax on paid wages. If you are talking to a director who needs to be a development engineer today, of course, he has an interest in paying him well, keeping him well and keeping him well, then you can see the burden that this tax is actually on paid wages. I'm sure everyone would want us to put him away overnight, but it just doesn't work. This must be said to the Slovenian public, this is the legacy that this government and this coalition inherited. And this legacy, we eliminate the negative legacy. If it's all good luck, she'll be gone in 2009. Once again, when we talk about this law, we should listen more, especially to the economy, and not have any futuristic performances here in the national assembly. With regard to the Law on corporate tax, when adopting the 2006 budget, our respected colleague from the Liberal Democracy Club felt that we would not be able to achieve the planned tax revenue from the corporate income tax, which was planned at 164 billion Slovenian tolars; it was planned on the basis of the 2004 law, which was adopted by another set. And when tax revenues under this heading are significantly higher than planned in 2006, it is plus about 60 billion, and this same colleague expresses the opinion and the reason that higher taxation is to blame for this higher tax revenue. And now for the amendment that proposes higher depreciation rates. Let me say that we will not support him in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u259	Mr. Horvath [[Joseph, not Ferry.]] You've started very well. I agree with you - let us support what the economy has proposed. And the economy has proposed the depreciation rates you see here today. We're just summarising the economic proposals. Why did this economy propose - because the economy also agreed with what we proposed in the Liberal Democracy in 2005. We have proposed that we release the manual brake, cut taxes on paid wages and achieve all the goals: reduce progression, do not play with depreciation rates, do not play with different ideas at income and so on. That's what we suggested. This law was dealt with in the National Assembly and was rejected. And don't think the opposition voted against it. In 2005, the ruling coalition rejected the law on the abolition of taxes on paid salaries, which would have made it easier for Mr Janša to make a large group of 200 people for tax and other reforms first, and then flew in with this unfortunate tax reform that would not have done anything other than maintain high economic taxation and unloaded a very small group of taxpayers in the income line. With regard to the forecast and the corporate tax, you and some others: let the government eliminate, as Eurostat will, the one-off effects, the "windful games" are called, and you will see the trend from the corporate tax. And that's my criticism. My criticism is that one-off effects are being used for current consumption. You don't do that anywhere in the world. And now on the so-called famous introduction of a tax on paid wages during the previous government. The tax on paid salaries was introduced at the same time as the reduction in the contribution rates for PPIZ and the health register. In 1995, there was virtually zero economic growth. In order to relieve the economy, especially employers, the rate of contribution has decreased, as a result, a tax on paid salaries has been introduced and then all income from the tax on paid salaries has gone as a transfer to the pension register. Why did he go as a transfer to the pension fund? Since the pay tax was first established as a tax that tried to stop high wage growth, also to maintain some proportionality in, if you want to benefit in Slovenia, it was used to offset the pension cash register, which, of course, resulted in a large number of early retirements in Slovenian companies that went through transition. And this has further accelerated economic growth since 1996 and has created the conditions for us to negotiate seriously in 1998 to join the European Union because the European Commission has assessed that we are a market economy, that we are able to survive economically in the long term. That's the story of the pay-out tax. Then, of course, this former government began to abolish the salary tax by raising the rate and the last increase in the rate was in 2004, from 130 to 165 thousand dollars. And in all the political parties' programmes, it has been written that labour taxation will be reduced, that capital will be more taxed, but that it will not be more taxed than corporate income, we must be very careful, very careful. And so, of course, the government, which is digging into money from corporate income tax, is not aware that these are unique events. And it will be very interesting when Eurostat comes to you to look at this data and will require an accurate division of revenue, which is unique in 2006, 2007, 2008, and those which are, as it is called, permanent. And that's what we're talking about here. And it is clear to me that if the government accepts our proposal for amortization rates, it is not possible to share money for tanks and for offices and for glass palaces and for the presidency and for Brdo, I do not know what else. That's why you won't accept it, not because you'd be against the depreciation rate. Because the government needs this money. She needs it to pay her suppliers and cover some coalition nonsense. And don't tell me, of course, that you are in favour of decommissioning the economy if you don't want to take one of the rare measures to relieve the economy in 2007, 2008 in the year we took the euro, when we fixed the course, when the pressures on the economy will be much higher than they were in the past. Mr Janša, I recommend to Mr Bajuk, and to all of you, a little reading about Slovenia's economic history. The most beautiful book on this is published by the World Bank "Slovenia from Yugoslavia to the European Union". Well, look what's been going on. It's not like I'm here to talk. You're lucky, as he said, Mr. Ferry Horvat, that the economic situation is now good. You're gonna waste it. That's why your UMAR is still independent. It predicts a decline in economic growth in the last year of Mr Janez Janš's term of office. No wonder. Do you know what else will happen then? The deficit will be much higher because statistics will eliminate all one-off events and the deficit will be much higher because there will be a delay in drawing on European funds. This will be the situation in 2007-2008. And then you'll come to the National Assembly and you'll say, yes, it happened to us, the VAT we don't know, maybe we'll raise it, we have a bigger deficit. Please, let's talk about the data, let's talk about the facts, not the stuffing. Mr Bajc, I am not just talking about public finances, we are also talking about public spending and what is hidden behind this. You, who are of course familiar with the local, would say that SLS has always been an ally, a local community, even here, but you do not realize that with one other law involved, you are looking, of course, you will make a loop for the municipalities, because you will allow the government to decide that if there is a need to resolve state or municipal budgets, of course it will tend to the state. Just like he did in 2007, 2008. He's taking money from a pension fund, gentlemen from DeSUS, and less giving as he's supposed to, and he's taking money from a health check. All of us who are insured, because a tax gift needs to be given to 40 billion groups of tens of thousands, each of us needs to buy another BMW for the mandate of one government. If that's politics, congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you. Replica, please, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague of mags. Squeaky, let's go back and listen to the economists. If you ask them today, the directors of successful, as well as less successful companies, what no, Mr. Squeakl, now I have the floor. [[...]] Get used to this parliamentary bonton. If you go to ask them what kills them most, you go to ask those who are in the labour intensive industry or who are in some companies that achieve good results, which are competitive all of you will tell you that the biggest problem is the tax on paid wages. And I can't tell you, Mr. Squeakle, I can't attribute financial or tax heroism to you if you proposed this tax yesterday, but today you're proposing an annulment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u262	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Anybody else want to discuss this? Report. Mr. Bevk alone, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Mr Jožef Horvat had previously discussed and found out, and I am very pleased with his conclusion that the economy needs to be heard more. I totally agree with that. But tonight you have a chance to move from words to actions. We have tabled an amendment to Article 42 of the Income Act and I suggest that you press the "yes" button and move from word to deed and support the amendment that will only relieve the economy in a certain segment. And there's one more thing. It's been two years since you won the election. You said on this anniversary that you changed sweaty jerseys and that you started playing for the second half. Therefore, it would be wise to turn this record upside down and stop referring only to the sins of the previous government, but sometimes to sweep it under your own threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u265	Mr. Joseph Horvath, I regret that he has left. Apparently, he doesn't want to hear any arguments. I'd like to add to that. The change in income tax was an integral part of the social agreements. When we introduced the tax on paid wages, we received tolars from the corporate income tax in the state budget "0 Koma Jozef". In 2000, just so you know what we're talking about, the revenue was only 51 billion. Therefore, the tax on the payment sheet, which at the time amounted to 68 billion, was one of the key sources even at the time of Bayuk, as it is called, of the short presidency, so that the state could finance anything. After the transition has ended, however, it is perfectly logical to abolish the tax on paid wages - and this was an integral part of the social agreement in 2004. Part of the agreement we used to limit the wages with which we started inflation, which is why today we have concluded a second reading of the law on the takeover of the euro. That's what we were doing at the time, and it's true, the economists say, cut the tax on paid wages. Real economists don't even care if net wages go up. That's why they don't care about this game with the so-called income story. This game with an income story is only interested in some of the directors, mostly replaced, who found that, as the director of Auto Celje, they earned more than the director of RTV. And instead of raising their salaries, the income rate is changing and now Mr. Former Director of Auto Celja will have a higher net salary than Director of RTV Slovenia. This is data, very clear, very explicit. And the ministers will have more, and someone else. Therefore, I propose that you support the amendment, which will allow the basis for calculating the tax to be more appropriate, and follow what Denmark has done. Why Denmark? Because this is one of the few countries that has managed to share prosperity more fairly, and this has very similar limits to ours. And if you accept this, if you do anything more than agree on how to help the economy, then we will gradually come to the point that we will scale the deficit with real savings, not by taxing the economy more.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 99 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 11th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. TIME OF DAY - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A Tax Procedure Law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The basic objectives or starting points of the proposal for a tax procedure law are as follows. Simplification of tax procedures, increased legal certainty for the debtors, transparency of the tax procedure, consideration of proposals by the public and taxpayers. With the proposal of the law, the government wants in particular to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers and the tax authority and to stimulate the taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations voluntarily. In the context of the coordination that followed the first consideration of the proposal for a tax procedure law, the proposal for a law brings the following key novelties. In the section concerning data considered to be tax confidentiality, data on irregular taxpayers of tax liabilities from the tax authority may also require credit rating houses and thus contribute to the improvement of economic freedom and legal certainty. The National Assembly will also be able to require disclosure of the situation and movement of the tax debt of business entities. The purpose of this amendment is to control the implementation of the State budget on the revenue side. The data considered to be tax confidentiality will be able to be processed by contract processors by 1 January 2009, as proposed by law. In the section fulfilling the tax obligation, it is allowed for the tax authorities to repay the third party on the basis of the taxable person’s declaration, however, in the event that the possible taxpayer’s creditors are not harmed. The supplement relieves the debtor in terms of reducing costs that would otherwise be linked to the cash transaction. The news also represents the calculation of late interest in the case of over-priced or unjustifiable tax and not only interest at the rate of interbank interest. In the fifth part of the law relating to the collection of individual taxes, it is mainly a matter of harmonising with solutions in substantive laws, namely the proposal for a law on income and the proposal for a law on corporate income tax. In the area of income, there are new developments in the status of transformation of the entrepreneur. The calculation and calculation of income at the annual level is also introduced, including the application of all the allowances applicable at the annual level also for natural persons declared by the court to be incompetent. However, a substantial simplification also entails the abolition of the obligation to calculate the payment of income for other incomes in relation to basic agricultural and basic forestry activities and the abolition of the procedure for the application of reductions and relief in relation to the basic agricultural activity. In the area of corporate income tax, it is mainly a matter of corrections of a technical nature. Taking into account that Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law, including the proposed amendments, should be supported and that, where the provisions of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are met, the State Assembly should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u268	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 21st meeting, on 13.10.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a tax procedure law. The meetings were attended by representatives of the government as the proponents of the law, the legislative and legal service and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The amendments of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy, the SDS sent groups, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners, MEP mag. Milana M. Brickle and the Social Democrats' Group of Members to Article 80. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the series of articles. Part of these comments were taken into account in the amendments which were also adopted by the Committee. We were also familiar with the works and proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, the Association of Supervisory Councils, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Securities Exchange Members. The proposed law increases transparency of the tax procedure and legal certainty and simplifies tax procedures for both taxpayers and other tax authorities. The fact is that this is more or less a technical law, so most of the amendments have been adopted and are incorporated into a complementary draft law, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 21st extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23.10.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Versnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 1 is an editorial correction, so I think it is acceptable for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 69 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 135 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Mr. Versnik, report. Mr. Versnik, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 135 is of a substantive nature and is essentially changing the tax inspection system, which is prepared on the basis of objective criteria and based on statistical methods of random selection, and this procedure is known in advance and is based on this procedure also an annual plan. This is some kind of video we know in the preparation of surveillance at the Court of Auditors. So somewhere preparation is objective in advance, well-known, otherwise unannounced to "inspectors", but known to the tax administration. Of course, regardless of what is said, due to particular interest, it may also be included in this tax inspection on the basis of the competent administrative, competent national authorities, which also have the right to propose inspection controls. I think this is a much more democratic method and system. So far, we have been used to the practice of only getting a message and this has been decided by me more by the political line than by some professional proposals or analysis, which I think was wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in, please. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u275	A very short question to the government representatives, if they explain, of course, the reasons for the new third paragraph of Article 135, and how do they explain or what the arguments are? I think that the matter is quite the opposite, and I think that the introduction of tax inspection on a proposal from the competent national authorities on the basis of a finding from their work areas can, of course, be politically motivated. I imagine that, until now, the tax inspection was in some way objectively determined, by objective criteria, and the new third paragraph is speaking the other way around. He says that when, for example, the budget control office, the state authority in the municipality of Ljubljana, for example, determines this or that for the newly elected mayor, it will, of course, be required for objective reasons to be subject to exceptional tax inspection by the mayor. I can only imagine how this third paragraph - vice versa, Mr Veršnik, will be abused, but not prevented. If government representatives explain to us how they will implement this third paragraph, and of course, Mr President, procedurally, we all know, start around so that the government can respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Expand, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The present fourth paragraph is the third paragraph of the amendment. In fact, this paragraph is not new, it is not new in substance, it is already in the current text of the law. In this context, the third paragraph of the amendment, or the fourth paragraph, means, for example, that if one national authority, for example, the police find that there is an infringement, it may also be in the tax area, or the suspicion of an infringement in a tax area, that the tax administration may give it into its annual plan and that, in fact, such a taxable person on the basis of that suspicion may also be reviewed. In fact, there is only an opportunity for a more efficient tax review and, of course, a basis for coordination between different national authorities and in terms of the maximum effectiveness of inspections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 298 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Please report. Mr. Versnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u279	Thank you. Article 298. is editorial in nature and I would say the same for the following Article 314, so that I would not have made myself known again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Expand, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u282	As I note that no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 298. I am putting to the debate Article 314 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 400 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 411 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 421 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Bajuk, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Government has submitted to the legislative procedure a amendment to the Tax Service Act, which, in particular, seeks to eliminate the finding of non-compliance with Article 53a of the Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its work relating to the employment of inspectors who do not meet the formal conditions for the employment of such posts. In addition, the government in the amendment proposes some new solutions to improve the functioning of the tax service, to regulate the education of tax workers, to supplement the content of the tax register and to simplify the entry into the tax register. The draft law also takes into account the proposals of the professional public and the taxpayers. We want to re-establish the following in particular among the essential novelties of the bill. First time. The proposed provisions will make it possible for the tax service to coordinate concurrent tax inspections with the tax services of other EU Member States, which, in the context of the functioning of the internal market, constitutes an urgent assumption of effective tax control. Another time. In order to ensure greater legal certainty, the content of the Regulation on the manner in which the powers of the tax inspectors are exercised is transferred to the law itself. Third time. Similarly, as provided for in the Tax Procedure Act, this Act also proposes to reduce the time limit for seizure of documents, items, samples, records and other documents under inspection from 90 to 30 days. Fourthly.The tax service will, as a result of better organisation of the work of the debtors, inform about the state of their claims in the middle of the year and not at the beginning of the year, as is now the case. Fifth. According to the proposal, the tax register will be supplemented by new data while simplifying the entries in the tax registers for entities specified by the bill. Thus, the taxpayers entered in other registers will no longer need to send the data separately to the tax authority, but will be acquired by the tax authority on official duty from the registration authority or through the entry point, all in one place. Finally, provisions have been added in the law to transfer to the tax service the tasks performed so far by the foreign exchange inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, minor amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act are also needed, which we propose to regulate under the transitional provisions of the amendment to the Tax Service Act. We note that no amendments have been tabled to the bill. Therefore, respectable, taking into account the aforementioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to this National Assembly that the proposal of the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u285	Thank you very much again for your word. At its 21st emergency meeting on 12.10., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax service law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. Representatives and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. No comments were made on the draft law itself, and it was therefore decided on the Committee that, given that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, did not adopt any amendments to the draft law, the Committee notes that a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is to be held and that it is to vote on the draft law in the proposed text, as published in Rapporteur No. 97 of 20.9.2006. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that it do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax service law. We believe that it is necessary to listen to the demands of tax inspectors who have been performing work and tasks in these jobs for more than 10 years, and the amended law has required them to obtain higher vocational or university education for this work. This is precisely the requirement of the Constitutional Court's decision to listen to the initiative submitted in March 2005. It decided that the deadline should be set for the submission of proof of the start of education or for the successful completion of education in order to obtain adequate education in violation of the Constitution. The new solution in the bill provides that such inspectors may continue their work if they provide by 31 December 2006 proof of the start of education for the acquisition of university or higher vocational education, or by 31 December 2013 they provide evidence of successful completion of education. We are assessing the solution as appropriate, as the quality of work will not be affected and the requirements of legislation will also be satisfied. We also support less complex solutions in the law, which means removing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs. The law introduces solutions that remedy the shortcomings demonstrated by the implementation of the law. Among them, we point out that the costs of tax enforcement are borne by the applicant if it is not successful. We are pleased that such a solution is also welcomed in the executive chamber, as such a solution is also known in other countries. Independent entrepreneurs and persons who are registered in a court register or other officially registered records will be entered in the tax register on an official basis. Together with the abolition of the local authority to submit an entry request, the proposed solution is an additional step towards reducing the administrative burden of taxpayers. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the work of inspectors will be even more effective because of a provision which gives inspectors the right to enter premises which are not owned by a taxable person if they are confirmed to be carrying out activities "black" or where things are subject to inspection are located. It is also appropriate to decide that the examination of the tax procedure as a special administrative procedure shall be carried out at the General Tax Office. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act, also for the reason that the proposed solutions establish a more user-friendly tax administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u289	Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members and Fellow Members, Honourable Mr Vice-President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! For a little while. As has already been said, the amendments to the Tax Service Act must be adopted by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which established the non-compliance of Article 53a of the current law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the law deals with some other issues which are the result of the shortcomings found in the current practice and which are aligned with the provisions of some of the laws in force. We adopt the law by means of a reduced procedure in the second reading. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy did not have any amendments to the law and we do not have any comments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, so we welcome some improvements in terms of the greater efficiency of the tax administration and we will support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group for a tax service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's amendment of the Tax Service Act. The reason for the amendment of the tax service law is, in our view, certainly a decision of the Constitutional Court, which requires the finding of non-compliance of Article 53 of the Act with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to correct and amend the legal basis accordingly. The news that is still being introduced or incorporated by the novels is the more effective functioning of the tax service, the addition of the tax register to the simplification of the entry or entry into the register itself, and the provision of educational training for tax officials, in addition to a shorter period of 30 days, is 90 days earlier, for the seizure of documents, items, records and other documents by the tax inspector as tax supervisor. At the same time, the amounts of fines should be listed both in tolar values and in euro equivalents. In our opinion, it is also essential to change the scope of the increased powers or powers given to the tax collector to the extent that the tax inspector is concerned. This will further define the tasks of the General Tax Office, as well as the course or coordination of the tax procedure, in particular the exercise of control. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the proposed changes build on the tax system in terms of greater efficiency of tax authorities and services. Given that there were no amendments by the Home Committee, the DeSUS Members will support the draft law on the proposed text, which is the original text.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law for simple reasons. First, it is necessary to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and bring the law into line with the Constitution; and secondly, I think it is important that they simplify and improve the conditions for the functioning of the tax service, so - as we say - we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Squeaky on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u295	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues and co-workers, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I am very pleased that, as probably the most important law, this law has been presented to us by the Minister himself. Secondly, we will not oppose the law. However, I would like to draw attention to two provisions of the law in question. Of course, it is up to you to decide whether it is right or wrong. The first provision, Article 4, is, in our opinion, contrary to public finances legislation, which simply states that the tax administration performs its tasks; when it does so for independent legal persons, of course, it receives them for this appropriate payment! And of course, the tax administration does this for, for example, municipalities, for STIZ, for health insurance. Why it is important that the tax administration does this for the congregations is probably not to be interpreted. Anyone who has run for office on Sunday knows that, above all, the tax administration’s performance depends on what its revenue side looks like. So far, in principle, the tax administration has received payment on the basis of a contract and, of course, was the basis for this, only municipal administrations were not satisfied with the work of the tax administration, so that this is also regulated on the basis of the contract. Now, however, the government has decided mainly because pension and health bills do not have a government opinion, I do not know whether or not the money is enough to determine directly the resources for the execution of these tasks in the state budget. Well, at least what's done with this law is things don't get pushed around, so that the right flows don't show up between individual cash registers. This is one provision, a matter of discussion, we are just saying that it is contrary to the principle of transparency, and Mr Minister, when he was still an opposition Member, is very much committed to transparency, but now this transparency will be less. It will simply not be known how much the tax administration has cost work to collect contributions to the Vrhnika municipality. However, another more controversial provision of this law is the provision that relates to the fact that so far the tax administration has been a chamber for the Chamber of Commerce and, above all, for the Chambers of Commerce, it is now proposed to delete the article giving the tax administration the basis for this legal basis. I ask you whether now, which we have quite a few in Slovenia, we will have even more, actually form their own "tax administrations" or administrations to collect membership contributions? The government has decided that the tax administration will no longer do so, as this would help to defuse the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, one last thought. It'll be October 31st, in a week. I would like to know how many members of this national council have not yet received a tax decision. I think there's something wrong with us. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia whether, therefore, to anyone who will not send them a tax decision by 31 October, he will give them a tax amnesty. This is a substantive issue for the work of the tax administration. I suppose that, just as you did in the case of Murska Sobota, the director of the tax administration is now primarily calculating tax decisions, and the fact is that in Slovenia, some 10 000 taxpayers have still not received tax decisions. If this law helps, we will not oppose it, but we fear that it is not so, so take responsibility for its acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, within a half hour of the end of agenda 11. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Second draft law on the implementation of the fundamental development programmes of the Slovenian military in the years 2008 to 2015. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u297	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word and also a nice welcome from the Ministry of Defence. The purpose, objectives and key solutions to the law in question have already been clarified in the first reading, in the context of the general debate in the law that took place in July. From the point of view of the debate at that time, we have re-examined the law and assessed that there are no reasons for modifying the proposed solutions. The package presented by the revised draft budget for 2007 and the draft budget for 2008, accompanying the document and the law on the implementation of the budget, also take into account key solutions in the proposed law. This is particularly the case with the law on improving the budget in 2007 and 2008. Once the law on the implementation of the basic development programmes and the two budgets has been adopted, we will also propose to the Ministry of Finance for 2008 the opening of a specific budget line within the Ministry of Defence, in accordance with the law. Before that, an annual plan will also be drawn up so that we can start implementing the law as soon as possible. Indeed, this is a transitional period of 2007 when the current law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes expires for the period 1994 to 2007. On the other hand, to continue the implementation of the most important core programmes in the next period covered by the law under consideration. Given the fact that the 2008 draft budget is somewhat lower than the defence expenditure projections - the projection was 2% and will be dedicated to defence 1.87%. This month we are also finalising the updating of the medium-term defence programme for the period 2007 to 2012. In doing so, we must take into account the objectives of the NATO force for Slovenia adopted in June 2006 and at the same time the proposals of both budgets. In doing so, I have also said this to the Defence Committee that there will be no delays in key obligations. Some programmes will have to be suspended for a short period of time, that is to say for one year. However, the condition is that we will achieve the planned projection of defence expenditure in 2009. That is to say, in 2009 and by 2015 we have to make the projection for which we have committed ourselves, that is to say 2% in the coming years. We will also make sure that the most important programmes are implemented in accordance with the dynamics adopted from 2008 to 2015. Let me say that this law will ensure that the key capacities that the Slovenian Armed Forces needs are truly assured. Therefore, I suggest, Your Honor, that you support and adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Anton Anderlich, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u299	Your Honor! Following the general examination carried out by the National Assembly and the adopted view that the law was a suitable basis for further consideration, it was expected that certain amendments and certain amendments to the law would take place on the Committee. Two amendments have also been tabled, but have not been adopted, so to Article 6, where, in the second paragraph, we are in a somewhat vague and indeterminately addressing the question of how, in cases where the situation is changing, when the security and political situation changes to this extent, the provision in the resolution and in the first part of Article 6 which refers to the provision for defence purposes of up to 2% of the gross social product achieved in the Republic of Slovenia, and can therefore be made to these changes and to the excess of this amount of funds for these purposes. The amendment was designed in the same way as the decision taken by the National Assembly to earmark Slovenia for 2% defence, to redefine the national assembly after this procedure and to set that amount, if necessary. This amendment has not been adopted. Nor is the amendment to Article 7 tabled by Member Aurelio Juri, where the law speaks of reporting to the National Assembly on procurement, equipment, weapons and all that is planned under the TRP law to be procured. Otherwise, this provision once a year may be flawed in cases such as this year when there was a widespread public controversy over the decision to purchase armored persons 8 times 8 and, of course, the report that would not come until 2007 for 2006 would probably be too late. This amendment has also not been adopted, although it is said that each country has this different arrangement, and mainly the national assemblies or parliaments deal with current decisions and become aware of or even decide on individual acquisitions. As it is said, the Committee has not adopted any amendments, so there is also no debate here today, and it has been decided that all the articles defined in the law are only 11 that are such that the assembly can also adopt the law in the second or third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Can I help you, Mr. Squeakle, please? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u301	Mr President, allow me, of course, to clarify the procedural proposal. My procedural proposal will be to invite representatives of the legislative and legal service who have presented us with the shortest possible position on this law, namely, the legislative and legal service has no comments to the bill. In particular, let the legislature explain at least the following provision of the law. The provision of the law states that the commitments that the government will make for each year will not go beyond the law of certain annual restrictions and will then continue. This will not take into account the limits laid down by each law on the implementation of the budget in relation to the implementation of national programmes. My question is this: we are adopting a law that will be in force from 2008 to 2015. And this National Assembly says that no ZIPRO, no law that we are about to adopt, is the right position later adopted, can fall within the scope of this programme. And my procedural proposal is that the legislative and legal service, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, explain whether this is a constitutional system solution? Why this is necessary, Mr President - allow this to be necessary at a time which, as a matter of procedure, makes it necessary. Slovenia entered the European Union in 2004. And the review of the means of financing the defence attached to the government's work, for any of the European countries, as well as in America, does not know the way that the government proposes with the law for the period 2008-2015. This is no longer a way for European countries to know. This is the first procedural proposal. However, the second procedural proposal is related to the fact that today we are discussing a law that was sent to the National Assembly on 16 June. And on 16 June, the government on the side, I do not have an assessment of the financial implications, explained that defence spending in 2008 would be 161 billion or 2% of GDP. So we adopt a law that fulfils NATO's obligation, but it's a pure fiction. The Minister himself knows that this assessment is wrong, so I expect the government to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The assessment of the financial implications was supplemented by actual data. [[...]] Well, there are two procedural proposals. Legal and regulatory services shall explain the systemality and the content of the data shall be clarified by the Minister, if possible [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u302	Thank you very much. I read again: Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why, despite your question, I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. I think this thing should be done on the parent's working body. This has been decided on the basis of Rule 66(5) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 26 October 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 5:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u303	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting devices, namely the orange light on the right hand side of the card inserted. In accordance with the proposal of Member Mirana Potrča, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the Member State of origin on the implementation of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I thought it was right that after one year - on 3 November it would be a year after the government had adopted a programme of economic and social reforms - even in the National Assembly we would assess how these reforms were being implemented. We know that immediately after their adoption, they caused, at least as far as the uniform tax rate announced was concerned, a dissatisfaction between workers. We know that we also have different views in the National Assembly about them or at least about them. This certainly applies to the tax legislation that we are now adopting, and this also applies to certain issues of social legislation that we have adopted in the National Assembly and are part of economic and social reforms. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats we thought it appropriate to get the government's views on this. There were two specific questions: first, what and how the measures taken so far are being assessed; and secondly, what the government will present to us. With regard to the first, the Prime Minister announced that we must be satisfied and that everything is fine. On the other hand - the answer to the question has not been given and I do not know what the programme of economic and social reforms for the welfare of Slovenia is preparing. But I know because I am monitoring that one third of people are still barely supporting reforms. I know there are major problems in the social partnership. Today we are reading notices that progress is possible only if it is provided by the Prime Minister, because cooperation with the competent minister is poor. I know that there is a major stalemate in the area of social partnership in health and labour legislation. At this meeting, we will adopt a law on the coordination of social transfers, which comes to Parliament without the cooperation of the social partners. And it could still be listed. I think this is all in the interest of Parliament, the National Assembly, to discuss these issues, because it is certainly the interest of all of us to see economic and social reforms achieve greater prosperity in Slovenia. I therefore expect you to support our proposal to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u305	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that from the present 63 Members and Members are in favour of 24 votes against 37. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the Saš Pečet's question on value added tax. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Report. Mr. Pache, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u306	Thank you. Respectable present. There is a significant difference or big gap between yesterday's reply to my question by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, and between the acts adopted by this State Assembly in the field of public finances. All of us and all of us who are interested in the public finances policy in our country actually know that it is increasing or forecasting for 2008 and that this envisaged amendment is already recorded in the 2008 budget. The indexation between the third and fourth columns in the budget indicates an increase in value added tax revenue by more than 11%, which means an increase in the lower and higher value added tax rates. From the words of the Prime Minister, who sums them up by the words of the Finance Minister, Mr Bayuk, of course, this is not the case. And given that, in the Slovenian National Party, we are assessing that a maximum consensus is needed around tax policy more important than consensus, it would make sense to achieve a policy that will not burden our citizens and citizens more than it does, therefore, that in this perceived threat, a threat which, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is verbally hiding and in fact to speak within the framework of the national assembly. In the National Parties' Group of Members, we appeal to all Members present and Members to allow this debate to be held. In the final stage, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has never harmed anyone. The National Assembly is the forum in which the debate on our country's fiscal policy should take place. We're asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Slavko Gaber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up. Mr. Davorin Terchon has given up. And Mr. Willie Trophynik, too. Anybody else want to discuss it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szvikla will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mag. Milan M. Squeakle on the work of ministers so far. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 28 to 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Trofenika, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Economy and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, to the question of the Member State's question of the consequences that the reform of the sugar sector in the EU will have for the sugar factory Ormož. On behalf of the Group of Members. Report. Mr. Franz Jazbec. You're giving up. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u308	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to say that we will support this proposal by Mr Trofenik in Novi Slovenija. For we want to discuss the sugar factory in Ormož and the conditions that plague this factory today, our only sugar factory. Everything that is going on is due to the changed market order for sugar. With this market order, sugar prices and sugar beet prices are very low. In particular, it is said here that the factory operates with great profits and we would like to hear about those who say that it is here in this national assembly that they explain to us, because in accordance with the market order adopted by the European Union and which Slovenia has not had an impact, as well as the Balkan regulation, which means large imports of sugar from Serbia and Croatia through Slovenia into the European Union, however, it is important for the Slovenian public to say that the factory in the restructuring fund must pay more than EUR 22 million over the next three years. Rumor has it there's a buyer who's willing to buy a sugar factory. However, the fact is that Slovenia sold the sugar factory in 1996. Today, the sugar factory is owned by the Dutch company COSUN and by the Italian company SUCADRIA. In the economic business world, the owner also decides on his property. So the country here has some sense of bound hands and it is right to take enough time to do this here in Parliament. As you know, the sugar factory is also included in the list of those companies that the privatisation commission is supposed to review, how and how KAD and SOD sold their shares in 1996 and it is right to hear how this happened here too. It is said that the government has adopted a secret agreement, that there is a secret document, that is unknown to us in the ruling coalition. Of course, we do not know anything about this, and if so, then those who in such a way represent the wider and narrower Slovenian public should face these arguments here in the National Assembly. Perhaps this will lead to a solution. We all want the sugar factory to continue operating, to continue operating. We also know that it will be difficult to change the situation that has been adopted today under the European sugar market order. In New Slovenia, all Members will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u309	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ferry Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u310	Thank you. I support the proposal in particular, and with so much greater joy, when I hear that it is also supported by a fellow Member and a so-called colleague of Trofenik for the mayor of Ormož.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. As we have already heard, everything depends on this unfortunate market order, to which Slovenia strongly opposed. I would like to point out already by the Minister of Agriculture that Slovenia was involved or a member of a coalition that opposed changing the market order in Europe and, consequently, all the problems we are now facing in relation to the sugar factory. That this coalition fell apart just before the decision was made is an objective fact. All the efforts made by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food towards this end were in vain. However, we support this debate also because it is necessary to say that the continued fate of the Ormož sugar factory depends on the owners and is not known. How and what happened to the ownership of the Ormož sugar factory is a story for ourselves, which we also need to shed light on about our opinion through such a parliamentary debate. The owners can do at any given time whatever Regulation 320 2006 allows them, all from complete closure to restructuring. However, in this debate, we will pay particular attention to ecological recovery if we make a decision in this direction. I think that the debate will be useful and that it will be shown that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has done what was optimal at a given time and under given conditions, in order to solve the problem of sugar in Slovenia. Once again, however, it is certainly impossible to decide against the owners. The ownership is the one that will dictate further developments in connection with the Ormož sugar plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u313	Thank you very much. I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Report, please, in your personal name. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Aloys Juice!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u314	Thank you very much. In my own name, since I was running out of time earlier, I would like to add that the government had done everything in 2006 to extend it, otherwise it could have already been in the closure programme in 2005 in line with the decision in Brussels. This year 2005-2006 we have thus come to a one-year extension of operation. During this time, farmers received reference quantities which will be relevant for the compensation they will receive over the next four years as a result of the transfer of sugar to the production of bioethanol. The closure programme is being prepared if such a decision remains definitively at the moment. This programme should set out everything in relation to over-employment and staff benefits. In this programme there must also be a solution for all machinery available to farmers and for all facilities if bioethanol is to be restructured or if sugar beet processing continues in one part. The big problem in this story and, of course, the debate will also show whether Slovenian farmers are still prepared to produce sugar beet at this price. In fact, in the past, the factory had to look for additional pesos in neighbouring Hungary and even Austria. And this debate here will show how ready we are at the moment, whether we have enough raw material at all, so that this production can be done in the way we all expect, even further in Ormoz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u316	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I am particularly glad that there have been such radical changes in the view of some of the possible closure of the sugar factory in Ormož. The Minister for five months, from May when the question was raised, did not literally respond to the problem of closure until yesterday. Obviously, it is a five-month effort, in particular since July, when serious customers have appeared who know and want to keep production regardless of the unwise decisions of the Slovenian Government - of course I will not explain why I will vote in favour, because it seems that there will be plenty of opportunities to clear this up in a special debate. However, I am appalled at the two facts yesterday because the Minister said two things to the truth. And that is the untruth that the Prime Minister has confirmed that it exists and that it does not exist. This only shows that the closure of the factory will not be the result of a changed European policy in the sugar sector, but also, or primarily, the inability of Slovenian policy to maintain the only sugar factory and all that is involved. I will therefore be happy to vote in favour of the decision put forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u318	Thank you very much. In view of the differing views expressed on this issue and given the fact that we once came to a truth, since this issue has long been emerging in the National Assembly, it is useful and good for this debate to take place. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Report. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Here you go, please. I would also like to remind you that this is an explanation for the voice and not a controversy with those who are not currently in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I do not think I belong in the circle of those Members who would play by the Rules of Procedure. In my own name, I will try to say, especially in defence and for the Slovenian public, that all the necessary steps have been taken in the area of the resolution of sugar problems in particular with regard to the sugar factory in Ormož. Once again, Slovenia strongly opposed the reform of sugar in Europe and the new market order, which is an objective fact. However, how to come from this objective fact, the answer must be sought primarily from the owners. The property of a sugar factory in Ormož, however, we know that ten years ago it went into foreign hands. And something like this threatens us with the Ljubljana dairy. It has to be imagined and I think that the debate will also show what the consequences of the transfer of ownership of the food-processing industry into foreign hands can be. There is no way that I can agree to the claims of some who are trying to bring all the blame now against the Minister of Agriculture, who has done everything necessary to do so, that she has been specifically engaged here, that the problem of the Ormož sugar factory has been solved and that the solutions for farmers have already been addressed. I would point out once again that out of 150 thousand and more tolars of subsidies, in the coming years all those who will have sugar beet planted this year will receive. In such a way that farmers do not have to be particularly afraid over the next six years in order to ensure adequate ecological recovery in the event of closure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u321	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Although I thought we were already voting first, I will still explain my vote. Look, I will support this proposal to hold a debate. However, I am very sorry that the Members did not initiate this five months ago, or ever before, those from this area. In fact, I am also sorry today that there was also a debate that would have helped prevent such a step, which went in a negative direction for Slovenian sugar producers, when the factory was owned by foreigners. I think that this production of sugar beet and sugar in Slovenia is extremely important and that we need to learn something from this case. That is why I see a good side to this debate being held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec, you have the floor. You pressed the key. Excuse me. Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will not defend anyone or attack anyone, but the problem of the sugar factory and its restructuring is an extremely important problem for Slovenian agriculture. At the back of one factory is more than 2,300 families, 2,300 farmers, who will find it difficult to find such an economic compensation as the processing of a sugar beet. As far as the readings are concerned. We started dealing with this problem in May in the LDS Group before the Ormož Sugar Company Assembly. Unfortunately, there were no real answers at the time. I am sure and happy that we will be able to discuss this and that the problem that is not political is, above all, of a professional nature, still to be discussed. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u325	Thank you very much. The list is exhausted. Anybody else want some? Yeah. Check-in, please. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's not my custom to explain my voice from here. In this case, I think it's only right to say it. I will support the proposal for a debate, so that the Minister, who I think has done a lot at this time, will also have the opportunity to say this before the National Assembly. It is also good to know why such a change of ownership occurred at the time, that the matter fell into foreign hands and above all, because I would like to hear what, after the next six years, what is planned, what is the strategy for Slovenian farmer in Slovenian Gorica, Dravsko-Ptujsko Polje and Halozah, in short, in our area where unemployment is one way or another the largest, where income per capita is far lowest. Because after six years, however, today we need to know how to proceed. And another reason is, I believe that on this occasion, the Minister will speak more broadly about the problem in Slovenian agriculture, and in particular about sawdustry. Last year, more than 90% of cane vaccines remained in refrigerators, i.e. in growers. This year is no better and the problem of falling planting vineyards in such areas, which are excellent, is actually the best positions with the sun shining, and of course it will be necessary to know and tell how to proceed. Because otherwise, in this area, something other than this has never worked out a century ago and is not to be expected anything else. I will therefore vote in favour of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u327	Thank you very much. It is obvious that something must remain to be discussed if we are to adopt this decision, so please stick to the explanation of vote. Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u328	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also vote in favour of the proposal made by my colleague, Mr Trofenik, to hold a broader debate on this and at least two reasons for my decision. The first is because I believe that bioethanol is only a partial possible replacement, and not one that could fully compensate for the loss of sugar production in our country, as this is linked to the production of maize, which is already highly polluting or excessively polluting the environment and with even larger areas, it will also make it impossible for a more even cologne. The other thing is that these compensations, which will be affected for the next six years, must by no means be taken as an appropriate compensation. Last but not least, it's time-limited. The other thing is, it prevents people from living with dignity from their own products. And I hope that the debate will indeed take place and that we will find a more appropriate solution in the debate and, above all, one that will take care of a wide range of people. Here I warn you, it is not just a sugar factory and workers who are employed in a sugar factory. This is also the case for sugar beet producers, and these are very large in Pomour and the surrounding areas of Ormož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've come to the point. I will support this decision, just as apparently the majority in this national council. First of all, I'm going to support it because I think it's pointless to sue and regret or bark about how the factory got into foreign hands. And this is what those today who at the same time adopt the economic and social reform agenda, the strategy and are for an open Slovenian economy and so on. At the same time, they are always suing what happened to the Slovenian economy. Personally and many of my colleagues are convinced that this factory would have been closed long ago if it had not also been taken by foreign owners and kept production going. However, what is happening today and what has been happening in the last five months clearly indicates and leads to the conclusion that for some agro lobbies, obviously connected with at least two ruling or three ruling parties, it is more profitable and beneficial to close the factory than to maintain sugar production even with another owner. And we have to answer this question: Who benefits from closing the factory and who will lose when closing the factory and who would benefit if the factory continued operating under other owners and producing sugar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u332	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, the Slovenian public expects an answer, probably also that the National Assembly should be defined and that a broader discussion should be held in the National Assembly on the possible closure of the Ormož sugar plant. Therefore, as a Member from this immediate area, of course, I will support Mr Trofenik's proposal, because the Slovenian farmer cares little about what the policy in the past has been in today's sugar factory where it is. But he probably doesn't care what he's making on his land tomorrow. And as I said at the outset, it is right to have a broader debate in the Slovenian Parliament on this as well. That is why I will support the proposal made by Parliamentary colleague William Trophynik to do so by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u333	Thank you. And Mr. Squeakle? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is good that, for the second time in this mandate, we are going to hold a debate on the inadequate response in this case of the Minister. I regret that we will only do this late in the autumn of this year, after we have failed or wanted to hear from the Minister what she will do at a few otherwise closed meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee, or expected more serious action from the government. Of course, I am pleased that, as I hear from the Members' announcement, there will be a debate on this. I regret that today, of course, there was no willingness to decide on the debate of some other ministers, although, of course, we have a few more votes ahead. It is right to discuss the problems. Surely the area of agriculture is not only because of the sugar factory, but because of everything the Minister has been doing over the past two years, it is very important. It is very important to discuss this. And it may also be possible to consider in this national assembly whether we could do more. Yeah, we could do more. The open joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture with an open joint meeting with the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union and the debate on Slovenia's positions until, of course, the decision of the Ministers for Agriculture at the spring session, when this sugar regime was regulated, could help a lot more. At that time, of course, there was no such thing. Now, gentlemen, you are running these committees and are unfortunately also marrying from this area the appropriate results of this head-stressing in the sand.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u335	Thank you. Any other wishes? Yeah, the application's rolling. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u336	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I support this decision. It is good that the National Assembly has a broad debate on this acute issue. Of course, I am thinking of more than 2,000 producers or sugar beet growers. Just as Slovenian farmers have studied the technology of optimal sugar beet production, we are at risk of shutting down the sugar factory. Of course, the owner can do what he wants. But there is one sadness here in the atmosphere that we are just passing this year, so when we do this debate, 10 years from which foreigners took over this factory. The debate would be and will be of quality if we had and if we had competent debaters here in the National Assembly. We know who the President of the Slovenian Government was back then. I'm also interested in the position of the then Armenian mayor. Wasn't he next to the way he warned about these things? That is why, as it is said, I really expect this debate. As it is said, I will once again support this decision in order to hold a broad debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support the debate to discuss the possible solution of the Ormož sugar plant. I am not promising much about the debate on the past, even though it may be painful, as it seems, because the story is that at the time, cooperatives who had losses were selling their shares to cover their losses. It's important what happens now. In fact, production or alcohol or biodiesel gives the farmer four times less than sugar beet production after hectare. Some of the bonuses that they will receive in the coming years seem to me to be attractive by 2013, but they do not cover the loss that will arise. It is also important to discuss which solutions are possible to avoid anything similar to that of the Ljubljana Dairy Departments when one minister saves dairy and another minister sells Ljubljana Dairy, in cooperation with some dairy cooperatives and so on. And at the end of all these stories, the solution might be to show that the state or government would still go to rescue the sugar factory because I estimate that there is a minimal possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u339	Thank you. Before we vote, I would like to inform you that Mr Grims is in the second seat because the system has detected a malfunction on his voting device. But he's voting under his own name. So, we are voting on the proposal. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Exercisel on the preparation of the 2007 budget balance and the 2008 budget. Explanation of the vote first on behalf of the Group of Members. Please report. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u340	The sending club will support this proposal because it is estimated that it is good to hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on the draft budget, first the amending budget for 2007 and then the budget for 2008. Unfortunately, this has not been possible so far, at least not a serious general debate. Above all, we hope that we will receive appropriate answers, including the position of the legal and legislative service that we have not yet received, whether the law or budget for 2008 is properly harmonised and implemented in accordance with the Public Finance Act. We know that this is simply not because yesterday Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk have confirmed for hundreds of years that there will be no VAT hikes, and they have peacefully calculated the 50 billion from this tax and have happily distributed them according to the budget lines. I therefore propose that you support this decision. This way we will be able to have this debate in full. We will support such a debate at the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u341	Thank you. What desire for personal explanation? It's not. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jureta Zupan, to the question of Mr Slavko Gabra on the financing of higher education. Application for explanations on behalf of the Member State. Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to explain the proposal also on behalf of the parliamentary group, or on behalf of my voice or our voice, linked to yesterday's debate by the Minister. I would like to discuss whether, months ago, when we voted here that we would pay students and students both in the first degree and in the second stage of our studies in the Bologna programmes, we were serious. At that time, the Minister convinced us that there would be no tuition at both the first and the second levels. Now that it is necessary to provide budgetary resources for this, he first came to the committee and yesterday I also explained to this Chamber that he intended to pay only one in four tuition fees for this study. I am sure that this position is contrary to the law and is certainly contrary to the debate we had here at the time. It would be more than inappropriate if such arrangements as he now proposes were enforced. At the same time, yesterday we had a debate here on another issue that would be better and better for us to take a closer look. This is about how this country will treat the whole area of higher education when it comes to finance. For the government has come to Parliament with a draft budget which allocates less resources to universities than it owes under the regulation, the same government provides them. If we believe that Slovenia should develop and be able to compete in the future with the world around us, then an agreement should be reached on these issues. I therefore believe that we will be able to reach agreement today in order to open this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u343	Thank you. Does anyone want to do it on their own? There's a report coming in. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u344	Thank you very much. It is important to reply to a fellow Member that this is the start of panic and the introduction of falsehoods, even though it was the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u345	Mr Jerovšek, this is not a debate, this is an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u346	Yes, the argument that I will not support this debate is that, on grounds such as the one given by Mr Gaber, it is not possible to discuss it because there are clearly unrealistic data. The claim that only one in four students will be paid under the Bologna system at the second level is unrealistic, as it goes according to the number of enrollments. At this point, there are enough Bologna students in the second grade. And that kind of deceiving after your referendum failed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u347	Mr Jerovšek, please don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u348	Yeah, you need to be easy. Untruths need to be answered. I don't think I can afford to have such misleading information here in the National Assembly. It is a young generation, and I am absolutely in favour of paying for a second-generation youth school as promised and as implemented. And if something like this really happens, then I'll be the one to warn the minister that something's wrong here. Now I don't agree with that argument. I also know that there is nothing at stake and that it is finally necessary to stop this populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u349	Thank you. There's still a raise. Re-apply in your personal name. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u350	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposal for a broader debate. Because I don't think it's an unnecessary panic. At a meeting of the home working body, when we discussed the draft budget for 2008, Minister Zupan made it clear: "It is important to ask whether funding for a study of the country's priority is or whether it would not make sense to introduce tuition." This is what is contrary to the Minister's words or his promises when we talk about it and I will tell the very problematic law on higher education. I estimate that such a broader debate would not last give a lot of answers, perhaps even a response to a national scheme on scholarships, which, at least according to my assessment, is just - I will say - a bad excuse for what Minister Zupan is obviously planning to do, so to introduce tuition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u351	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will personally vote in favour of this debate, because the Minister said literally what I will read at the committee meeting: "Not at all that now everything, the entire university sphere has moved to a second Bologna level and must therefore be made or the conditions for the transition from the first to the second Bologna level should be approximately such that, according to our estimates, the ratio should be approximately 1:3 and in this respect we want to move this population to finance what is meaningful for the country." 1:3 is 25%, ladies and gentlemen, of the population. And this is not how we discussed it in this National Assembly. We, when we voted in favour of the law, voted in favour of the law because we believed that it was a serious belief that the second stage of the study should also be financed. This is worth discussing, this is a very serious dilemma. This is a very serious question for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u353	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u354	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will also support the proposal for a broader debate. Last but not least because the minister will be given an opportunity to explain in more detail how the ministry has conceived funding. For as we see here, it is not about whether the second stage would be financed, but to what extent. And even now we can see that there are serious anomalies in funding and self-financing that some students can feel mainly through an extraordinary study. And the ratio of how many first-degree students are supposed to then move on to the second level. This is certainly not right to be set as one national ratio of one factor, but should therefore depend primarily on the ambition of our students and, of course, also on the needs of those for whom students study, employers, economies and, lastly, administrations. And that is why I am so much more supportive that, of course, we will have a debate, a broader debate, that the Minister will have the opportunity to tell the students clearly and clearly what is waiting for them or will be funded by the State, or that they should already be looking for some kind of financiers, how they will be able to go to second grade school in the future. So much more, because if we compare the first and second stages of the bologna, we can also draw certain parallels between higher education and university studies according to old age. And we know how these two have been funded so far, so completely for regular studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u356	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course, I will support the proposal for a debate for a simple reason because, once again, at the meeting of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, I have found that we do not all have the same ideas about the Bologna reform on higher education. And since we still do not have the National Higher Education Programme adopted to measure precisely where the State's interest in public higher education is at stake, I think it is right to discuss these matters. Because I can understand the Minister's assurance that the second rate of the Bologna will be paid for all enrolled students, including by limiting entry to a second rate of Bologna. I can't talk about anything else right now, because if I link this to what has been said, it is necessary to ask what the interest of the State is - and the interest of the State cannot be financed just for all students of the second Bologna level, if this country cannot offer as many jobs as a second Bologna level would need then, of course, I quickly find myself in a situation where I have to understand the Ministers' response as it has been read today from the Minister's Magnography of the response to this committee. It seems to me that we are not talking enough about very important things concerning the future of Slovenia and that it would be very useful to have such a discussion for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u357	Thank you. There seems to be no desire to discuss it anymore. We are voting on the proposal. There are 67 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In line with Ambassador Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to Majda Širc's question on achieving the objectives of cultural policy in the field of film. We're voting. The vote is under way. Mrs. Shirca, I was watching, waiting, you didn't raise your hand. Be that as it may, I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Let me remind my colleagues that today, after two and a half years, it happened for the first time if I have a good memory that there will be a debate on an initiative to answer the question of the Minister to a fellow Member. This seems like a historic moment, even if the reasons for liking this answer are understandable. I would therefore like to ask that, on other issues, colleagues and colleagues may behave in a delicate manner. In particular, the Minister of Culture asked me what would happen after the director of the film fund came to work in the morning and saw that he was no longer at work, without explanation of what would mean for the continuity of the film programme and the autonomy of the future film fund, among other things, he replied that he did not see any particular problem. Of course in context. It's hard to discuss something that doesn't seem like a big problem, but because something doesn't seem to be a problem to the minister, I think it's a problem. In fact, it was the release of the director of the film fund and not the confirmation of the programme of the supervisory board, which was appointed by the minister because in one film that the supervisory board had received an opinion, the program commission found that there were too many erotic scenes, while in the other film they did not like to play Magnifico because he had run for office on Mr Jankovic's list and was supposed to be financed by Kar Janković. In short, interference with the autonomy of Slovenian film, when the parties decide what can be recorded and who can play in films, is unacceptable and unheard of. At the same time, it is also a solution that the media report said would occur because the director protected the legality, the public interest of the film, not the other way around. This is a major problem not only in the context of cleaning personnel that are not liked but also in the context of respect for the national programme. Recording and achieving a higher number of films than a resolution on the national programme also requires and as my question has been raised. In short, it would be right for colleagues and colleagues to have this discussion, because it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u359	Thank you. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my personal behalf. Everyone who wants to sign up for this, please. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u360	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposal, but at the same time I would remind my fellow Member that this is the second time. We have already had an extensive discussion with Minister Bajuk, and we will now also be with the Minister of Agriculture. But I will not support the proposal, because the Minister of Culture is already under interpolation and I think it will be possible to clear everything up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u361	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u362	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I will not support this proposal for a simple reason, because in the Slovenian film everything that is related to it has indeed been a problem in the past. There were also strong family ties, clienteleistic ties, which also led to the LDS Group. But the question presented here today is limited to just one point. That's what you call an external image. However, he does not deal with all the causes that have led to the present situation. I'm sure that's the kind of light a Slovenian movie would ever deserve. However, I think it will be an opportunity to do so when we discuss the interpretation against the Minister of Culture. However, such a narrowly limited debate would certainly not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u363	Thank you. I'm going to reopen the application for explanations of vote. Please, once again, everyone who wants to do this, please report that we will not open the application individually. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u364	Thank you very much. The question raised to the Minister for the reasons for the discharge of the Director of the Film Fund or its film policy covered all those fields which give the impression that the Government wants the untransparent and also the illegal operation of its directors in public institutions or funds. In the case of the film fund, it is also worth mentioning that government representatives in the supervisory board of the film fund have advocated supporting those projects that lead to clientism and nepotism or to rehabilitate old projects with people who might want to renew something that has been found in the past as already fatally non-renewable. Therefore, I think that this case is a reflection of other cases that are also taking place outside the culture or film fund and would be very useful to discuss this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u365	Thank you. We're voting on the proposal. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal of Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, to the question of the question of the question of the question of the delegation of property management rights to the University of Vinarska Street 14 in Maribor from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport." We're voting. The vote on the proposal is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to point 2, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will vote on the proposal for a law on the introduction of the euro on Thursday 26 October 2006 in the framework of the votes. With regard to point 3, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will vote on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on intangible securities on Thursday 26 October 2006 in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on income. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 26. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes against 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 42 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! We also propose that those highly educated workers and experts who are sent and sent by our companies to work abroad to subsidiaries, to other public servants and to officials under the law governing wage relations in the public sector be levelled. In order to take account of income on the income side only those incomes or parts of income from the employment relationship, which correspond to the income from the employment relationship obtained for the same work in the Republic of Slovenia by content and volume. The Prime Minister and ministers have based this on the burden of the Slovenian economy and, as a result, on the increased competitiveness of the economy. That's how we would relieve these companies. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, which also supports this amendment of Social Democrats, there are about 1,000 employees, highly educated experts who are sent abroad by our companies. So this is not a very large number as we have heard from government representatives today. I also don't think there's any fear that companies could abuse it, because I think there are mechanisms to control it. Certainly now is the opportunity to listen to the economy, as some members of the coalition have said today, let us move from words to action and vote for the amendments of the Social Democrats and thus burden the Slovenian economy. However, I do not think that taxes will suffer so much that the country could not function normally in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u367	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. I'm opening an application in my personal name. Mr. Kumer, please. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u368	I myself will support this amendment and, of course, I propose that you support it, not because it has been proposed by the SD, but because this amendment seeks only to ensure the equality of those who remain residents of Slovenia, but are sent to work abroad and are not public officials or public servants. I think that if the government has already failed to resolve the matter as it should, and today there was something to be said about what Mr Rupel and Mr Bajuk should do, there is no reason for us to have an inequality before the law, because the representative of the Krka in Moscow should not be in any other position than the Ambassador of Slovenia to Moscow. By this law, they will be in a different position if the amendment proposed is not adopted. So please support the amendment. The most important Members or, if you wish, the most important representatives of the Slovenian economy are, in fact, those who are sent abroad and it is up to them whether we have any income to share in this national assembly and therefore there is no reason not to provide them with the same position as officials and public servants who have been sent abroad by the Government. I suggest you back it up. I'll support the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u369	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 71. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 67 Members present and 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 112 of the Act. Application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u370	Thank you very much. 112. Article 12 and the amendment that colleagues are trying to implement is also important in the light of the fact that we have read from at least one of the government ministers that the income situation does not deteriorate for residents who receive recognitions under the Republic's Recognition Act. Since that is not true, I would like to remind you that the situation here is deteriorating, from 14.5% of the previous relief to 13.5, to which the Social Democrats point and I agree. I would like to point out that the Institute of Republic Recognition is for those pensioners who do not achieve a fair status in the field of culture, and the State can, on the basis of requests and decisions, measure their allowances. Dear colleagues, let me remind you, for example, who are the recipients of such republican recognitions: Mr Miki Muster, you know him well, we all know him very well, and especially you, Mr Anton Repnik, Peter Zbeb, Marko Pogačnik, Alexander Skale ect. In short, these people, who have now been entitled to 14.5% of their personal relief or relief under article 112, will now have no more or less favorable relief, even if it is one percent. And this percentage also contests the claim that it will improve. That's not true. It's gonna get worse for you, too. So think about whether Mr Miki Muster, who obviously did not earn enough with his work, with the Republic's recognition, can improve his situation and be worth such a punishment. Him and the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u371	Thank you. Any other interests? [[It's not.]] We're voting. The vote on the amendment to Article 112 shall take place. This is the first amendment to this article. There are 70 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to this article, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u372	Thank you, President. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members, I would like to explain why we are trying to convince you, Members and Members of the coalition, that it is appropriate and appropriate to approve or accept our amendment. With our amendment, we provide social justice for all participants in the financing or construction of dwellings. With our amendment, we allow some to actually receive or benefit from income savings for 200 euros of those families who do not have dependent family members, for each dependent family member, EUR 80 per year additionally and for each of the following, i.e. EUR 100 per year. This means that we will make it easier for the most vulnerable families to reduce their obligations to the country. What are we allowing? We also allow young people - the President - to ask for a little silence - we allow young families in particular to hire at the beginning of their business path also the form or the rental of apartments or the purchase of apartments with rent, financial, what is actually today in the practice of employers to work for a certain period of time is not possible. We allow young people to plan their families, in fact, in a way in the country, we are promoting an increase in fertility, in the country we are providing this measure and thus an amendment to increase, demand for housing funds and to increase housing construction. 104 000 current taxpayers who have invested in the housing fund, however, we ensure that they enjoy the same right that they have enjoyed so far, so that we literally cannot tolerate them around when we promised them tax incentives for investment a while ago, and today we are preventing them from doing so by means of a so-called increased general relief that does not achieve their purpose. With this amendment, we wanted to tell you in the debate that it does not adhere to the Prime Minister's claim. Apparently, some miseducated him and taught him and charged him with lower taxes for all citizens. I underline the word, everyone. With our calculation at the meeting this morning, in explanation, we have explained to you that some of the first income group and the fourth income group will suffer damage to this account, so they will actually pay more taxes or will be affected by this reduction, the so-called reduction in taxes. So I urge you to respect your own coalition contract, the promise to those young people who have gone to save money, so that you can reduce their interest rates so that you can make it easier for them to enter into life, so that you can support an amendment that does not bring great burdens to the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u373	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment by the LDS will be supported in the parliamentary group. In particular, we will support him because we are aware of the problems that young families, searchers, and individuals face or deal with. Over the past few weeks, we have heard many discussions on how to ensure that municipalities as local communities are able to obtain housing for residents and residents, citizens and citizens. There have been many criticisms, but at the same time we have forgotten that in the procedure that we are adopting today, and also all the amendments that specifically affect this area and allow these young families to make it easier for us to get an apartment with this amendment to solve the housing problem because they would be entitled to tax reliefs. In the Social Democrats and also in the Group of Social Democrats, we have been alerting this for many years. We are working to ensure that the possibility of obtaining an apartment, which is one of the existential foundations for the development of families and individuals, would be to enable these individuals and families to obtain this opportunity by means of credits. We will therefore support the LDS amendment, which goes in this direction in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, in order to make it easier for all of them, as I have already mentioned, to obtain housing in a way that actively involves themselves in solving their problems in the area of housing. We will support the amendment in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u375	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš is giving up. Is there a personal wish? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 114. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u376	It is now easier to discuss this amendment because the ruling coalition has rejected the previous amendment. You have denied the possibility to prevent the duality of the government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, by raising the general relief of the single woman Metka, gives her 3 euros and takes her 30 euros - minus 27 euros or little less than 7 thousand is in the minus every month. With the amendment proposed here, with the third amendment to Article 114 or the first amendment to Article 114, some of these facilitations will be returned to it. Let's go back and make it easy for her to buy books, professional literature, pay tuition for her child. She gets some money back for health checks and stuff. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that it was right for a small group of taxpayers to receive a large tax gift, so it had eliminated the possibility of 2% of the overall relief and then 4% of the housing relief. By voting on the previous amendment, you refused to have housing in Slovenia. We proposed it in the form of a tax credit. I now assume that you will probably also refuse to return at least some general relief in the form of a reduced income of up to €100 per year. It's a two-faced policy. To say that everyone gains income by the law, and then to reject the amendment, which would really guarantee it and still claim, according to Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk, that they will win everyone, is a duality. A tax gift is paid to a small group of taxpayers by a large group of 104,000 who lose their housing allowance and 800,000 and more who will be taken by non-removal with this amendment for at least a given form of overall 2% relief. This is the content of tax reform: redistribution from a large number of people to a small group of people. That's why we're going to support the amendment. I hope you will, too. If not, the Slovenian public will see who in some way legitimizes the duality of Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u377	Thank you. What kind of special wish? It's not. We're voting. Please sign up for an explanation of vote to anyone who wishes to explain your vote. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u378	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment in our Group of Members. The law we have before us wants to simplify income legislation, so a general higher relief is introduced, i.e. 11%. And you're doing exactly the opposite with that previous amendment and this current amendment. So you want to keep all this complexity you've had so far. I estimate that these are more amendments to "kibishing" than some serious approach to help change anything and if you have failed to write some better amendments to this law in the LDS, then I estimate that there is a really good law before us. These previous amendments to collect some accounts for EUR 200 of tax credit, the first, then the eight ten euros next, to prove on their behalf that they have spent it for such and such purposes, you suggest that we collect again some certificates on the purchase of medicines, and then 10% of this would be recognised as a relief, etc. It's actually the "whispering" of this national council, I'd say, "sales of some fog." On every occasion, Cwickl talks about how the government will increase VAT, predicts when this will happen, gives some estimates, etc. and then he proposes to us to accept such and similar amendments. We, without hurting anyone, will not support this amendment. Once again, we welcome the fact that once with our legislation we will simplify some procedures, make them understandable for people, not what you now want with this and with similar amendments to remain as it was. It can't stay that way because it's too complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u379	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u380	I will support the amendment, but I did not sign up for the explanation of vote, but for the vote because you called for the vote, not the application. Thank you. You're not exactly accurate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u381	Mrs. Dobrajc. He's quitting. Mr. Mogue. He's quitting. Mr. Squeakle. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members, I regret that New Slovenia, as has been said, will reject the amendment because the amendment is too complicated. Of course you want a law that is very clear. Give as much as possible to those who already have a lot. That's how Bayuk wrote this law, I'm sorry. Tax legislation is, of course, more sophisticated, so in the past we have had a general relief for precisely defined purposes. So that Minister Bajuk and the gentlemen have no problem predicting exactly the financial effects, we of course went in the form of a so-called, if you want, tax credit. Is it right, of course, to encourage education in Slovenia to encourage people to buy textbooks, professional literature, to prevent people from being treated, of course, is a matter of every policy. I understand that New Slovenia is against this. New Slovenia is opposed to people buying professional literature, buying textbooks, being enrolled in, I stress, publicly recognized educational programs. We know how this works. People have to be ignorant, and then it's very easy to pick them up. Therefore, to the gentleman who spoke before me to say that this amendment is not complicated, instead of 42 lines after the previous law, which you have also adopted in 2005 and added about 12 lines, we have mentioned four points and proposed in the form of a tax credit up to a maximum of EUR 100 tax relief. This is also true in some other countries, European or North America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u383	Thank you. It's out of interest. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to 142nd Article to decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to this Article. Application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Tax legislation introduces a new system of grants and exemptions for certain generally beneficial purposes. We do not oppose this direction in the Social Democrats' Group, although we would like to hear comments on what this new solution means for simplification. More jokingly, because you know, all your big words, about how the new tax legislation will be simplified, are more a story for those who do not know what we really accept. If someone wants to generate income from several different sources, and many will, and if they want to take advantage of these donations and reliefs among others, then the tax administration will probably not be able to write to him in advance where to, or for, like colleague Bajc, the church or for any cultural or sporting or scientific purpose, but he will have to write it himself. Now the meaning of our amendment. I accept the State Secretary's explanation that this amendment may not be necessary in a formal sense because it ultimately has several purposes and others. You only know if in practice this will also form a form that will be written "and otherwise" for a citizen, he will have problems. Therefore, it is better that the purposes written are as many as possible, so that these purposes are visible that each of them can be realized. And second. There are different ways of writing options. Some are listed as taxis, some are listed as examples. I think it's done on purpose, but it's not just ignorant. It would be right for us to understand that, for every purpose that comes from the income or income of legal persons, destination can be the same, and that is why we are also proposing this amendment and we expect it to change because it really does not change anything important to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u385	Thank you. What desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members were present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. An application for explanations shall be made on behalf of the groups of Members. Mrs. Shirca or Mr. Gulič, who will be on behalf of the LDS? Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u386	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. My explanation will be a little longer, it is, of course, bound to a series of laws that we adopt with regard to religious freedom. I must say that our proposal on this 0.5% was bound by the law on religious freedom and did not interfere with it. Now it has happened that the law on religious freedom, which is supposed to fly into a basket, Mr Tsukjat put into some kind of levitation and is now standing in the air and waiting for a suitable date. And this miracle now allows various additions to other laws, so that "by pass" and that these perforated laws are obtained for some religious purposes. We therefore, of course, support the Slovenian National Party's proposal to delete this, in fact, it would be good to delete the whole 142nd paragraph, because it would only then be really easier to write all these income forecasts. Of course, people will check very well and also hire tax advisers to watch this, but it is again a matter of something. We will not give to the students, we will not give to the pensioners, we will not give to the socially disadvantaged, but we will give to the richest, one, of course, so directly, and one through various organisations. That is why, of course, we support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party and that, of course, this 0.5 self-declaration of taxpayers is thus eliminated, it is said that this is not the case for religious purposes. But then, of course, the whole legislation on religious freedom, true freedom, not non-freedom, will be realized, but of course we will also support proposals that will apply, say, the Spanish, Italian, Slovenian model or something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u387	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u388	Your Honors are here! So the dimension of the target pursued was just defined by my colleague Gulič, for which I thank him. However, I would like to point out another dimension and, above all, another view of the matter that we are trying to arrange in the parliamentary group with the amendment mentioned above. According to our assessment, we need to see the right set out in Article 142 more widely, especially as an additional source of funding, even though this source of funding for religious activities is defined in the Religious Freedom Act. And according to our assessment, this kind of monitoring or duplication will result in additional lack of transparency in the area of public finances. At this stage, we need to say that this is about the flow of public finances. From this title, we estimate that it would be much wiser and better to define funding or a source of funding in one so-called roofing, law rather than dispersing funding into individual parts, "per partes" laws such as this. From this address in the national party we hope or invite you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u389	Thank you. Are there any wishes to explain your voice in your own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament, the amendment of colleagues in some way tries primarily to prevent what is now going on in the Republic of Slovenia. First, you cut 2% off the relief. Now I imagine that, on the basis of Article 142, after this has been adopted today, a letter will follow for all those 1,300 appointed to the public administration and for all 10,000 appointed to the supervisory councils where, from now on, the 0.5% of the income that we have prescribed will be passed on to the specified institution. There will be a great deal of transaction costs, ladies from the Ministry of Finance, to collect and collect this 0.5%. And I regret this mainly for the following reason: you were not prepared to give a €100 relief to everyone, but you are prepared to provide an additional source through this amendment to relatively rich institutions. It's a few billion tolars. And you'll go through it peacefully. Two hours ago, however, we discussed whether we were going to give housing relief, whether we were going to give this or what it would all mean, as calculated, about 3 to 4 billion tolars. I don't understand this policy, except that this is a policy that says, not for textbooks, people have to be ignorant to tell them where to give 0.5% of their income.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u391	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u392	Madam President, I will not repeat what I have said before, although of course it is true, but I will continue. This is because this 0.5% possibility for religious purposes actually revolved from one law to another law, that it passed from the law on religious freedom, now it is here, once it is there, and at the same time it is always additive, is said to be cumulative, allowing religious communities to access some additional resources. I think it's the tenth. Of course, it would make sense if the so-called "Gulich" proposal on religious freedom were adopted, but unfortunately it was not. Now, of course, we have another situation, now we have a situation where some law in the air is waiting for it to come, although, of course, this hibernation is outside of all normal parliamentary procedures, that the law is waiting in the vote, the proposer has not withdrawn it, although of course it is such a habit in European countries, when a matter does not go through the procedure three times to withdraw it. Apparently it's another one, I'm going to say, kind of a prank that should actually make people think they're already voting out of desperation, if not otherwise. That's the special problem. For every citizen, it is possible to determine what property he has. Each citizen must, whenever he asks for something, attach his or her information on his or her property. Even for Mr Rupar, this was not the case for the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia. This law does not apply, there is no other law, there are exceptions, or there are specific provisions on other legislation that allow for additional funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u393	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u394	It seems to me that the amendment proposed by the National Party to Article 142 is actually unnecessary and personally offensive to me. The likelihood that the Catholic Church will become rich on this account, that it is a few billion tolars, according to Mr Squill's statements, etc., I do not think there is any point in reasoning that some means are available for each of the debtors to determine their incomes and therefore has a very wide choice to which they can devote. I think it's the right thing to do. In order to remove it for religious purposes in particular, I find it inappropriate. Above all, I do not understand the Liberal Democracy, which, in its previous article or previous consideration, has itself proposed that 10% be dedicated to religious purposes. Here you can see the actual transfer of the Liberal Democracy, now that it supports this to be abolished, the previous amendment proposes this. There's one more thing I'd like to say on this matter. This is a range of other institutions such as the Red Cross, such as sports societies, cultural societies, humanitarian organisations. I think that the choice is really broad enough that everyone in their conscience is able to give what they intend to give. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u395	Thank you. Is there any interest in explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 154. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 3. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We move on to 158.a., where we have three amendments. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 158a. Application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u396	Thank you for your word. Good evening on my side. The Social Democrats will support this amendment. I must say that I personally asked the Ministry of Finance a question, a written question, about the problems of these people when we are talking about restoring justice to physically and mentally affected persons. I wouldn't want to be too long in this explanation for a simple reason not to sound demagogic. This is about the problems of people who face each day and our amendment, or the Social Democrats, we want to restore rights to all persons who are physically and mentally affected in 2006 and 2005, it is said that this relief would be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u397	Mr Han, you have explained your vote to the third amendment, and now it is in the debate or in the explanation of the first amendment. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under number two and three will be irrelevant. They're essentially the same. Okay, if that's what you think. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u398	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to say, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, that we will support this amendment. Although it is an amendment tabled by coalition parties and is in fact identical to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. But it's very interesting, and I'm going to say this kind of act of coalition parties, although thank God my colleague Tanko has changed his mind too, even though when I asked him to cosign with me, I'm going to tell the substantively identical amendment, I'm going to say that he won't back it up because the story is over for them. It's about children who are physically and mentally affected. And I will say once again, thank God that the majority of the coalition Members have changed their minds and supported what has come from the Ministry, so that those who have been physically and mentally affected can make a special relief for 2005 as well. Thank you once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, although you tabled your amendment two days after being tabled by the Slovenian National Party, which asked for your signature, you did not have to go beyond your political thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u399	Thank you. What interest in explanation in your personal name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. This has made the amendment number two and three irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 159 of the Act. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 5. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the bill's proposer suggested that the assembly, under Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 22. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 26 October 2006, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on corporate tax. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 25. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the substantive amendment of the parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 33. Application for explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u400	With the amendment we are proposing, we are trying to correct the corporate tax law in such a way as to raise the appropriate depreciation rates and thereby reduce the tax base, which is why we are also burdening the economy. What we are proposing is exactly the same amortisation rate as in Denmark. There are many other European Unions with a similar depreciation rate. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided, mainly because certain tax gifts need to be financed in order to reduce the depreciation rates and thus burden the economy more. I propose that you, Members and Members of Parliament, support the amendment and by doing so - many of you have talked about this today - really support the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Whether it's an interesting topic tonight or not, it's another question; I guess it's not because it's Tuesday, but it's probably some football on the show. But this amendment is one of the few amendments which, according to the discussion that was on the Committee on Finance and the vote of the coalition, has rejected all amendments, with which in the second reading in the National Assembly we can correct the weaknesses of the law on corporate tax. With this amendment, we will increase the competitiveness of the economy and reduce effective taxation of the economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Mr Janša, in 2005 and 2006 and in 2007 and 2008 in particular increased the effective taxation of the economy, including because of what is proposed in the original law on depreciation rates and what we are trying to fix with the amendment proposal. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u401	Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 99 of the Act. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are voting on a procedural proposal. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 26 October 2006, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a tax procedure law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1 of the Act. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 65 Members and Members present, 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 19. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members present and 55 votes in favour against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 69. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 64 Members present and 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 135. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 65 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 298. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 63 Members present and 53 votes in favour against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 314. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 64 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 400. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 411. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to 421a. Article 1(2) We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the bill proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 17. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 26 October 2006, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda - the bill on amendments and additions to the tax service law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to the 11th item, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will vote on a proposal for a law implementing the basic Slovenian Armed Forces development programmes in the years 2008 to 2015 in the framework of the vote on Thursday, 26 October 2006. I hereby adjourn the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
