ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, Members, Minister, Secretary of State, nice greeting! We continue the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following MPs: only Bevk from 2 p.m. on, Dr. Mitja Slavinec from 1 p.m. on, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič noble, Aurelio Juri, Franz Kangler, Martin Mikolič by 1300 hours, Breda Pecan, Milan Petek, Aloise Posedel, Happy Friend and Jože Tankko for the start of the session. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety of Road Traffic. We have two hours and 10 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I am giving its representative an opportunity to further explain. Here you are, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This law is an interdepartmental project within the government, and we have been working on this project by three ministries, internal affairs, transport and public administration, and it is in the context of simplifying procedures for citizens and businesses. The government actively simplifies procedures and systematically clean bureaucratic barriers and prevents the emergence of new ones. So far, over 60 procedures have been simplified and some of these simplifications have been correct in the area of registration and sale of vehicles. Let me just remind you that, at the time of the registration, we notify the customer of the journey in a friendly manner, even at a time that allows for the renewal of the registration without any specific costs. All services can be paid with cash and plastic money. Registration may be made anywhere, not only in a place where the owner has a registered permanent residence. The duality of the documents, the sticker, the marketing licence was abolished. The sale does not require a notary certificate anymore, but it is sufficient to have an administrative certificate, which is at least five times cheaper. Since 22 May this year, an online renewal of the marketing authorisation is also in place, so it is possible to extend the marketing authorisation also via the Internet. This simplification is in modified dynamics of carrying out technical checks, namely that the first technical inspection will take place four years after the first vehicle registration, after six years, after eight years and beyond each year. This means an important simplification for vehicle owners. Taking into account only the cost of the technical review, savings at an annual level of 400 million tolls for motor vehicle owners, if we do not take into account the time savings that this brings, are less than one transaction for each vehicle owner. But it goes on an annual level for 55,000 cars, so that's one generation of motor vehicles. This is a key change in this law, but there are others. The time limit for the replacement of a foreign driving licence shall be deleted. This was a completely pointless bureaucratic deadline that we are now removing. That hand is gone. Then we deal with some questions regarding the online renewal of the marketing authorisation. As it is said, this electronic service is already available, but the law regulates the finesse regarding the service. Let me say, the web extension looks like the customer can file an application for renewal of the marketing authorisation, pay the toll and tax, and can also choose to send a traffic permit on Saturday, if you like, it is said that this is one option offered by the service. And then the new traffic permit gets hot, when the mailer is served, takes over the old traffic permit and it's free of charge, so without any special costs for the vehicle owner, deliver it back to the administrative unit and the circle is concluded. The law regulates precisely the service, which will take place slightly different from the general administrative procedure. In fact, if you don't lift a traffic permit in 15 days, it won't be thrown into the mailbox, as it is for other shipments under administrative procedure, but it will return to the administrative unit. And another organisational change: the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council is included in the Ministry of Transport, it retains all its functions, all its tasks, only that these tasks will be carried out within the State Administration and also the Ministry of Transport will take over the Road Traffic and Education Board team, equipment, resources and everything that belongs to it. In the case of technical inspections, I would specifically mention another amendment that was tabled on the parent’s working body. This is a problem of fire-fighting vehicles, which have so far been classified as a part of so-called risk vehicles, where technical inspections are more frequent. However, since fire-fighting vehicles perform relatively small kilometres on average and are not at risk, fire-fighting vehicles are now included in other vehicles and will be carried out in accordance with the normal dynamics applicable to passenger cars. We'll be working on the simplifications. The following simplifications will take place in the field of vehicle type-approval or conformity assessment and in the area of reimbursement for the use of roads when the vehicle is checked out. We will further develop an online extension. Those who have already tried this, you know that this moment the problem is still causing online insurance, because only one insurance company offers real online insurance. We will try to ensure by the end of this year that it is possible, regardless of which insurance company you have an insurance car in, to extend this insurance via the internet. Then, indeed, the service is complete, complete and possible within a quarter of an hour, from home, at midnight, if you want, sit in front of the computer and do whatever it takes to secure and extend the marketing authorisation. Quality service. One of those services that has brought Slovenia back from 15 to 7th place between European countries in the field of E-government in the past year and a half. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Virant. The draft law has also been followed by a new Transport Committee as a parent working body. I therefore invite Mr Hvac, a member of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 17th session, on 13.9.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia carried out a second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, which was transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure, on 31.3.2006. At its 18th meeting, on 23.6.2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion and adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act is appropriate for further consideration. Written opinions were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Services of 19.6., the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia 13.9. and the Society of Motorist Activists of Slovenia on 15.6.2006. In the course of the discussion, the drafters presented the objectives and main solutions of the draft law relating to the simplification of the procedures for the registration of motor vehicles, the reduction of the costs to be paid by the driver for the technical inspection carried out, the extension of the deadline for these technical checks to four years for the first technical review and the extension of the deadline for the following technical checks, the possibility of renewal of the driving licence via the internet, the provision ordering the replacement of a foreign driving licence after two years has been deleted. An important content of the bill is also the transfer of the tasks performed by the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council to the Ministry of Transport. At its meeting, the Committee adopted amendments to SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS by Articles 1, 8, 10, 13, 15, 19 and 20. He also adopted his amendment to Article 16 of the bill summarizing the amendments of SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS. This has made the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS MPs irrelevant to this article. The amendment to Article 16 proposes the abolition of the obligation to carry out technical checks on fire-fighting vehicles for every six months. The intervention vehicles of voluntary firefighters are only a few kilometres away and, unlike the vehicles of police officers and ambulances, are significantly less burdensome, which also affects the lower wear of vehicles. As an example, the 20 - year - old fire truck averages less than 60,000 miles [60,000 km]. The proposed period of 6 months for carrying out technical checks on the intervention vehicles of voluntary firefighting companies undoubtedly represents a significant cost for the operation of voluntary firefighting. Such an arrangement was justified and will be in place as early as 2000, when the first amendment to the 1998 Road Safety Act was adopted, whereby motor vehicles and trailers owned by voluntary firefighting companies were exempted from the mandatory 6-month technical review. With the new paragraph 5 in this Amended Article 16, those owners of motor vehicles and trailers who will carry out a technical inspection of the vehicle at 7 years of age under the old 3 plus 2 plus 2 system shall be placed in an equal position. These vehicles should be re-examined in 8 years following the current proposal of 4 plus 2 plus 2, which would mean that those owners would be in a worse position than those carrying out the technical review under the system proposed by the law. After the discussion, the Committee also decided on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled and voted on all the articles of the proposal and also adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much for the committee report. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 18th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on a single article, Article 16 and the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats Group. You have this amendment before you. I am putting Article 16 and also the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the debate. This is, of course, also the first opportunity to test a new computer program. As you were informed yesterday by the President, we're filing a computer application. You can press any key, of course that doesn't mean that in the first round the possibility will be exhausted. You can apply for as long as time is available, of course that does not mean that I am particularly stimulating you to make this decision. Please have them sign up first. Thank you very much. We also have procedural procedures. Another warning. When someone makes a procedural application, be patient and wait so long that the colleagues can take this into account when measuring time, because of course this is not the time to discuss the amendment. Mr. Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to let you know that the voting device didn't work in my place, so I couldn't sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u7	Good. Thank you very much for that warning. The technology is also confusing, so I'm adjourning the session. I hope five minutes is enough for once in five minutes. I'm asking the authorities to fix this device. Thank you. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u8	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Five minutes passed, we solved the technical error, and if I'm a little malice, we can proceed with the action of fast fingers. I am revoking and revamping the previous vote and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members to the debate, and I ask you politely to re-apply because of your previous technical error. We're starting the application. I hope it works this time. Thank you very much, although the result is slightly different than before, but, as mentioned above, we have more options. I'd like a colleague of Blacks to speak with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, or just one colleague, are currently in the hall. Mr. Secretary of State! There have been a lot of debates about these changes to the law at first reading. Most of them moved on the correlation of road safety and technical inspections. This amendment, which was tabled by colleagues from Social Democracy, also speaks about it, but it is not essential. I don't think we're going to achieve anything with him, just one additional obstacle or one unnecessary bureaucrat with a one-year delay to re-impose citizens and citizens and businesses. That's why I won't support him. I do not think there is a direct link between what is justified in this amendment and what is the proposal for amendments to this law. I personally support all government efforts aimed at rationalising procedures and eliminating the most necessary bureaucratic obstacles for citizens and businesses. I sincerely hope that these things will continue in other areas, including those areas which are the domain of other sources and which call for change. Here I am thinking mainly of the procedures that many know in the area of space, in the field of so-called location information and a whole range of things that were legislated by the amendment of laws in 2003 and even more restrictively by the rules adopted at the level of the previous Minister in 2003, which in fact prolong the procedures themselves, prevent the timely and rational implementation of important, not only at the local level, but for the country of important investments. I strongly hope that we will also deal with this in due course. If we remember this law, it is not long before we have waited in line for a technical review of the rare authorised organisations that have just received this thirsty state. We've opened this place up with a previous amendment to the law. It is said that if someone fulfils the technical conditions prescribed, he can also provide this service, which is good, which is nothing bad. When we changed the law and removed the label, we listened to a series of demagogic discussions in this room, what horrors were going to take place, and what a danger would come to all those involved in the traffic. None of this happened. A document without value went into oblivion and no longer filled an account of a successful private company, perhaps another account. These are all the procedures to be followed, and one of them is this change. And I think that the adoption of this amendment would be completely unnecessary and a step backwards. I must say that I do not understand it differently than that we are discussing it again today. It's about safety. The reasons are that if we go to this technical review every year, our cars will be safer, fewer victims and so on. There's nothing to do with this. We can look at the statistics, we can look at the official data, but we can look at ourselves. For example, I can tell you a specific personal case. We have a two-and-a-half-year-old car in our family. Six months ago, a woman and her family, her children, went through the intersection, and her brakes were canceled, while she was regularly serviced, and she was 40,000 miles [40,000 km] away. Does that mean what we've done with it? What have we done when we extend some artificial technical examinations? They said it was a factory mistake at the service. And I wouldn't have discovered it, and I could have it every 15 days. So I don't think there's a point and there's no direct connection. I think there's a direct connection to what's going on in traffic somewhere else. I personally support the changes, as they are, and once again, I do not support this amendment, because I think that by extending this matter to the eighth year, every two years, he has done absolutely nothing. And if you had any suggestions, look, you'd be right to suggest something that would have to say, tail and head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Next on the list is a colleague of Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and other representatives of the government, welcome! With regard to the amendment of the colleagues of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I can say that the New Slovenia Group agrees with them in the part where they identify the actual catastrophic situation on our roads. According to some calculations of the Ministry of Transport, the state of state roads is such that the Republic of Slovenia needs about 800 billion Slovenian tolls to be repaired. We may still have much to discuss in the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the proposed extended time gap between technical inspections of vehicles does not directly affect the safety of the road vehicles involved, as it is stipulated for all vehicles in road traffic that they must have flawless facilities and equipment and comply with the prescribed environmental protection conditions. The rules on the integrity of motor vehicles therefore oblige drivers - this is very important - to use technically faultless vehicles. In addition, it is a matter of newer vehicles, and we also stress the important role of authorised services, which have an additional and significant impact on the technical integrity of motor vehicles by carrying out their activities. The proposed time gap between the technical checks carried out is not contrary to the Council Directive of December 1996, as it is moving within the framework provided for in this Directive. Nor can it be held with certainty that the state of the road network is a reason to justify carrying out technical checks at intervals prescribed in the existing law. We fully welcome the marriage, as proposed and as we have changed it or complemented it on the parent’s working body. Last but not least, it is the biggest savings of citizens and citizens, with an estimated annual level of around €2 million. I think that the citizens will accept this amendment of the law with approval, just as they have accepted the removal of truly unfortunate stickers. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group cannot support the amendment of the Social Democrats, but we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much. And then there's Comrade Kumer on the list, and then we'll reapply.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Respectable ministers, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues. We in the Social Democrats Group support most of the amendments to this law. Again, as we are in the first reading, we are re-applying to article 16 of the amendment because we believe that the safety and number of accidents and victims on Slovenian roads are still not such that they can thus easily extend the deadline for carrying out technical checks. This amendment has a head and a tail. But I'd tell a colleague who said he didn't have a tail and a head that sometimes it doesn't just matter that you know the tail and the head, but that you know where the head is and where the tail is. That's two things. And this other fellow obviously can't be taken into account. A second comment concerning the eternal repetition that this removes bureaucratic obstacles. The technical review itself and as a technical review, in our opinion, is not one of the bureaucratic obstacles, but is one of the fundamental major protectors for greater road safety for all participants. That is why we have prepared this amendment, and that is why this amendment has a tail and head where it must be. Therefore, we propose that a solution such as the one before the law remain the first technical review after three years. The additional reason for such a position is also not the last in the European Directive, if you have read it, 96/96 EC, which states that the extreme limit can be placed at the distance of technical checks 4221 and not the one required under this Directive. I repeat, the extreme limit, for which certain conditions must be met, such as good and safe road infrastructure, as you all repeat, in Slovenia this does not apply. Another additional reason is that the European Union has also set itself to reduce the number of road fatalities by 2010. This action, which we are taking today, is a departure from this direction of the European Union. On the other hand, we must also openly acknowledge to ourselves that the situation on Slovenian national and local roads is below the level of this infrastructure in the European Union and that poor technical conditions and, on the other hand, worn-out vehicles are the cause of many accidents. Let us just look at three catastrophic accidents on local or state roads last week. If the vehicle is even less technically flawless, the possibility for these accidents is even greater, so we would like to draw attention to the fact that it is necessary to take a more intensive approach first to regulating Slovenian national and local roads and only then follow the measures by which we extend the period for carrying out technical checks. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to some of the contradictions of the applicants' arguments for this intervention. The applicant notes that in most cases the cause of accidents is a human factor, i.e. drivers and drivers. That's what the explanation says. To a lesser extent, this would be the technical integrity of the vehicle. With this extended period of time for technical inspection, we additionally assign the task or obligation to the driver or driver to take care of this vehicle without this preventive inspection. The most important in the technical integrity of the vehicle at any time, what I have already said on the committee and the first reading, are tyres and steering mechanisms and braking mechanisms. The measure that we have the first technical inspection after four years of the new vehicle means that by then each vehicle will have transported according to the average in Slovenia between 80 and 100,000 kilometres. Given the well-known attitude of drivers and drivers towards regular service of means of transport, I am skeptical that the three most important elements will be under some control. Therefore, 7 thousand tolls for the technical inspection cannot replace or replace the prevention by which we give this additional safety component in the case of vehicle integrity. I hope that the same measure does not give victory to the well-known Slovenian proverb that the accident will never come alone, but, of course, this accident can further accelerate the state measure itself. Finally, another one, which is linked to the savings of 400 million tolars, with which the minister likes to boast. I have a different proposal. He could stay for four years, he could stay for three years, he would be happy to stay for three years, but that the first technical review would be paid by the state and reduced by only 15% to 20% the cost of copyright contracts and labour contracts, and the first technical review would be provided to all citizens. That means over 400 million, but it means 620 million. So we have one and a half paid for the quota this first, if we really want to help citizens save. It is a very simple formula and the safety of the vehicle in road traffic itself will be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I will once again invite you to report to the debate. Let me just say, when a government representative wants to apply, he does it in a classic conservative traditional way, so he raises his hand. So, again, I would like you to sign up for further discussion, not with your hand, but with pressure, please. Here we go. Thank you very much. As you can see, the matter is working and I invite Mr Hwauc to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you so much for saying that. The main argument for trying to convince us to support this amendment is security, road safety. Around this, it is certainly necessary to say that we want as few accidents as possible, as few victims as possible, but that there is no absolute security and there will never be. By means of regulations, by means of discipline, by example, we try to minimize the number of these accidents and the victims of the damage as much as possible. If we look at the causes of accidents, then there is a long way to go with the rules: driving too fast, driving under the influence of alcohol, etc. Far away in the first place. Technical errors as a cause of accidents have some foreign significance. And also the argument of the roads. It is true that Slovenian roads, state roads, including local roads, are in very poor condition and today the applicant wants more frequent technical checks due to poor road conditions. But if this security concern were sincere, then it would not have happened that in 2005, in the state budget prepared by the previous government, there was virtually no means to maintain state roads, that we had to provide those minimum resources with the budget rebalance for the most urgent maintenance interventions. Where was the road safety concern back then? Secondly, the fact is that technology has changed, that we have new materials, that we have more sustainable materials and logically, it is perfectly logical that technical checks also adapt to these improvements, also taking into account that each skilled driver regularly takes the vehicle to service in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and also because of his interest. We've heard a lot about tires. The tires must be inspected and so on. Why do we have regulations that determine how much rubber can be used? Any layman can see that he has worn rubber and, if he cares for his safety and for the safety of other road users, he will probably go and change tires when necessary. As far as 7,000 tolls are concerned, savings for one technical inspection. There's no record in the law that a driver can't go to a technical checkup every six months. If he thinks it's necessary, if he thinks it's necessary, he can go for a technical checkup. Finally, I would add that for road safety, and elsewhere, we must take care of ourselves first, and then, of course, the country, and other regulations. I don't think it's right for us to sort things out in some forced way. We also need to raise, raise and raise other drivers, so that they themselves will behave in traffic so that they will as little as possible threaten themselves and other actors in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Chairman. Maybe today we'll be doing a doctorate in technical examinations, and we won't figure anything out, and we won't achieve anything, because it's just so determined and it won't be any different. Nevertheless, it may indicate a word about this work that seems to be getting a little out of hand. I also agree that a change of law, such as it is, is relatively good that solutions are needed, that are good, that solutions are needed, that are good, that procedures are simplified and so on. Nevertheless, the explanation given in this chapter, which deals with technical checks, is not entirely appropriate. It is true that, perhaps, this was one form of objection that really in the past there was not enough means to maintain and build roads. As little as is guaranteed today, however, it has never been guaranteed because we start to maintain and build roads from loans, and large loans. Citizens usually don't care where the funds come from. And it's a story that can also be populist. If you go to the dentist, if she's a good ambulance, they remind you every so long to come to the clinic, or you have a retrial, and she didn't force it. This is just a way to remind you at today’s pace of life that you need to do something so that you can live normally without any problems. And that's how I understand the technical examination. I'm not doing a technical checkup for the cops, I'm doing it for the state, I'm doing it for myself, and I'm doing it for the other road users. Someone said today that, on average, we are transporting 70 to 100,000 kilometres away from Ljubljana, carrying 50,000 a year. In four years, we've been transporting 200 thousand kilometers. A warning or a finding that something is wrong on your vehicle is never too good. And with this solution from a proposed amendment to a solution in the text of the law, the text of the amendments, saves a citizen 600 tolars a year. 600 tolars a year! We can move these numbers any way we want. At the same time, we found that for a thorough intervention on roads that are still bad in many cases because of the previous government, as you said, but now we have a new government that said it would make all roads very fast, so now we know that this is not going to work. And that many vehicles will usually be slightly worse for a long time even on worse roads, where technical integrity is previously threatened than on these relationships, where we drive on highways to Ljubljana and beyond. We have more and more ground vehicles driving in bad conditions, 4-WD and so on and similar vehicles, and these also need more frequent inspections or alerts that something is wrong. It is true that authorised services also perform one form of technical review and correct errors, sometimes even when not necessary; we know why and how. But these few reasons that we do have technical integrity under control are a minor contribution to road safety, but they are also important. Every accident, every injury, every life is precious. And the way in which the technical checks are extended, so in the manner proposed, I do not think it is the best. Of course, this will not bring the world down, but it is a shame that you do not want to heed the proposal to cut this short and help us and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. My colleague Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Initially, I will say something diametrically opposite, as my colleague, Juban, has now said. As much money as is now provided for the construction of Slovenian roads, it has never been provided. I stand for this statement. I can argue with it. With this difference, colleague Cvikl, if you allow it to be financed up to a maximum from the budget and that we had a high budget deficit every year, now the budget deficit is falling and roads are financed by favourable European funds and at the same time the economy is being burdened. Thus, not always new and new duties are imposed on the economy, but they are decreasing. The law on private partnership, which is ahead of us and which we will adopt this year, will also help, and I think that there will be at least one section in Slovenia, which will be possible as far as the highway program is concerned, I hope that it will be a freeway. Now there's something about this amendment. I listened to this debate myself, and I would like to add to it. It's not very important, but I'd say the following. When I say alone, I don't know, in 1978, because I didn't buy myself a "fike" at the time, but my parents did, I took it in Maribor at the store, went to Ptuj for a technical checkup and went to the technical checkup. The new car, it didn't work. I took him back to the workshop. I fell again. It's been happening every year, you all know that. I couldn't do a technical checkup. They worked for us so that you didn't do technical work on Ptuj, we drove to Chakotay or Varazdin there, and we all did. There was always something, they were "lagers," they had, they said, too much walking, "louft," and then they fixed it, and a few years later, the mechanic told me, that if we "stretch" today, it's already got a "louft" tomorrow. This has been one major infinitely messing with these technical reviews, and we have experienced this. Now, of course, cars are getting better and better. These matters are no longer available; today a technical review can be made relatively easy. However, I hope that those who have proposed this with the help of experts have carefully considered that such a time frame for technical reviews will contribute to a positive solution. I would like to say that the fact that car owners will take care of themselves and go to technical and watch tires, etc., this illusion does not need to be done. If you're not forced to do something, then you won't do it. The worst thing is if a car accident occurs due to a technically sound car and then someone who is innocent is liable in such a case. I have one terrible tragic experience myself, when a car of street registration on one side of the highway led to the other, crashed into a car with the whole family and there was a tragedy that you can't imagine. The reports then stated that he was to cancel the management mechanism or what it was called. So if you've studied this very well on the basis of professional arguments, then such a solution is a good one. It's really going to save some money. However, if the safety in traffic itself has deteriorated, this is why I have to say for myself that in the direction of unloading, and so on, I am not entirely sure that such solutions are the best possible solution. Once again, I do not misinterpret, I hope that the profession behind these proposals stands and that this is so that cars are so quality at the moment that technical checks can be extended for a longer period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I am aware that this is an area in which we all know each other, but I would ask that we use the so-called poetic license with caution that we do not go too far from the scope of Article 16 and the amendment. Mr. Juban applied to the replica, but the replica is still in a classic way. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u21	Good thing we're not all so technicalally finished that we can communicate a little bit between ourselves in a normal, human way. In the end, I think Mr Sok has even agreed with me. With regard to the beginning, I would object in such a way that citizens react differently to the way the country spends money. And if we take credit for building roads, of course they're tolerant and understanding, but if we buy, what do I know, weapons, we'd be upset. At least upset. And so it is here, and I think that's what I said before. However, as regards the method of financing, of course it does not matter. Finance published yesterday's story "Anxious Moves Under Bajuk," which says: "The state fell into the economy last year as never before, after the tax burdens leaped rapidly, I have a job." And then this graph, which shows exactly that, and we're getting close to those steps in the former system in Yugoslavia -- over-indebted. Of course, citizens, to say it again, we are not interested, Comrade Sok, but perhaps this should be of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We continue the discussion of the applicants. The word is from a colleague of the Presecnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to check in before, and I didn't even get in the first round. But in view of some discussions, I think I need to wash my soul a little and say a few words. I must say that I support this law, the amendments to this law, and I don't know how terrible it doesn't seem to matter whether this amendment is adopted or not. But I do have an opinion on this. For the first time that we go to the technical examinations ourselves, what we forget, we don't even go for ourselves, I don't know who's going for it, we don't go for technical reasons, or they call ourselves a little different. Of course, there is no such awareness of the vehicle owners. As far as the quality of the vehicles is concerned. I don't want this to go further into enlargement, because it seems to me that, excuse the expression, probably a little bit for the hair pulled, I don't know who gave it to save in this way because of these years. In order to save citizens and citizens or car owners EUR 2 million, data was given in the debate by counterpart Horvat. That seems like a terrible piece of data to me. I calculated quickly, which means about 400 thousand tolars per vehicle at the annual level. I don't know, I'm a huge transporter, and that kind of cost doesn't come at all. More should be put on the service. On the other hand, I do not know, at least in the area where I live, in that area, we do not have such cars as are possible in Ljubljana, at least as regards quality, so it would be good to pay attention to quality, especially the most sensitive parts and the most important parts of vehicle safety. More importantly, I think it would be important to introduce those involved in road safety to pay attention to drivers, especially young drivers. This is what the national programmes say, but at the end of the day, I must say, fourteen days ago, there were two extremely serious traffic accidents in which two 17-year-olds died. I'm sorry it happened. In one case, it would be partly the road situation or the quality of the infrastructure, but in both cases it was the reason for speed and alcohol. And that's the problem. Not whether we go for two years or three years or four years for a technical review. I also listened to such information that there was no money in the existing budgets to maintain the state road network. I don't know if the country started two years ago, but I think all these documents are available. But there's always not enough, even now, of these resources. Unfortunately, however, the worst accidents with the worst consequences often occur on the sections that allow for greater speed. And there we are the Slovenians of a desperate nation as drivers. I personally would immediately support the reduction of the speed allowed outside the settlements and also on highways. I was a witness or had the opportunity six months ago to take the Swedish highway, where the limit is 110 and believe me, one information that in 400 kilometers, 200 kilometers in one direction, and 200 kilometers in the other direction that one driver overcame us. They all drove 110 maximum, maybe 112, 113 km/h. Consider the statistics of the dead and the worst accidents in Sweden. I think it is necessary to take in addition to these matters, which are brought in by the procedures themselves, into a more acceptable state administration, which brings some positive effects, but other things need to be done. Drivers will need to be tackled, and our behavior on the road will need to be tackled and our speed reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat would like to replicate the former Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. More of an explanation to my colleague the Presecnik. Of course, I did not invent this savings of 2 million euros when I spoke of citizens at the annual level. This calculation, this assessment can be found in the text annexed to the law. Of course, it is not directly about saving only in money, but, of course, it is also about saving at a time when the proposer offers an online application to extend the technical authorisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have just been joined by young visitors and visitors on the Tribunal. I warmly welcome them to the Slovenian Parliament. We continue the debate. It's my friend Zagorac's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. Marriage is like, actually like, and it's really hard for a man to end up opposed to it. However, there are some shortcomings including, I do not know if statistics on this electronic acquisition of traffic permits are sufficiently developed. As far as the amendment before us is concerned, I must say that I have no problem personally with this amendment. I may even challenge some deliberate replica into my implementation by my colleagues of predecessors, particularly those who oppose this amendment. Someone said, because we have regular checks, and if anyone wants to go to the car's own technical inspection, if that's what it looks like in his life. The technical review costs, I think, 7,000 tolars, but I don't know if any of us sitting here are paying less than 60 grand. And if we have regular checks, then I don't know where you see the point of a technical examination at all. Why doesn't the law just shut it down? Three, four years, four, two, two. When you opposed the amendment yourself, where do you even see the meaning of the technical review? It's as good a car as we're supposed to drive. I'm sure they don't need at least seven years of technical review, none of them. Someone said, as far as accidents are concerned, the human factor is the one that is the biggest cause of accidents in the Republic of Slovenia. I agree, but you yourself have acknowledged that one part of these accidents also causes a technical factor, one small part. But if we're trying to remove this small part, we've done something. Four, five lives on the road. And that's something, too, it's a step away from what's happening to us now. I am confident that the technical inspection as such is not intended only for the safety of a particular vehicle. All of you, I believe, driving cars, have ever been on a technical checkup before, and you've probably noticed what they're looking at. Not everything is safe, something is also ecologically present and vehicle safety. Therefore, I think it makes perfect sense for such a technical review to be maintained. But not to say that it is completely unnecessary and that there are regular services for this. Of course, regular services, but regular services, as I said, every citizen sees that he will save because he will have to do it several times if he wants to make sure that his car is flawless, he will pay a little more. And unlike my colleague, Chernač, I am a driver, but I know very little about cars, especially about exhaust brake systems, whether my car has too much emissions or too little emissions. And I could use a technical checkup like that to be guaranteed and told by someone there, and your car is flawless right now. It is true that a factory error can happen, which is only proof that we do not drive as good and as safe cars as you, colleagues, represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Next up is colleague Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u29	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I support everything that makes life easier for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whether it is in the basic bill of laws coming into the national assembly or later in the amendments, but it does not matter which parliamentary group they come from. However, sometimes it is necessary to put on weight what brings more comfortable life, less anxiety, less work, and all that is behind it. In view of the situation in contact with Slovenian vehicles and Slovenian roads, however, it seems pointless to shorten or extend the period between one technical inspection and another. The situation is also changing substantially. Before that, Mr. Secretary said that the law was inter-departmental. I hope that it was also interdisciplinary, it is said that it was not only the vehicle that was watching, that the frequency, the frequency of traffic increasing in Slovenia, and that roads were increasingly destroyed. The highways aren't as good as you might say at first sight. However, it should be borne in mind that there are also cars that are wooded, of course at much higher speeds, that on average people make several kilometres a year, as much as between one service check and another; if the best cars are 30 thousand. So you have to do a service check every year or before the end of the year. It's not just the engines, they're up to 600,000 kilometers long, if they're well-maintained and driven, it's mostly the undercarriage problem. As far as statistics are concerned, I have to say it's not too reliable. It is important to know that in researching the causes of traffic accidents, there is usually only the first cause, which is unadjusted speed, excessive speed, or something like that. Other reasons for these statistics are not taken into account. There wasn't much talk here. It went to 600 tolars a year, that sounds good. I am not saying that this is so important, perhaps even more important, that that day should be a technical review. Taking into account this high awareness of the citizens we like to talk about, this could all go away because ultimately the owner of the vehicle is in charge of having an orderly, flawless, etc. A vehicle, and it's already written down, and we could shut it down. However, it is obvious that the state does know that such a strong trust is not for drivers, and that is why a technical review has been introduced as a control, not as an improvement in the situation, but as a control that forces the citizen to fix and repair the vehicle. Most of all, I am not in favour of prolonging the period, and I will support this amendment. Above all, there was talk about the training of drivers, how it is around the world, how it is different, how they achieved it, of course we know. They achieved, in particular, rigorous, consistent sentences at the beginning and only later on with education. In fact, we kind of raise this, especially the road traffic prevention world, we're going to retire to some ministry where you're going to work. However, why this has happened, it should be possible to look at what ZSMS records from many years ago, who did not like it and where it should be put; but this is the second story we will talk about after we see what this world will do with prevention in the coming years when it will be under the responsibility of the Ministry. Mainly, things are so open that this marriage is not just like that. This change of law does not have to be taken with your left hand, the consequences can be severe. I am sure that if the minister said at one of these talks here in Parliament that the number of accidents is negligiblely small, that he certainly does not want it to be important much - is said to be the cause of a bad vehicle. But we really need to know that these statistics aren't relevant, because it's not about the cause. Whether the vehicle was bad, it is usually looked for when there are complaints when there are specific complaints, or this goes through all the checks. The roads are the ones that will have to be regulated in Slovenia. It's mostly state roads. Wherever you go through Slovenia, you know exactly what it does to you, and I am sure that when this is abandoned, there will be more problems and if only one person kills themselves because we accept such a law, it will be bad. I don't need statistics to be fixed. Moreover, Slovenia certainly did not come into existence on 3 December 2004, but it was already, and therefore it is also necessary to look further back and into the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Next, I invite my colleague Bajc to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries of state! I will personally support the law itself because I believe that we are reducing normivism in our daily lives in this area too. And I would join most of the debaters, and every bit of the truth said: from the fact that we had a fichote 30, 40 years ago, they didn't go through the first technical one, because they told us what roads we had. And let me use another example: that there are so many accidents, it's probably also that when I built a house 30 years ago, I said to my late father, "Let's cut down the garage a little bit, because it's too big for a stone." Now I've got a yard too small to get all the cars from the kids and my car in front of the house. So much for that. The amendment itself does not substantially change the content, but it does not come to me because we say that every two years, but the SD colleagues suggest that it is not after eight years, but up to seven years, and I think that because of this norm, which reduces in both cases, once every eight to seven years, once every four to three years, we will not contribute to any greater or no greater security. One of the colleagues, however, said and I think that it is also so that this law does not prohibit us from allowing ourselves, in the meantime, either at the Automoto or at the official services where technical checks are carried out, to carry out this technical review even when it is not mandatory. Thirdly, what I'd like to say is we're talking about the state of the roads and so on. I personally assess or statistics say this: due to road conditions there are very few road accidents or serious traffic accidents. I think that what our youth has today - and it's right to have, but it has to be prepared for it - cars that have 200, 300 horses, but not once cars, when they had 30, 40, and they were able to do it "full" when they say our young people today, they pushed it, they drove 80. He's got a little gas today, but he's got 220. So personally, once again, I support this law, it reduces the normism of everyday life. The amendment itself does not substantially change the content, but once again, I do not succeed, then every two years something else needs to be corrected, because then it is practically after six years of technical review every year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u33	Since there's not much time, just for a little while. As far as the state of the road is concerned, I think we have less than more accidents because we need to drive more slowly - where the holes are. I don't have a problem with the SD amendment either. That's not what I'm talking about. I was talking about not seeing any intelligent sequences if we accept it. We are talking about extending this period by two years, shortening it from eight to seven years and these light trailers and others to three years, instead of four. And with that, gentlemen, we're supposed to solve everything you're talking about -- I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. And Member Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that, although I did not intend to apply for a word earlier, it encouraged me to listen to some arguments about and against. I think it is a mistake, if - already what has happened so far, to develop a discussion in terms of: the amendment is good or the amendment is bad, the amendment causes so many deaths or prevents them. If we think like that, then if we're logical, if we pull logical sequences to the end, then we won't have technical checks or cars and we'll walk all on foot, because it's not possible to absolutely protect even with a more frequent number of car searches, but that's probably what we would agree to think absurdly. Today we need to think about whether this amendment, which has been proposed and which I do not think is absolutely bad or absolutely good, is necessary whether it is necessary and whether we are really getting something essential with it or not. In particular, it would be difficult for me to agree with those who spoke and felt that way, first arrange the roads, and then there will be no need for such frequent checks. That way you can think, but not work. I think we need to work in this area by thinking about the various problems related to road safety at the same time and trying, as is the case, to solve them in individual times. If we were to think differently, and if we were to assume that only statistics should be taken into account or, I would say, stubbornly defend one amendment or be against it, we would probably come into conflict with ourselves because logical consonants lead us to make no sense. It would also be pointless to argue that four - two - are terribly good or that there are significantly better four - one - because we also have different other combinations and take them into account by some other European countries, and I am sure that they are also inclined to have as few human and other victims as possible, damage, damage on the roads as we are. But we can see that the experience in the world has not shown that this, four - two - two - four - one system or any other system would be the one that would be most determined to make as few casualties as possible and accidents. However, I think it is true that at least such arguments have not been given, with four - two - two making things worse in the environment. If so, there should also be some arguments for this, and we are not likely to reduce or increase direct individual accidents. It is particularly problematic that this law, whatever it is and we all support it mainly, will not bring us any closer to eliminating what is essential: not the driver's culture, not compliance with the rules, because here are the essential reasons and not the frequency of driving our cars for review. I think that without regret I can support the law as it is, without any special changes, and I will not feel any particular guilt for it if someone tells me that there have been more deaths because we have the law that is now being proposed. I'm sure that won't happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. To make sure that no one else - or if anyone else is reported - is invited back to the debate. So, we're starting with the application. Please press any key if you want to discuss. Thank you very much. My friend Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I've been talking about this marriage at first reading, and today, that's all. The problem is that we are Members by nature of people who like to get to know each other at all, from aviation to childbirth. However, I am familiar with this issue, and I argue that the applicant has completely unnecessarily intervened with the entry into Article 211. It is road traffic prevention, and technical inspections are merely preventive, necessary prevention, which often solves or prevents an unnecessary traffic accident. And this entry, as set out in the proposal, is only liked by people - according to their own words, populism. Those who have little knowledge of the technique in the car will know when the effects of this technical inflexibility of the vehicle - at speeds occur. And we always write: because of the speed. But I'm sure 50% of the causes are the technical safety of the vehicle. Therefore, I will tell you how much more frequent technical checks are needed due to the prevention that forces the owner of the vehicle to intervene in the improvement, to remedy the error. And there's no need for this intervention, I'll tell you, for road safety. I'm even surprised that they went there because they worked for years in the field of road safety after the professionality of the service.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My friend Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am not surprised on the one hand, and on the other hand I must say that I am also a little sad that there is so much debate for one amendment and so much infertility and perplexation. All those who argued that this extension was for four years and that drivers and drivers themselves would do things more consistently in terms of their attitude towards the vehicle itself and road safety. I ask you who are sitting with me in this National Assembly, why did we have to go to a preventive medical examination this year? Why doesn't everyone go on their own? Why does the National Assembly organise these preventive reviews every three years? Why, for example, does the fellow who spoke about this earlier not go to this examination alone without waiting for it to be organised by the National Assembly? And it's not exactly a real comparison, but I'm talking about the relationship to myself that someone's already been talking about today. I'll point out again, the technical review only has one job and that's a colleague. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] - it's preventative. [[...]] And the three elements for this preventive role, which has a technical review costing 7,700 tolars, is the existing road infrastructure, which is not the best, I do not go into it as much as it will be. This is a minority relationship, without saying that all drivers and drivers, but that minority that does not have this relationship, is also putting into trouble and disaster the majority that has a bearing on it, because they are on the same road, mostly in the opposite direction. And the third thing about this: I have a feeling - and two debaters today have said - that the problem is in those institutions which are empowered to carry out these technical reviews. Listen, this is ridiculous, this is ridiculous, and this is ridiculous! And in exchange for this greater security of the people, especially the people on the roads, with these 400 million there is no comparison, no substitution, no competitivity! One lost human life means 500 million losses for this nation - this is this one-year savings. This is not the number that we made up, this is the number that is quoted in this European space and is supported by arguments and empirical evidence. And last of all, those who spoke so vehemently against this amendment today, I think all the leaders of the parliamentary group have received one paper from the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia, at least our parliamentary group has received and thought they have all the leaders. It is very good that a little with professional arguments, how statistics and these matters, would underpin this discussion that you have had today. And another one, don't let the demagogist talk about saving people. To whom we give savings with these 400 million - to those who change cars every three years! Those who don't have cars will pay for a new car, four and two years, and then one. But we give leave to those who change cars every three years. And this one will never take a car for a technical checkup in life, because after three years, if he does, I don't want to be a demagog because he has nothing to do with it: once again, I want to point out that this amendment we tabled is primarily intended for this prevention - and we would be very happy not to be on four or three, but for at least two years. But if we've already gone to these three years, then for at least one time, these three years should hold and not change up again in two, three years, and next year we might be five years. And there's something else you're worried about about this unnecessary bureaucracy. I hope that this will not lead to the adoption in two, three years from now of a law that will determine that we no longer have to sit here in the National Assembly, but that due to bureaucracy we will be doing this unnecessary thing from home so that we will no longer have to come to this chamber of learning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. As a sign of democracy, I call again for a debate if anyone else applies. The application shall be made. Thank you very much. I see the invitation came upon fertile soil. This is how I propose that we first classify ourselves as Members and then give my word to the Minister, if that is the case. The first one has the word, Mr Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I admit that I am still a little disturbed by this hint that perhaps those who would not support the amendment of Social Democracy would be blamed for the fact that someone on the road died and would even be guilty of 500 million damages, as was said. I have to say this, I firmly reject it, and that's essentially insinuating and that's populism. This is intended for people who may be listening to today's debate, this is not intended for prevention. Let's prevent it. We know what it is. And if we want to talk about prevention, then we also need to talk about reasonable, meaningful prevention. Otherwise, if we follow what has been said here today, we should just say that this vehicle inspection frequency has to be so dense that we just keep going through and not driving cars anymore. And we're going to cripple other transport and the economy and everything else, and if we see it in a holistic way, if we see it as a broader social problem, then we see what the sense of stubborn insistence is. So it's a problem of the right measure, and I said in the beginning that I am not so much in favour of the amendment as a bad or as a good one, but that I am looking for what is meaningful, what is possible, and I am also doing comparisons with what we received in the introduction to the law, thus comparing it with Europe. With those countries that have a similar system or even the same and which have significantly better roads, perhaps better care for prevention, et cetera, et ecetera. I would just say that those of us who are not willing to vote for this amendment at all costs leave us alone at least in the sense that you will not insinuate how many people will be injured by this, how many sheets are broken, and that you do not operate on such concepts as personal medical examinations. Then I wonder why the National Assembly should order Members, who probably also have a preventive curtain on how to take care of their health, that they should go to a doctor every three years. Why don't we go there every year or every six months? The stressful life we live in hastens into changing our situation even more quickly. So, what are we waiting for in the doctor's waiting room? But that doesn't make any sense. It would make sense to find the right measure to take a real look at Europe as well, and it seems to me that what the ministry has prepared, what the government has prepared, has not gone completely beyond the profession as it would now like to appear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u43	I will not go into whether the government has passed the profession or not, but it can be said peacefully that this law is prepared in a populist way and that it is a matter of populism, "tobo" only in the name of savings and the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles. That's not what this is about. We are talking about this - because we are talking about the road safety law - that in this case it is necessary to take several moments into account and to approach them in a different way. When you talk about it - I don't know, I'm three years old, five years old, eight years may or may not care. If we are talking about some transporting 60,000, 70,000 a year, the other 5,000 a year, that some are driving on roads that are also macadamian and also different, and so on, that it is a lot of different cars, which some of them break down substantially earlier, they stop and the rest are used substantially earlier than others and so on - but here we are talking about averages. And if you really wanted to remove any bureaucratic obstacle, why are you not considering that we have a single European market, that we have a free movement of goods, why you did not remove bureaucratic obstacles in that part when you can import or import a car for six months or two months, now you buy it anywhere in Europe where it is possible, but you have to go to a technical inspection, do the type-approval and so on, regardless of the factory declaration. Why don't you do it in bureaucracy that when a car leaves the factory, it goes to the first one, it can only be registered for 500 kilometers or 1,000 kilometers, someone has decided - now they're even advertising that you can bring a car back in just one month, and you'll get a new one without compensation, and so on. There are, however, strong bureaucratic obstacles, in the first technical review, which can take place after one month, after half a year or significantly earlier than in three years. That doesn't occur to you, but you obviously didn't do it. If we really wanted to do this, we would go in the direction that it would be simple - I also think it would be very important to take some differences into account in terms of quality. As I said before, it is not the same whether you have a car that is, I will say, a cheap class and more quickly some things go wrong and it would therefore be necessary before those years that have been set up so far, to check it for preventive purposes or mandatory compared to those cars that have significantly better characteristics and are also priced differently. Don't tell me that in that part, because I know what Europe requires and so on, that it is mandatory type-approval and so on, you can upload it to the importer, to the importer, to the one dealing with it, and so on, that the documentation that the car follows from the factory to the first and further, that it is also accepted in our order and that it can be used. Here, that now we are just bartering over the years, this is, I'll say, completely foreign to me, because I understood that the first three years are somehow something for a new car, which would potentially - some analysis, research has shown that this is the time in which, of course, you make an average number of kilometers to make it useful and to remove some of these bureaucratic pathways and some costs. But now, again, I'm going to say, and I'm going to write another number down, but I don't think it's because the explanation is that it's an appreciation, that it's a savings, and that you're eliminating bureaucratic routes, but I think they're "through the finger". Because, as I said, I would follow everything that's going on in Europe, so also this other part, that cars travel through the countries independently of this, of course with all the papers, I'm not talking about any black imports or anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Well, in the meantime, we've been joined by new visitors. Nice greeting in the Slovenian Parliament, welcome! But we are continuing the debate and I am inviting the mags to discuss it. Squeezing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u45	Today, much has been said about populism, and I am pleased that some members of the so-called coalition have joined in. I remember well when this law was passed on the government, about six months after the reform framework was adopted, and the government was in some confusion - the minister had just gone for development - had to put something populist on the table, and then they decided to increase it from three to four years. Interestingly, the European Union survey shows that some are three years old, some are four years old. Even more interesting is this - perhaps Mr Ruple can still ask himself, because he is in America right now, and that is where it applies every year. You just have to go to a technical checkup and show if the brakes and something else is working. You've all been talking about a lot of other things today, not just this amendment. Therefore, in the end, allow only that there is a great deal of demagogies in the second story of the so-called online extension, Mr Minister. Demagogies are because you're going to extend your traffic permit at midnight, but in the morning you still have to go to the post office and turn in the old one and then search for a new one. And it says here in Article 4, if you don't do all this, the state will punish you with $50,000. So I say that in this law there is a lot of demagogies that came at the time of summer, when you were just without a clear impulse, and I suggest that the government, of course, should consider whether it makes sense, whether you are set up to make such laws, or, of course, to bring in a law that will ensure that we build better roads without any debt and that cars will be less corrupt on these better roads and that security will be greater. Until then, it does not make sense to reduce the level of prevention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I invite Dr. Virant, Minister of Public Administration, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. This debate very much reminds me of a similar debate that we had before when notary certifications returned to administrative units. At that time we discussed with notaries and they said about as much as we do today, it will greatly reduce legal certainty, there will be incredible complications in legal traffic, etc. - we said, don't worry, even our referees can carry out these certifications. And then the notaries said, you know, but at least 1% of the stuff is really complicated, complicated, and then it has to go on on its own. And we said, our referees also have their own boss, this one has someone in Ljubljana who can help him, etc. Then the notaries said, yes, what about the social dimension, we're going to have to forgive our employees, etc. Of course, it didn't happen and they said it at the end, okay, and you transfer these certificates to administrative units, and give us undisputed legacy treatments and we're changed. Even in this story of technical inspections, there is a bit of a sense of the interest of a lobby in the background, and I suspect it, among other things, that it has shared material throughout the national assembly, is of course technical reviewers, who will lose the 400 million I am talking about at the annual level - this is what I am talking about. In today's debate, no one has been able to prove any causal link between this shift from three to four years and one traffic accident alone, which is unprovable. On the contrary! All the statistics attached show that these connections, that there is no causal link, cannot be. Therefore, no accident will be due to this postponement of technical proposals, but it will be a simplification and savings for citizens. In recent years, Slovenians have been much more papal than the pope, and we have transposed European directives into our legal order by adding new additional requirements and burdening citizens and businesses. These have worked with great joy in the past, and now we have a whole pile of bureaucratic coatings, which we are now systematically and gradually cleaning, and this is such a typical case. If there are still many countries with this four plus two plus two and if the European Directive allows it, why would the Slovenians be more papal here than the pope? As for traffic permits and web extension, Mr Squeakl, don't talk about things you don't know, because what you said doesn't apply. The procedure runs in such a way that the marketing authorisation can be sent to the home if the customer wants to, even on Saturday, so you can turn off the option on the internet that you want to service the marketing licence on Saturday, and the mail will deliver it to you on Saturday. And when the mailman gives it to you, he takes over your old traffic permit at no cost to you, that is, free of charge. You said something completely different. That's the way you have to try, and then you can talk. As far as type-approval is concerned - what Mr Anderlich said, I agree. This is an area that still needs simplification and we are thinking about it very intensively and we will go into it. The argument that puts pressure on me the most is the argument that we want to be liked with this move. See, we are paid to improve the functioning of public administration, to facilitate the resolution of problems to people, to facilitate their procedures. My mission is, inter alia, to try, in my mandate, to remove as many administrative obstacles as possible, to simplify as many procedures as possible and thus make life as easy for citizens and businesses as possible. And if that's what people like - is that why they're supposed to step down from these projects now? It's always this kind of likeness. Our slogan is "Nice and efficient public administration". And if she is, then people will like it and thank God they like it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I'm re-inviting you to report. Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u49	You know, Mr. Minister, I buy a lot of these arguments of yours, but I don't know what letters you're talking about here. But we know what it's like with this type-approval. And you haven't answered that question - yes, you're aware that you're going to do something! But this is one of the major problems in bureaucratic procedures, if we're talking about it. One of the major bureaucratic obstacles is this. It's bigger than taking a technical exam. Secondly, the fact that you claim that there will be no more accidents is the same as saying that it is not proven how many were. We can argue about this here as long as we want, but we won't prove it to each other. All I know is that it would be right for the state to stimulate the way in which people with the poorest rolling stock or the most problematic which is, say, at the border between one - every year an obligation to go to technical inspection when the vehicle is older - and those up to three years. There, in this part is a lot of problems, because there are cars in there that fall under the criteria of up to seven years of age, until I don't know what, but they are technically even worse than those that have to go to the technical inspection every year. That's not the answer here. When we talk about a good, better driving park, we especially see what is going on in Ljubljana, which is driving every day, because the most critical driving park is one that is either driving at weekends or just outside when it comes to work or obligations etc. This is critical in terms of technical reasons. Here I would be happy if - just a little while ago, I remember that in some countries they've put an end to one or stimulated the issue of the old fleet, I'll say, less safe, etc., with the acceleration or the stimulation of the country. Here we would contribute most to the law bearing the title Road Safety, but not only to talk about whether it is one year up or one year down. That's why I'm saying that I have no argument on my own that my car is the same old car that I'm meeting on the road, and that they're carrying a very different mile, one of them or another, equally safe, is the decision I make for three or four years "over the finger". And that is why I think it would only be necessary to support this, but I will not say liking now, because if it was obvious that those who would now potentially support this amendment - and I support it from this point of view, because I have no argument, why would that change, which is now valid. If there were a more difficult argument and that there would be some flexibility within this distinction about the quality of vehicles and the need for these checks, of course, this confidence that we will all be going to preventive inspections is unlikely to mature for some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Now's our chance to alert you to some more technical news. In fact, as you can see on the list, colleague Presečnik is painted red. This, of course, does not mean any political affiliation, but that he does not have time. That's why I have to skip you and give my word to Mr Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u51	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I speak in particular about this appeal. I think whoever said something about it, of course, it wasn't bad or obvious. It was just that when the law changes, one part is done that is certainly one that is supposed to make life easier and easier for citizens to stay and simplify procedures, and that is certainly to say hello. The only question is if this part is really as valuable as, say, another consequence. I am sure that extending the deadline during the technical reviews is not so positive that it would outweigh the part which is well-intentioned and which is certainly for the benefit of all citizens. Once again, the frequency of traffic is increasing significantly. People have to travel several kilometres every day - they must, do not want or want to, or for luxury - perhaps within one year, as they sometimes do in ten years. Migration flows have changed significantly. You know that large centers actually pull everything within a radius of 80 kilometers every day, so calculate that. Over the course of three years, people have actually done so much that some of the older models would certainly have "stacked" somewhere on the road. So these are the things that I think must be taken into account. Statistical data, as available, I do not think is relevant enough. In fact, it is because the causes of accidents are always taken into account only for the first reason, and usually also the one that is the easiest to write down for a policeman, driving through the red light, I don't know, inappropriate speed, unadjusted speed to the driver, nothing about the vehicle, and so on. That's exactly why I think marriage is very questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We're trying again if anyone checks in. The application shall be made. The minister's checking in manually. There's no sign-in. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word with me? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The amendment to Article 16 will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 2100 hours. I hereby end this agenda item and also thank all the representatives of the government who have participated in this item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defense of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Protection Before Fire. We have 45 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I am giving the representative of the Government an opportunity to further explain and inviting Mr Bogotaj to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Allow me to begin by apologizing to the Minister and the Secretary of State for being detained because of previously agreed international obligations. By means of the proposed law, we conclude the most important part of the amendment of the legislation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. In addition to updating individual solutions, the fundamental aim is to remove those solutions that have not been validated in practice, including to ensure conditions for the further development of individual parts of the subsystem, with a view to improving rationality, efficiency and enhancing response to the different types of disasters associated with modern sources of threat. The substance of the amendments to the proposed law is that the area of fire protection programming and planning is included as an integral part in the programming and planning of protection against natural and other disasters in general. Spatial acts should take into account spatial fire protection measures, while building facilities should lay down these requirements by building regulations. The fire protection measures between different activities must be coordinated and linked. In residential, commercial and industrial facilities where there are multiple users, joint fire plans and evacuation plans shall be drawn up. Evacuation plans in facilities that are more at risk of fire or where more people are being gathered must be reviewed or trained annually in practice for their implementation. Only firefighters may carry out fire patrols in parts of fire-fighting facilities. In the process of obtaining a building permit, fire consent is required under the proposal of the law only for fire-fighting facilities. With the additions adopted by the home committee, the legal text is clearer and, on behalf of the proposer, we propose that you support and adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Allow me here a business comment, which is not meant personally, Mr Bogataj, but I must point out to 235th Article, which says that the position of the applicants or governments can only be represented by the Prime Minister, but ministers in the event that the Minister or the Prime Minister of the Government Service is absent, and the State Secretary or the Head of the Authority in the Ministry and Mr Richtaj does not fulfil this function, but because this is an exceptional situation, we have allowed it. I also do not have the authority to take the word away from someone who has already been declared and I have the authority to appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to take this into account in the future. However, I did not want to raise controversy with this comment, but Mr Anderlič, if you want to proceed on a procedural basis, you will not find any further argument than Article 235. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u55	I thank you for reminding me of what is an obligation and an integral part of working in the National Assembly and also the responsibility of the government. We have already had a discussion at the business committee in this meeting, but obviously nothing is involved and it has been explicitly agreed if you want or interpret a business commission so that this and this can represent a government on a particular issue. And that is why I understand when you say that you will warn the leadership that you will - the four of you are the leadership, probably the President and the three Vice-Presidents - that you will stick to what is our obligation. I ask myself, I know that this will not be possible, because you will probably do otherwise, but my procedural proposal is that you stop the point until those who have the right and the right to represent themselves before the assembly of the government or the specific matter that we continue to do so. There is no business possibility for us to continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. However, I propose that we continue the meeting for at least two reasons; firstly, the presentation has already been made; secondly, we are not even concluding that we should vote on this proposal. I propose - and this is my appeal to the government not to the leadership of the National Assembly - to take account of Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure in the future and not to further complicate the matter and waste time. Is that a business proposition again? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u57	There are no business conditions for the continuation of the meeting. I didn't want him to stop when you asked Mr. Bogotá to introduce him. And I took the first chance I had. It's nothing more than a constant relationship that's becoming more and more. But this is not the responsibility of the government, Mr. Vice President. This is the responsibility of the Head of the National Assembly to ensure that the point can be carried out. If they're not there, then the point doesn't work. Who's responsible, who's supposed to make sure they're conditions, probably doesn't make sense to debate here either. I don't want to go on like this at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will decide for myself that I will also bear the responsibility to continue with this point, because it has already begun. We have heard the presentation and, however, I invite you, Comrade Anderlich, to present the report as Chairman of the Committee. No, no, no. Okay, thank you very much. Then I'm inviting representatives of the parliamentary groups. First, I invite Mr Horvath to present the report of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Nicely greeted! The new Fire Protection Act aligns the normative solutions with the fire protection situation achieved and connects them with the new system arrangements for spatial planning and construction of buildings. The areas governed by the law are important for each individual, as well as for local communities and also for the country. Since the adoption of the basic law in 1993, many important things have changed. A great deal of new legislation and other rules have been adopted which have an impact on the law under consideration. It was therefore necessary to update and harmonize the law, in particular with the new regulation of interventions to the premises or construction of buildings and with the new Firearms Act. In doing so, it was necessary to regulate, in particular, fire protection of property in such a way that there would be no overlap with the tasks performed by the public fire service operators. The law requires that, in planning and implementing fire protection measures in the natural environment, they should cooperate with owners and other land users and with the Slovenian Forest Institute, including organisations operating road, rail and other infrastructure in the natural environment. In this way, general fire protection measures are extended in the natural environment and ensure greater coordination in their planning, organisation and implementation. The law thus broadens the importance of the participation of various factors and activities in the space in the implementation of fire protection measures in the natural environment. In Nova Slovenija we welcome the solutions that fire safety studies only produce for certain types of facilities determined by the competent minister in agreement with the Minister responsible for the construction of the buildings. The content of the fire safety study will be determined by a specific regulation. Fire safety studies shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of only natural and legal persons who comply with the conditions laid down. The Fire Protection Act will no longer define these conditions as these conditions for responsible designers and auditors in the field of fire protection have already been regulated by construction regulations. As can be seen from the presentation of our Group's position, we will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Zagorec to the floor. Practicing procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u61	Mr Vice-President, with all due respect for you, I know that you are in an extremely difficult situation, because, of course, the members of the opposition you belong to want nothing but respect for the rules of procedure. Mr Bogotaj too, it is not our procedural proposal against your person, but it is against the fact that the Minister and the Secretary of State, despite the fact that the meeting was scheduled for Friday, where it was clear that today, somewhere between 10 and 11 a.m., the point of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act would not have decided that they would not be present at the meeting. In accordance with Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, I find that the business conditions are not met, so I propose, Mr President, that you apply the first paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: "The President may suspend the meeting of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when the meeting will continue." Stop and the meeting will continue as soon as Mr Erjavec or Mr State Secretary Žnidaršič arrives, of course. At that time, of course, the Chairman of the Defence Committee will be able to present his position, which I think is, of course, also formally wrong now, the position of the parent working body has not been presented, and then we will continue. I think these are the marks that apply in this national council. Why do we now leave this practice out or change it, I do not go into it, but after we have written it down in the Rules of Procedure, in this regard, we have decided on the Rules of Procedure Commission, because it is one of the Members' proposals, and by chance this Member is the President of the National Assembly, it has been proposed that we respect this provision of the Rules of Procedure most. When we allow this to happen in this national assembly, it will be a practice and then, of course, we will only watch ministers on the Internet. Presidents, I propose to you, first paragraph of Article 73 - stop and say that the meeting will continue when the government tells you when Mr Erjavec or Mr Žnidaršič will arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I think that we have repeatedly pointed out clearly and loudly today the present article, warned the government and everyone else who is competent to respect the rules of procedure, and that is, in my opinion, enough. Let me remind you, as a lawyer, that one of the fundamental principles of all legal, judicial, criminal, administrative and parliamentary procedures is the principle of economics, the principle of rationality, and that is why I continue this meeting. To the word of Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposed amendment to the Fire Protection Act in the introductory part of the Act provides an accurate assessment of the status and implementation of the applicable law. This assessment shows some shortcomings in the current regulation, which is somewhat behind legislation in other areas, areas closely linked to fire protection. There is probably no need to stress that recent fires in Slovenia are relatively common. In addition to the emergence of arsonists, which, of course, cannot be affected by this law, the number of fires in companies or companies associated with the occurrence of major material damage has been increasing in particular recently. At least part of these fires could probably be prevented or at least mitigated by their consequences. For example, the current regime also creates ambiguities in the area of the powers of asset protection services and the public fire service. Such ambiguities do not, of course, contribute to effective fire protection. The law must therefore be aligned with the Fires Act, with the legal arrangements for interventions to the premises or construction of buildings, with the new terminology already laid down by other laws, and so on. The note provides that the tasks of fire protection at national and local level shall be laid down in the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters and in the annual plan. The existing national programme of protection against natural and other disasters was adopted by means of both the law on protection against natural and other disasters and the law on protection against fire because the preparation of the national programme showed that it was not advisable to prepare two separate national programmes. Such a solution is, in our view, appropriate and, of course, should not diminish the importance of fire protection in this way. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the comments made by some institutions that insufficient attention has been paid to the current national fire protection programme. Rationalisation, simplification and a comprehensive approach are welcome only with equal regard to all areas covered by the national programme. Let us also mention firefighting and evacuation plans, which play an important role in ensuring effective fire protection or reduce risks and damage in the event of fire. Their importance is often not known, for it is only evident when the fire actually occurs. The novelty introduces a novelty, a new obligation for owners and users of fire-fighting facilities, in which more people are being gathered to undertake training at least once a year to carry out evacuations from the facility at the time of the fire. Among other things, this measure will be compulsory for schools and other facilities where more people are being gathered. Such exercises are, of course, necessary for people to know how to react in the event of a fire. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore believe that the law is pursuing the right objectives and that is why we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, chairman. Allow me to express my support for both procedural decisions at the beginning of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. It seems to me that this few Members who are sitting here now should receive certain answers from adequate interlocutors who have not been assured by the government at this meeting or when considering this very important law. Perhaps not important at first sight, but of all my predecessors, it was clear what the consequences were when the fire came. I myself have some questions that I will address to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding this law, and I hope that I will get adequate answers from the people responsible for implementing this law, not from someone who is here today just because there are no empty chairs behind my back and that it looks like someone is participating in this meeting. As far as the law itself is concerned, as I said in the introduction, it is a very important law for the protection against fires in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, we support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party. However, the issues raised will not be explained by all the disasters that have already been caused by the fire in Slovenia, because I believe that someone else will do it after me and people have already done it before me. With regard to the financing of fire protection tasks at local level, it is necessary to re-evaluate the tasks of local communities in the field of fire protection as part of the preparation of the new Community Financing Act. We are aware, I believe, that all of us here together, even though the Minister is not and I do not know of his opinion whether or not he realizes that without adequate financial resources, the situation in the field of fire protection will not be improved. Therefore, my first question: where are the addresses from which resources are intended to provide financial resources for the implementation of the so-called Crassus programme, as well as for the implementation of all other matters affecting fire protection? The question is very specific, I believe I will also get very concrete answers. From what sources does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia think to draw money to protect against fires? In my opinion, the Ministry of Defence must also adopt similar programmes for other fire-prone areas in the Republic of Slovenia. I am interested and ask again the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Are other fire protection programmes, such as the Crassus programme, also being prepared for other areas in the Republic of Slovenia, or is it just this area, which is actually the most threatened area, but is threatened, we know, by other areas? Are other programs being prepared? If, when can we expect them, and if we can even expect them, where will you get the financial resources also for the implementation of this, given that when I read the bill before us, I have seen that there are no financial consequences. However, I am very skeptical that without sufficient financial resources there will also be no adequate fire safety in the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I so skeptical? Because, even when we have protection against hail, we know that the hailstone caused some damage in the Republic of Slovenia this year, there was no adequate protection against hail, despite the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, no financial resources are provided and this defence is not implemented and I am afraid that the government is similarly preparing for the Fire Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, the main objective of which is to harmonise regulatory solutions with the situation achieved in this area. We believe that the adoption of the law is necessary because the law in force is now obsolete and its solutions in practice have proved to be irrational. In the DeSUS Group, we stress that the new solutions must have a major impact on the reduction of the potential for fires, which makes the proposal under consideration possible today. We believe that spatial planning already needs to take into account spatial fire protection measures, such as the conditions for a safe retreat between facilities, access, imports and the like, and thus establish minimum standards for the construction and construction of buildings. So far, experience with large fires in industrial facilities and facilities where more people are gathered shows that they are mostly the result of maintenance works, so we believe it is necessary for fire safety to be carried out by qualified firefighters. We estimate that such a solution will certainly contribute to reducing the number of large industrial fires we have witnessed recently and will also shorten intervention time. In order to achieve the objective of improving general fire safety, adequate financial resources are needed. In this regard, we believe that it is essential to ensure a stable and stable source of funding for protection and rescue in all municipalities, and we therefore stress the need to adopt appropriate tax rules that will enable the implementation of the fire tax. In the DeSUS Group, we support such a bill because it gives us rational and good solutions, but also takes into account good practice in individual Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I call on my colleague Horvath on behalf of the SDS. Please. Excuse me, "lapsus linque", Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! In 1993, a law on fire protection was passed, which was among the first laws in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. In the past period, the system of protection against natural and other disasters has also been in place in the field of fire protection, which is an important part of this system. Today, we are faced with changes and additions to the Fire Protection Act, the main purpose of which is to harmonise normative solutions with the situation achieved in this area, their linkage with the new system arrangements for spatial planning and construction of buildings, while also simplifying procedures for the enforcement of these measures. General fire protection measures also include annual practical training for the execution of evacuations from facilities. Firefighting is generally carried out by firefighters, only in certain parts also by persons trained in firefighting. Based on past experience and the assessment of the causes of fires in industrial facilities, these were mostly produced in maintenance works. We therefore welcome the solution in the law, which stipulates that firefighters are carried out by firefighters in more endangered facilities in accordance with the Fire Act. In this way, we are confident in the SDS Group of Members that the number of large fires at the more endangered facilities will be significantly reduced. In accordance with the systematic changes in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, the role and competence of the Slovenian Inspectorate for the protection of natural and other accidents is also changing, so that part of its competences will be linked to the consent of the more demanding facilities transferred to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. In this way, the possibility of a more extensive and efficient inspection work will be increased. As a new obligation for owners and users of facilities that are more likely to be at risk of fire or where more people are being gathered, the law provides that, at least once a year, they must conduct training for evacuation from the facility. Among other things, this measure will be compulsory for schools and other facilities where more people are being gathered. In the light of past years' experience and the fact that these amendments and legislative additions cover appropriate solutions that will shorten intervention times, thereby increasing the effectiveness of firefighting, we believe that amendments to legislation in this area are necessary in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, so we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Anderlich to the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u71	Your Honor! The Liberal Democracy Club supports the law, but I did not take the floor to say so, because the law on the tables is needed, technically, so that it will probably endure, but because of its strong protest, once again. At times, in their previous mandate, the opposition was told that they were hoping for Members of Parliament and that there was no way to discuss it. The term economy is now used. What does the term economy mean in parliamentary work? That you go beyond the Rules of Procedure, which make it clear that a meeting should be suspended or cannot be resumed if the Rules of Procedure have been violated? Is that economy? On behalf of what efficiency do we sit here? To simply rule out some of the things the government has imposed as necessary to take them through Parliament or to present the position of the committee on the basis of what needs to be done in this room, that is, to have competent government representatives who will present their views, and, of course, to present the position of the committee at this stage, because it is not the amendments, the position of the groups of Members. No, but this is no longer possible in our National Assembly, nor will practice, nor will it ever be. The law is now technically prepared so that it is possible to receive, as I said. He was very ill-prepared. The Legislative and Legal Service had serious comments on 14 articles in 36 articles, and the Committee corrected everything in cooperation with the Government. The Government agreed, except in the transitional and final provisions, when the law should enter into force or when it should be applied, which was adopted by the Committee against the will of the Government. So inadequately prepared legislation, the committee amends it more than a third, the need for a government representative to speak competently before this assembly and to ensure that the law actually achieves its purpose, no, ignorance, as is the practice of the Minister and the Ministry of Defence throughout this mandate. Unheard of ignorance and underestimation of the National Assembly. There's nothing else we can find here. However, in order to assist, this way of work is also assisted by the leadership of the National Assembly, but it is not heard about parliamentaryism in Slovenia. You will not find such a case anywhere in any House of Western European States or anywhere, it is simply not. As I said, we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Group, because we believe that the purpose that the law intends to regulate is such that it is likely to achieve what is on the agenda, but regretting that these things cannot be done in this way if we want to be Parliament. Someone has already said that we do not need so much in the present times of Parliament, because we have a large coalition and the rest of the opposition in partnership, which means that everything on Gregorčič could be taken care of. But just keep an eye on beauty, keep an eye on the impression you give, so it doesn't look like you really don't need an absolute government for Parliament or the public or anything else. This is really unacceptable to me after the construction of these democratic mechanisms in the last twelve, fifteen years since the National Assembly, when I count down that first assembly, because some would say that it was not democratic, even though the elections were democratic in that first assembly. And since we should stop the item after the letter of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that the Vice-President will inform the President that there has been a serious crack at this point at today's meeting and that there will be no such thing in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlič, the question is, who was more in breach of the rules of procedure - or when I decided to continue the meeting, or you who used the position of the Group of Members to give us a business lesson; of course, I leave the decision to others. However, we continue with the debate, or the presentation of positions, and I invite the latter to the word of Mr Han, on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Another farce in the National Assembly. I must agree with my predecessors, especially Anderlich and Mr Squill, given that today's Rules of Procedure have been broken again. But in the spirit of economics, I will only say that the Social Democrats support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you so much for your economy and for your kindness. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 28 September 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank all those present for their cooperation. We're moving to four. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill of administrative dispute. We have 47 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There is no doubt that the business conditions are met here. Among us is the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marolt, whom I invite to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today you have before you a proposal for a new law on the administrative dispute. In the implementation of the current law on the administrative dispute, certain shortcomings have proved to be leading us to a new proposal for a law. One of the important reasons is the extremely large caseload of cases before the administrative court and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2005, the Administrative Court received 4,369 new disputes or 20.6% higher cases. Although the court resolved 2% more administrative disputes than it had been a year before, the number of outstanding administrative disputes increased by 6.9%. The increase in cases also led to the extension of the time needed to take a decision and the increase of judicial backlogs in this area. As you know, on the basis of the caselaw of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and of the European Court of Human Rights, there are also limits to the legal time allowed to proceed with judicial proceedings, which of course also apply to the administrative judiciary. The reason for the large downturn in the current administrative dispute regime is the duplication of the possibility of judicial protection, since one can raise several disputes in relation to the same subject matter of the decision, at the same time, even with exceptional remedies in the procedures for issuing an administrative act. This, on the one hand, increases the burden of the courts and, on the other hand, leads to greater inefficiency of legal protection of the position of an individual. In certain cases, such legal arrangements shall also be used by the parties in order to prevent or make it difficult to obtain a legal decision on the matter. After the current regulation on the case, the administrative authority, then the ministry, then the administrative court, and finally the Supreme Court. To sum up, the length of the court's decision is therefore unacceptable both in terms of the State's responsibility and the fact that the length of the proceedings reduces the level of legal certainty and confidence in the rule of law and the rule of law. The new legal regime of the administrative court is also one of the measures in the joint state project, the project to remedy judicial backlogs, which is the LUKENDA project. With this bill, we have found ways to increase the efficiency of decision-making in an administrative dispute, despite the limited capacity of the judicial system, while at the same time continuing to protect the rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to effective judicial protection in the event of violations of their rights and legal benefits. Let me sum it up. The main objectives pursued by the proposed new regulation of the legal dispute are: 1. increase the efficiency of court decisions on the administrative dispute; 2. shortening judicial proceedings in order to increase the confidence of the people in the functioning of the courts; 3. to prevent unreasonable delays in the trial at the time of uninterrupted legal certainty. To this end, we have written down the following specific solutions to the law. We have established criteria in which cases a certain act is considered an administrative act and can be challenged in an administrative dispute. The proposal provides that the subject matter of judicial review in an administrative dispute shall also be the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms against individual acts and acts of authorities. About the organisation of the courts. We maintain an arrangement whereby, in the administrative dispute at first instance, the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court decide at first instance on the legality of the acts of the electoral authorities and on administrative means of appeal and audit. An important novelty is the decision by a judge to an individual in an administrative court, with decisive criteria for when a judge will decide an individual depending on the importance and complexity of an individual case. These are: for the first time, if the value of the subject matter in cases where the right or obligation of the parties is expressed in monetary value does not exceed EUR 20,000, this is not an important legal issue. Secondly, where procedural decisions are challenged in the process of issuing an administrative act. Thirdly, if it is an easy factual and legal situation. And for the fourth time, if the contested administrative act has such shortcomings that it cannot be tested. We are introducing the subjective concept of an administrative dispute, as the administrative dispute is intended to protect the rights and legal interests of individuals. This means that only parties protecting their rights or legal benefits may take part in the proceedings. Furthermore, the draft law clearly defines the powers of the courts to take decisions. The purpose of this regime is to increase the effectiveness of the courts and to ensure judicial protection only if the legal situation of an individual is affected. In its decision on the matter, the court shall have the possibility of abolishing an administrative act, so-called a cassation, or of deciding on a matter, a dispute of full jurisdiction, or of issuing a judgment or judgment imposing the abolition of certain acts in the event of infringements found. The proposal also lays down new developments in the area of legal remedies. The right to appeal against the administrative court’s judgment limits the law’s proposal only to cases where, on the basis of other facts, the administrative court takes a decision in a dispute of full jurisdiction to replace the decision of the administration. Such a bill allows for a complaint only when the court has only found a different factual situation than the defendant’s finding and has amended the contested administrative act on that basis. In order to ensure uniformity of case law and legal protection in the event of the most serious infringements, the law provides for a decision on the basis of exceptional remedies, including, first and foremost, on the basis of an audit. In addition to protecting the rights of the individual, the objectives of the audit shall also be to protect the legal unity and development of the law. Only substantive and procedural errors of the judgment shall be assessed in the audit process, and not the shortcomings in the determination of the actual situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I invite the President, Ambassador Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry, to the fellow Members and to fellow Members! At its regular 24th meeting, on 13.9, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on administrative dispute. Mr Lovro Šturm, Minister for Justice, said in the context of the complementary explanation of the articles of the bill that the main objectives of the bill are to increase the efficiency of court decisions in the administrative dispute, to reduce judicial proceedings with a view to increasing people's confidence in the functioning of the courts, and to prevent unreasonable delays in the trial. He also described in detail the other solutions to the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in his opening remarks, stated that the comments made by this service in the written opinion were largely taken into account by the amendments tabled or responded to by a written opinion delivered by the Ministry of Justice. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, reiterated the comments made by this service on Articles 4, 32 and 107 of the draft law, which he also mentioned in their written opinion. The proposaler, i.e. the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, explained, in those comments, that the application of the concept of an act of public authority is more appropriate in Article 4 of the Law" because it specifically states that only those acts committed in the context of the exercise of public authority can be challenged in an administrative dispute. With regard to the remark to Article 32, the Minister explained that the proposed new text of the third paragraph of Article 32 of the Law introduces qualitative progress in the protection of affected and vulnerable individuals, since, in addition to certain cases, it extends the possibility of such judicial protection. With regard to the comment to Article 107, they explained that the administrative doctrine did not clearly set a limit between the determination of the actual situation and the application of the law, which would potentially lead to some cases, according to the applicant, being not too numerous, to be classified under the wrong application of the law and that the courts could resolve them on that basis without thereby violating the rights of the complainants for this reason. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the Judicial Council. A representative of the Judicial Council also took part in the meeting and said that the Council of Justice was in favour of the law and that their comments to Article 110 were also taken into account by the amendment adopted. It was also supported by the State Council, the Commission for the Political System, and further pointed out Article 157 of the Constitution of Slovenia. In the debate, the members and members of the committee supported the proposal for a law, mainly because it contributes to improving the efficiency of judicial decision-making in the administrative dispute and thus to reducing judicial backlogs and increasing legal certainty. Complementary amendments, amendments to coalition parliamentary groups were tabled within the time limit of business, namely Articles 6, 17, 77, 108, 109 and 110. The amendments were accepted. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the law together and proposed them for adoption to this well-respected assembly, and an integral part of the report is also a complementary draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite Mr President to present the position of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. During the current term of office of the National Assembly, we have already adopted a number of laws or amended laws with a view to reducing judicial backlogs. The Administrative Dispute Act on this objective is no exception. In addition to reducing judicial backlogs, the fact that the applicable law on administrative dispute in many ways is flawed or inadequate is a cause of many complications. It is particularly problematic that the current law allows for a very wide use of the administrative dispute, which is often misused. The administrative dispute can also be used by defendants who are not affected by the contested legal act, and the courts must also decide when only procedural acts are contested. However, a two-step decision with a complaint on an administrative dispute means that, before the jurisdiction of an administrative case, a decision shall be taken at a maximum of four stages. However, such arrangements are, of course, most appropriate in terms of legal certainty and the rule of law. The adoption of a new law on administrative dispute is therefore necessary and necessary. In his explanation of the law, the applicant also stated: The main objective of the proposed new legislation is to increase the efficiency of court decision-making in the administrative dispute and to reduce judicial proceedings in order to increase the confidence of people in the functioning of the courts and to prevent unreasonable delays in the trial. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the law follows the stated objective. The law regulates judicial protection in an appropriate manner against decisions of administrative authorities, i.e. public authorities, local authorities and holders of public powers. During the news, it is particularly welcome to be able to judge an individual when it comes to simple and less complicated matters. This solution brings both the burden of the courts and the reduction of judicial proceedings. The current regime, which provides for mandatory parliamentary decision-making, is not comparable in particular in terms of the role and position of the Administrative and Supreme Court when it comes to decisions in an administrative dispute. In contrast to compulsory Senate decision-making in an administrative dispute, even when it comes to minor matters, a judge in a criminal procedure may decide even to sentence an individual to a prison term. An important provision that clearly lays down the criteria in which an act may be regarded as an administrative act and thus may be challenged in an administrative dispute. This ensures the essence of an administrative dispute, which is the effective legal protection of an individual. The introduction of the subjective concept of the dispute and the new powers of the courts in the decision-making of the courts and the audit as an exceptional legal remedy provide a sufficiently high level of judicial control over administrative decisions, while at the same time bringing about an appropriate rationalisation of the current proceedings. In accordance with the subjective concept, only a party protecting its rights or legal benefits may participate in an administrative dispute. However, despite the rationalisation of the procedures, the proposed law also has certain financial implications, and the additional resources required will be made available through redeployments within the framework of the financial plan of the Supreme and Administrative Court and the Ministry of Justice, following the proposals of the proposer. So the law is also acceptable from a financial point of view. In considering this law, it is imperative to stress the fact that the draft law supports both the Council of Justice and the Commission for the political system of the Council of State. The draft law was also approved by only a few amendments on the home committee, which did not materially intervene in the law, and no new amendments were tabled in the National Assembly. Since the law is well prepared and supported by the professional public, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you once again for your word, chairman. Unlike the previous law, where the government has shown all its ignorance towards this well-respected assembly, I must say in this law that Comrade Marolt is regularly present when it comes to proposals for laws. Despite the fact that in the proposal for an administrative dispute law, the government states that the law in force has come to life in practice, it is now being amended again, despite the fact that we have already changed such a law at the beginning of this year. Therefore, I am somewhat distracted by the allegations that the current one has come to life, but of course it is not so good that it can be effective, but it needs to be changed a little today. In this law, as in the previous one, the main objective is to increase the efficiency of court decision-making, thus reducing the judicial backlogs that occur in the courts, but in what way and at what costs. Another matter that is very fleeing us in the Slovenian National Party is the fact that the unconstitutionality or the alleged unconstitutionality of the bill, which was pointed out by the legal and legislative service of this house, has only been eliminated on the home labour body. I'm interested in how the government imagines sending laws to the National Assembly for consideration, and they are not in line with the Constitution until the mother's working body meets, and then expects this unconstitutionality to eliminate the mother's working body here. I think I'm going to say that absolutely unacceptable. As far as the financial consequences of the law are concerned, which is supposed to reduce judicial backlogs, I must say that additional employment is expected to cost 89.3 million Slovenian tolars. The cost of computer equipment, which I believe will make it easier for every judge to work, would be 10.5 million Slovenian tolars, additional costs that are not qualified, 4 million tolars and the rent of 62.4 million Slovenian tolars, says an additional approximately 166 million Slovenian tolars to reduce judicial backlogs. If we listen to the suggestions of the Slovenian National Party to reduce judicial backlogs in accordance with the principle of a limited judicial mandate, or the withdrawal of a permanent judicial mandate, we could avoid all costs incurred over the last two years or eight years in an attempt to remedy judicial backlogs. These costs are, all those who have been following this issue for a long time, over 1 billion Slovenian tolars, and we still have the same judicial backlog as we did when we started dealing with them. So we're spreading the taxpayer's money so we don't have any effect. For the various laws of the judiciary, as I have already said, it has always been necessary to re-engage people, to spend the new additional money just to make it easier for judges protected by their permanent mandate as some kind of "holy cow" to work with the Minister and to attribute to themselves how they effectively overturned the judicial backlogs. That's why we've used taxpayer money so far. At the same time, it will be forgotten that every month we have changed laws that are supposed to have an effective impact, and every additional month we spend new money, but we always keep enough reserve money so that we can do it for a while. And the answer I'd like from a government representative is, how much money is going to cost us. According to the analyses that I believe this government has, because this government is the government that has all the analyses before any law at all proposes, regardless of whether it is sometimes unconstitutional, after these expert analyses, how much money and how much time it takes and how much time to change the laws to bring back the judicial backlogs once again to the limits of normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the floor on behalf of DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much again. Well, given the fact that the material for this law is prepared on more than a hundred pages, that the marriage has a strong hundred articles, that the substance is relative, at least for those who are not lawyers, one would think that it is a serious matter. However, when you look back at the hall, you find that about five or six missing persons are present for one member or a member present, and this impression of the seriousness of the debate of course fades. Well, it's still worth saying a few words. For the introduction, I should say that the DeSUS Group supports the adoption of this law because it assesses that the proposed solutions are appropriate and that they will help to remedy some of the weaknesses that we have recorded in the past. However, it is also true that we Slovenians are almost favoured by the courts, that we have no special prejudices before being there too often, so statistics show as compared to other European countries and nations, and that some walk to the courts is almost already a hobby or recreation. This frequency of conflicts is, as a result, a negative repercussion with regard to over-occupation, in view of the onset of the increase and of which we have heard today. This also means that these backlogs in the resolution of legal disputes, including administrative disputes, of course, give rise to the impression or belief among people that the courts are ineffective, that our legal order is such that it cannot be relied upon, and so on. In short, the whole type of weakness is shown by the government's intention to abolish this bill. The bill has also received some support for those who know how to judge, but it is true that some concerns have been overlooked, particularly with regard to the question whether there may also be something that should be called retroactivity in this bill. The solutions proposed by the government, which prevent so-called abuse, over-inclusion of administrative disputes, solutions that give a little more confidence to the individual judge under the general principle of being tried by the Senate, in short, the whole range of solutions is one that raises some hope that even with the help of this law, judicial backlogs will be reduced and therefore we have no doubts in the DeSUS Group on the support of this law. However, I would like to draw attention to just one modest thing, which may not even be understood enough, but at least it seems questionable if we are not saying something sharper. The fact that the Ombudsman is, in effect, obliged to listen first to the Government, which gives him the power to represent the legal interest and this is somewhat different in this law than in the Law on Defence, where we read that the Advocates are independent and that, in my judgment, they could act independently and without order and without the power of the Government, as they did in terms of protection of the public interest. And another modest thought is that, while it is right that the State has the assistant of an attorney, that something like this should be needed at local level, of course we do not. The DeSUS Group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to my colleague Jeraeva to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. In the 2005 Constitutional Decision, our Constitutional Judges decided that the applicable law on administrative dispute was inconsistent with the Constitution. Among other things, it has been stated that each judiciary, together with the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time frame, must also provide an effective remedy in the event of a violation of this right. However, Slovenian legislation does not have such a means, it has been added. It is a right which is one of the essential conditions for the effective enjoyment of all other human rights. If the prosecution comes too late, the injured person is in the same position as when he does not even have judicial protection. The legislator was ordered to remove such a finding of non-compliance with the administrative dispute law with the Constitution within one year. Slovenia is faced with large judicial backlogs. In the area of administrative dispute, the number of judicial arrears is highest. The law now before us is the result of the Ministry of Justice's efforts to do everything in its power to reduce judicial backlogs. The Administrative Dispute Act, adopted in 1997, highlighted certain shortcomings in its implementation in practice. It has also proved very problematic to duplicate the possibility of judicial protection. In this way, someone has been able to initiate several disputes in relation to the same subject matter, at the same time using exceptional remedies in the procedures for issuing an administrative act. This has led to an extremely large number of cases before the administrative court and the Supreme Court department, but has not contributed to the greater effectiveness of the legal protection of the position of the individual. The various analyses we see in the media show that the number of judicial backlogs in the area of the administrative dispute is growing, and we welcome the rapid reaction of the Ministry of Justice to such a pressing issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In our view, the proposal for a new law on administrative dispute is not only good but also urgently needed. There is no doubt that the proposal is adequately prepared, as it contains solutions for which the profession is also relatively uniform. We fully support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Potch has the floor, on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democrats' Group, we support the bill's proposal, as well as the amendments that we have adopted together on the home work body, the Justice Committee. The law is part of the efforts of the Minister of Justice and the Government to reduce judicial backlogs, which are also important in resolving administrative disputes. We certainly support these efforts, although sometimes they do not deliver the right results and sometimes they may promise too much. However, we support them because it is one of the rare laws in the field of justice, on which the Ministry's views are almost entirely consistent with the opinion of the profession, the competent courts, and also in the legislative and legal service, with the exception of a few warnings that have been taken into account, there have been no major issues. Therefore, although the basic objective of the law is to remedy judicial backlogs, I must say that unfortunately, the government does not provide some clear quantitative guarantees in this regard. This may not be possible, but it would be right because the underlying reason for this law is much more economical and rational in the resolution of administrative disputes and because there are many judicial setbacks in this area, too, so that the government may draw up a special programme and inform us how administrative disputes in our country are more effectively resolved because of and when this law is adopted. Secondly, while the entire legal profession has also, under the influence of international practice, advocated the resolution of an administrative dispute within the framework of the administrative court and the broad powers given at the time by the Administrative Dispute Act of 1997, we now come to the conclusion that a lot of competence must be reduced, that it is necessary to allow an individual judge to be able to resolve administrative disputes only with regard to affected persons, that the appeal is possible only if the actual situation is changed, that the audit is very limited and so on, which is certainly rationalisation in the procedure, is a greater economic efficiency of the procedure. We hope that the somewhat broader main treatment itself will not mean much more work and costs for the court, but we will probably have to assess whether this economy and rationality also mean sufficient and appropriate use of remedies to protect the affected. The Ministry and, frankly, the profession also assess that the legal security of the affected and the legality of the decision-making bodies will not be affected. We will monitor this aspect and these claims from the other side, especially because, in principle, such promises are not to be believed, because there are too many cases that also point to attempts by the current executive authority, that the political authorities are also subordinated to the state administration, that they place politically compatible people in the most responsible places and in different ways, in particular through attempts at wage legislation, as well as by the appointment of the Presidents of the courts, also affects how powers are exercised in the courts within the framework of administrative organisational and financial powers and competences, and this has a certain impact on the independence and independence of the courts. We will ensure and propose that appropriate reports are made in this respect, but in view of the unity of this moment, we support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much. And the latter will present the position of NSI Mrs Kucler Dolinar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u89	In the New Slovenia Group, we see the law on the administrative dispute, which we consider today as another of the laws in the package in the fight against judicial backlogs. Even in the administrative court, as administrative disputes rise, more and more judicial backlogs are being collected and the administrative court is becoming increasingly saturated and a new solution needs to be sought and found. Last year alone, there were 20% more administrative disputes than the year before. In the customs area, belonging increased by 17%, 27% tax, in the area of inspection of about 30%. In the event of such procedural legislation, it is almost impossible to reduce the backlog of cases, so according to New Slovenia's assessment, the proposal for a law to be dealt with today responds to the shortcomings of the regulation so far. So far, it has also been possible to raise several administrative disputes from one administrative issue, which on the other, is contrary to efficiency and legal certainty. The parties used the legal options often to delay proceedings, which led to several years of decision-making on certain rights, and eventually led the case to the European Court of Human Rights. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for an administrative dispute law will try to reduce the dissatisfaction of individuals, as well as to reduce the compensation paid by our country due to an unreasonable trial. This will, at least so we hope and we are sure, increase the efficiency of court decision-making and, as a result, reduce the proceedings. The law also provides for a certain limitation on the scope of the trial, a judge-to-judge trial where the right or obligation of the party resulting from its application does not exceed EUR 20 000. Legal remedies, in particular complaints, are also limited due to the practice of delaying legal proceedings, as has already been said, but legal certainty is not limited. The appeal shall be permitted only against the judgment of the Court of First Instance if the Court has only established the actual situation and is merely amending the administrative act in the judgment or against the legality of acts which prejudice human rights and freedoms. Complaints will thus only be made by parties who have participated at the first stage and as far as remedies are concerned, the remedy for the review shall be admissible in certain cases where the appeal is excluded. Material and procedural errors are controlled, not the shortcomings of the actual situation found. In addition to protecting the rights of the individual, the aim of the audit is also to unify legal practice and to develop the law, which we must certainly aim to achieve. The application for protection of legality is no longer possible and is replaced by a revision, since, according to practice and also to legal opinions, no specific justification can be found for a wide range of remedies as it has been so far. In New Slovenia, we support the proposed amendments to the law and hope that all the new developments and other solutions will help to shorten proceedings as soon as possible before the administrative court.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you for your presentation and thank you to Vice-President Pavlich for his leadership so far. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 28 September, within the framework of the point of vote. This also interrupts this agenda item. Thank you for your participation. And we're moving on to 5. Point of the agenda - Secondly, the proposal for a law amending the law on the registered interest rate of default. I hereby inform you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u91	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest was confirmed by the Government on 14 June of this year and then forwarded to the national assembly for consideration on a regular basis. Allow me to present briefly the essential solutions set out in the bill below. The Act on the prescribed interest rate of late interest in 2003 regulates the interest rate of late interest and its legal basis is the Bond Relations Act. Deferred interest is a legal penalty in case the debtor violates its contractual obligation by delaying payment of the cash liability. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 378 of the Bond Code, a debtor who is late in fulfilling a financial obligation owes in addition to the principal of the late interest. The late interest shall run within the period from the maturity of the monetary duty to its payment, i.e. for the period of delay. The late interest owed by law is owed by law when the contract is not negotiated or the parties do not agree on a different amount of interest rate of late interest as prescribed by the law. The prescribed interest rate on late interest on tolar claims is defined at nominal level and at annual level is 13.5%, with a decrease of 12.5% annually from 1 July 2006. However, claims in foreign currency shall be subject to an interest rate of 8 % as set out in Article 378 of the Bond Code. By taking over the euro of the European common currency as of 1 January 2007, this will be our domestic money or currency in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, there is no reasonable reason for claims in foreign currency, such as Swiss francs or US dollars, to have a different legal late interest. The new law extends the scope of the law to all monetary obligations. Taking over the euro will be possible to link the interest rate of late interest to the rate of refinancing of the European Central Bank. The proposal for a new law thus prescribes the interest rate of late interest, consisting of a leading interest rate increase of 8%. It shall be determined 2 times a year and shall apply for at least 6 months. The Minister responsible for the financing shall be empowered to publish the fixed interest rate of late interest in the Official Year of the Republic of Slovenia for the publication of each time. Thus, the calculated amount of the prescribed interest rate would now be approximately 10.5% at the annual level. Amendments and additions to the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest are not necessary for the purpose of taking over the euro, but the application or application of those amendments makes sense and is only possible with the date on which the euro is taken over. The Government considers that these solutions and the proposed amendments are appropriate and necessary and therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for the introduction. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 20th meeting on 14 September, the Committee of the National Monetary Policy Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest. It was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on Articles 2 and 4. These comments were taken into account in the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which was also later adopted. We were also briefed on the Committee by the Commission of the State Economic Council of 20.7.2006. The Act on the prescribed rate of late interest was adopted in June 2003 and regulates the interest rate of late interest on tolar claims and the debtor owes them under the law itself where the contract is not negotiated or the parties do not agree on a different rate of interest on late interest as prescribed by the law. This law abolished the legal regime of indexation at that time, and the prescribed interest rate of late interest was fixed at nominal level. At the time, in June 2006, I think 17%, the change implemented by the Government under Article 2 of the Act was reduced to 15.5, and then to 13.5% in December 2005. Since May, this late interest rate has been set at 12.5%. By taking over the euro, it will be possible to attach the prescribed interest rate of late interest to the rate of refinancing of the European Central Bank. This is 2.5% at this point and the law provides for an additional 8% on this basis, thus calculating the interest rate from now on 10.5%. It means that it is decreasing, the government had to take into account value, economic movements and inflation before, and this also had an impact on interest rate reductions. The law applies, irrespective of the currency, and this law also respects Directive 2000/35 of the European Council, which provides for this basis, as I mentioned earlier, increased by 7%, which is the minimum, but what is more, I would say, penalties for non-payments, and is the discretionary right of an individual member of the European Union. This proposal is 8% and is the same as used for foreign late interest in foreign currencies. In accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendment I mentioned earlier. And we are also making such a proposal in support of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for presenting the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. In other words, it is good that we have before us a law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest, because if we read the data contained in this material, we can find that this is a significant improvement in the situation. It's not long ago when we were talking about completely different numbers, numbers that were alarming, either it was inflation, or it was interest, interest and interest rates. In short, it seems in the past that a good enough work has been done so that at least we can be generally satisfied. Therefore, the position of the DeSUS Group in relation to this proposed law is short but favoured; in the end, the law itself is short. During that period, when we talked about very high numbers, it happened that the economic situation has changed significantly, that other international situations have also changed significantly with our inclusions in different associations, and that this meant that, even if we did not want to do so, we must follow directives and other guidelines that are adopted elsewhere, but we have also decided on this reduced sovereignty. This material, which we have read, probably means that not only is the economic situation significantly better, but it also speaks of the public and other financial situation being regulated and stabilised, and let us hope that they will remain, or possibly, as everyone would like to, improve in the short term. In the Group of Members, we do not think it is most important to stress which individual, ministry or government has contributed most. For people, the most important thing is that economic health is strengthened. However, it is not possible, despite some or many good results, to recall that this penalty of interest on late interest is still necessary, because in the area of financial discipline, we do not have this written down in the coalition contract, how we are going to regulate, perhaps something has not changed much, or we do not know what we are monitoring the situation. This may have been so in our blood that we do not respect financial discipline that such laws will not help much or almost certainly will not. Therefore, there will be a lot of other things to do, and it is likely to change the culture of our business relations. Otherwise, the law is such that in the DeSUS Group we support it and we will contribute our votes for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the law is short, the position of our Group of Members will be relatively short. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate on late interest. The current arrangement, which is, is somewhat illogical. We have a law in force that provides for late interest, but only for claims that are in domestic currency, and late interest on claims that are in foreign currency is laid down by another law. Taking into account the fact that Slovenia will take over the euro from 1.1.2007 and the euro will become, in addition to the fact that the currency is in many European countries, including our domestic currency, this is another reason why these differences between currencies are also eliminated. I would also point out that this amendment is fully in line with Directive 2000/35 of the European Community and, of course, there are no reservations from this point of view. The decline in interest points to a favourable climate, to the results, to the favourable situation in Slovenia, and we can look forward to seeing that we are becoming more and more a European country, as we wanted, and as we have seen many others, old, developed for us at a time when we were on our way to Europe, for example. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you. The Magnificent Messenger. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! In the Liberal Democracy, we will support the proposal of the law because, in fact, it does nothing else than to note that we are successful in implementing the inflation reduction programme and taking over the euro, which is not explained and has not been explained on the committee and not today, but why the government has decided on this logic, why exactly 8% of the points or why the government, which is supposed to be concerned primarily with financial non-discipline, does not use what they have in neighbouring Austria, for example, where the interest rate for natural persons is 4% above the base, for legal persons 8% points. There have been many words in this congregation today about judicial backlogs. It is certainly true that we are becoming a European state, but we are certainly not a European country in the area of financial non-discipline and judicial failures, despite the two-year rule of Mr Janša and the ruling coalition. We therefore consider this proposal to be a lost opportunity in particular, where the different design of legal late interest rates, particularly for those large suppliers who do not pay their subcontractors, could introduce indeed criminal and sanctioning legal interest rates. For we have not heard the replies of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what this law will achieve. Whether this law will really reduce financial indiscipline, and we fear that it will not. It is also well stated in the report of the committee itself that the logical basis of the proposal was not presented, why eight, why not four for natural persons, for example 11 or 12 for legal persons. It has also remained unanswered why, in some other countries, such as France, Germany, in citing this directive, they "do not fully enforce" but use other mechanisms to strengthen financial discipline or reduce financial discipline. The government of Mr Janez Janša has made a lot of promises when we look at today's treatment of certain laws, the law on administrative dispute, the law on late interest rates, there will be no effects, something like that, something populist just because the driver's legal security will be reduced, but that's another story, of course. We therefore regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister of Finance have not taken advantage of the possibilities and would in fact introduce an instrument that would distinguish between those who actually create financial non-discipline, namely, large suppliers who do not pay their subcontractors only those penalties. This is simply because apparently small suppliers, subcontractors through legal channels simply will not be able to enforce their rights, given that the other law, the law on disputes today, has not significantly improved legal protection. So, we support the law, but we regret that no better solutions have been brought by the government into this law, and even on the committee itself, we have not heard the reasons why this design of solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you. Comrade Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, dear colleagues and colleagues. In principle, we support the Social Democrats Group' proposal for a law following the introduction of the euro and the directives of the European Union. In our view, it is also reasonable to extend the law to all monetary obligations, regardless of the currency, with the applicant following both principles and practical reasons, as a smaller proportion of financial operations will inevitably take place in other currencies outside the euro. The method of determining the late interest laid down in the Directive of the European Union is the levy on the European Central Bank’s reference rate. The minimum wage laid down in this Directive is 7%. The question of the appropriateness of the policy, which determines this level of this profit, therefore remains for us to discuss and make a final decision. The design of this policy is therefore the discretionary right of each Member State. The Slovenian Government, by law on the prescribed rate of late interest, proposes a premium of 8%, i.e. one percentage point above the minimum rate set by the European Union. A comparison of solutions in other Member States of the European Union shows that, in particular, some old members of the European Union are using a minimum wage, as has already been said today, 7%, but some new members such as Austria, for example 10.25, Slovakia 13, as well as a higher wage. As the problem of payment non-discipline is still present in Slovenia, as has been mentioned today, which in the opinion of the Social Democrats actually inhibits economic development and growth, it would be prudent to impose higher or find some other appropriate sanctions in this direction in order to improve this matter. Nevertheless, we believe that the proposed solution, i.e. the 8% increase in the European Central Bank's reference rate, is also acceptable, so we will support this law in the Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Ciril Testen will also present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the government. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest. The amendment of the law extends the scope to all monetary obligations, regardless of the currency, which is also logical, given that we will take over the euro from 1.1.2007 as our currency. The proposal to amend the law takes into account the European Union guidelines set out in Directive 2000/35, which regulates delays in payments for commercial transactions relating to the supply of goods and services rendered. Pursuant to the Directive, the interest rate of late interest is the leading interest rate, that is, the interest rate applied by the European Central Bank for the operations of the main refinancing operation on the last day of the month, which is the previous month of the last 6 months, increased by a minimum of 7 percentage points. In our case, the bill's proponents decided to increase by 8 percentage points, which in today's situation would mean 10.5% interest on late interest. It is for the Member State to decide, in accordance with its own assessment and according to the financial discipline in each country, how much the premium will be over the minimum specified 7 % points. The prescribed interest rate of late interest shall be determined twice a year and shall apply for a minimum period of 6 months. Late interest is also no longer dependent on domestic inflation, but solely on a leading interest rate, increased by percentage points determined by each member of the European Union by law and in accordance with the Directive. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposaler has made the right decision in view of our internal situation and we fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you. Ambassador Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal follows the direction of the European Union and is needed as the euro will become our domestic money after 1.1 next year. The proposal for a novelty thus extends the scope of the law to all monetary liabilities, regardless of the currency, and defines the prescribed interest rates of late interest, depending on the interest rate of the European Central Bank. This takes account of the 2000 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating late payments in commercial transactions. The proposal also takes into account the principle of the directive that in the event of a delay in meeting the monetary obligation for the unjustified use of foreign money and that the role of late interest is also to ensure payment discipline. The proposed novelty also takes into account the expected relatively stable inflation on the basis of the projected economic trends. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you, too. And we are done with the presentations on the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 28 September, within the framework of the point of vote. This also interrupts this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their participation. And we're moving on to 6. It's a second-hand proposal for a wine bill. It informs you that the debate is expected to take 50 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. If they present themselves, please the government representatives present, given that I do not know who they are, and see if they have the authority to participate in the meeting of the national assembly in the house. The government representative said that the mandate had been given, and we do not yet have this notice. Allow me to continue to conduct the session. However, I think the procedural proposal is coming from a colleague of the Squeaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u107	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In three and a half hours of the national assembly, after the government has apparently come from vacation, we are witnessing for the second time today a situation contrary to the rules of procedure. Contrary to the Rules of Procedure, we do not have any proposers empowered under Article 235 to represent the government: ministers, state secretaries or heads of so-called bodies in the composition. I propose that the President apply the Rules of Procedure of Article 73(1), interrupt the agenda item and, of course, ask the Government to ensure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that proposers are authorised in the National Assembly. I understand that, I don't know, you don't even have the authority for these gentlemen and lady. But regardless of the fact that the mandate says, as I am aware, there is no one or a minister - unless something new has happened - and the Lord is not the Secretary of State who has recently been appointed, nor is the Director or Director of the Authority in the composition. We have rules, and these rules stipulate that the government is represented here by authorised applicants. This has already been decided by the Rules of Procedure Commission, and even the opposite proposal has been made. The Commission has not adopted the rules of procedure of such a counter-proposal, but the government has obviously, I don't know, been burdened by an electoral campaign, decided that it has simply not sent, for the second time in three and a half hours, to the National Assembly of Business-defined Officials. Of course, I do not think there are any business conditions for us to continue our work. We repeat this proposal because, in one of the previous points of the procedural proposal, we may have been somewhat late after the presentation on behalf of the government has already been presented, and the fact is, of course, that the substantive matter is exactly the same. I therefore propose the first paragraph of Article 73.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u108	Comrade Squeakle, thank you for your procedural proposal. You are right to note that the government representatives present are not on the list reported to this point. Following your procedural proposal, you refer to Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which states: 'The President may suspend the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when the work will proceed'. In doing so, I would remind you that, of course, I will not accept your procedural proposal in this form, because the terms of the meeting are, as set out in Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the first paragraph: "At the beginning of the consideration of each item of the agenda, the applicant or his representative may submit an additional explanation" - he may give, but that is not necessary, and on a proposal, to the extent possible, I will only take into account the proposal set out in the second indent of Article 66. As long as there is no such procedural proposal, we will continue. My friend Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u109	I think that, Presidents, you are aware of the embarrassment just as much as we do and that this suggestion is that we refer to Article 66. Therefore, the Government has announced the time and announced that it will present its position, which means that this will has been expressed and conditions are not guaranteed in this respect. This means that we could also use Article 73, where you would have found that this condition is not met in Article 66. I therefore propose that paragraph 66 be applied and that this point be terminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u110	My friend Anderlich, thank you. We fully agree. If I understand correctly, you are using the second indent of Article 66, which reads: 'The applicant or his representative must provide a supplementary explanation if the national assembly so decides.' You demand that this be voted on by the National Assembly. Allow me to inform you, however, only of the fact that the terms of the hearing are, the material is, the working body has submitted its position to the proposed law and the applicant is not obliged to ensure his presence, even though he has announced it. Since I don't see a procedural proposal from colleague Anderlich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u111	I propose that the State assembly vote on the procedural proposal, i.e. that the representatives of the Government present an additional supplementary explanation, as referred to in Article 66, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u112	I therefore put to the vote your proposal, i.e. the proposal for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give its explanation and to provide competent or authorised representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Until it does so, as long as the proposal for a decision is adopted, we will break this point and move on to another point. As we say, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. As you can see on the screen, we're not concluding. There are 25 Members present. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we will repeat the vote in the second, and even if we do not conclude in the second, we will allocate 10 minutes of recess and vote for the third time. However, I propose that the Members who are in the lobby join us and thus provide the necessary number for the current vote. We are moving on to a second vote. We're voting, by the way. There are 30 Members and Members present. I'm adjourning the National Assembly for 10 minutes. This means that we will continue at 12.46 a.m. with a point and a third vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u113	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats. Before we move on to the third vote on the procedural proposal, I give the floor to my colleague, Tonet Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u114	The embarrassment is greater than it seems at first sight, because even if your explanation regarding the waiver of the right to further explain the government, given that it has announced it, you should have it in writing. And since you don't have an authority here who can say that he's quitting, that's not gonna hold. But I'm withdrawing the proposal. Of course, because I know that Mr. Senegačnik is in.d. the director of the body which is not in the composition may not represent the government's position at the meeting of the national assembly. And I suggest that, as a result of this withdrawal of the proposal, you proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you for withdrawing your proposal. We will proceed with that point. Before we go to the presentation of the report of the home working body, allow me to express criticism on behalf of the National Assembly on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not allow the normal part of the national assembly, especially since the government has itself declared its time for discussion. As it is said, the proposal for a law was treated by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Aloise Sok, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. As has already been said, the proposal for a wine law has been addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The bill is not new. We have already discussed this bill in this National Assembly and then voted in favour of the veto of the State Council as well as the procrastination veto in the National Assembly. The proposal for a law does not differ significantly from the proposal that was considered in 2005. The new text of the law is more or less identical. What is otherwise stated in this law, as it was then, is that after a survey carried out in the wine-growing area of Posavje, it is stipulated in this law that Slovenia will have not two than we had in the law at the time, but three wine-growing countries and nine wine-growing areas, which means one more than the previous bill. The main reason for this was therefore the veto of the State Council, and that is why we are now meeting again with this law. Essentially, what the law foresees is the parallel introduction of the so-called Romance type of protection and protection of the origin of wine. Slovenia currently has the so-called German protection system following the example of German and Austrian legislation; it was also the only one in the past. The Romance type of protection requires more co-operation and better organisation of producers and their cooperation. Producers are more involved in the process itself and this law ensures easier communication with consumers. The aim of the law is to remove administrative barriers and to this end, taking into account the professional criteria in the bill, as I have already said, wine-growing environments, as the boundaries of wine-growing environments bring a range of restrictions arising from European legislation: from restrictions on the transport of grapes, then musts, to prevent the combination of grapes, musts, wine and so on. The law also introduces two new traditional terms, "eminent wine" and "renominated wine", which is why it is more understandable to non-English-speaking consumers. In the draft law before us, there is also no mandatory entry into the register of oenological resources, which was one particular feature known only by Austrian law, otherwise the other Member States of the European Union do not know and, as such, would represent a financial burden for our vineyards. With regard to this law, let me mention that we have considered three comments from the State Council on the Committee. None of the three comments were accepted for the following reasons. First of all, as far as wine is concerned. So sweetness in wine is, of course, possible in two different ways. One way is to stop boiling in the process itself and the other is to add concentrated must to the wine after boiling. As European legislation allows this at this time, we have somehow been on the committee in the majority opinion that this should also be allowed to Slovenian wine producers in order to align them with other wine producers in the European Union. However, if this will change at European Union level, it will also be necessary to amend our Slovenian wine law. The second point of the State Council was concerning the drying of grapes in straw. They objected. Let me say that Article 2 of the bill provides for this, namely that such wine should then be specifically marked as'slam wine' and belongs to the category of 'peaceful wines'. Furthermore, the third point was regarding the bottle of quality wines outside the wine-growing area. The Council of State considered this unacceptable and, following a ruling from the European Court of Justice, it was found that such legislation of our vineyards would bring economic competition into an unequal position with other vineyards in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! As early as last October, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a wine law, on which the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia subsequently vetoed, which was also confirmed. The main reason for objecting to the proposal was the introduction of only two wine-growing countries, Primorska and Eastern Slovenia, instead of three, which would constitute a risk of re-evaluation of barely protected wines of cricket. In the DeSuS Group, we immediately responded to such a solution and took the view that such a solution was by no means sufficiently thought out, since the decline in the number of wine-growing countries would be at the expense of the established wine-growing countries known within our national space and also at the expense of the cultural heritage which we believe must be taken into account. Today's proposal for a wine law is not substantively different from the previous proposal, for the exceptional introduction of three wine-growing countries. In view of the fact that the new proposal also takes account of the changes in the professional public and, above all, the introduction of three wine-growing countries, Primorska, Podravja and Posavje, we support such a proposal in the DeSUS Group of Members. For we believe that the proposed solution, which sets out three wine-growing countries, does not come at the expense of the established wine-growing countries known within our national space, that is to say at the expense of the cultural heritage which we believe must be respected. Members of the DeSUS Group estimate that only by means of specificity can Slovenian wines succeed both at home and abroad and should therefore promote national diversity in Slovenia. We estimate that the Government has taken into account all international standards and obligations in this area when preparing the proposal. We must stress, however, that the promise and commitment have also been fulfilled, as it has appropriately prepared a new bill in line with the situation that has been established, which will also take into account the opinions of wine growers in the so-called wine-growing countries. In view of the proposal in the parliamentary group for a wine law, we also support and believe that it is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the national community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u120	Nicely greeted! The adoption of this law will enable further development of wine-growing and wine-growing. The law directs wine-growing and wine-growing to quality production and opens up new options for wine-market approaches. It is also important to introduce the possibility of using traditional terms that are more understandable to non-Slovenian-speaking consumers, which is an element that is expected to give new opportunities for wine marketing. The reduction in the number of environments aims at increasing the visibility of wine and thus improving marketing and, on the other hand, reducing administrative barriers for producers. Consumer protection is provided primarily by controlled production, which is regulated at key enrichment points, the use of oenological procedures and means, the labelling of musts, wine and other products, additional control over the highest wine categories, so that the possibility of abuse of consumer rights is minimised. The protection of the producer of grapes and wines is provided primarily through the establishment of rules on the production of grapes and wines. The bill preserves three wine-growing lands, which is also fine, and from 14 wine-growing areas in the current law it passes to 9. It is also important that this wine law be fully brought into line with European rules. We'll back him up. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Stana Pajk will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you. Respectable. The cultivation of vines and grape growing in wine is a tradition that has been present in our space since the Roman times. Wine legislation also has a tradition from ancient Austria and has continued through all state works to this day. The Republic of Slovenia received the wine law in 1997, namely the wine law, other grape and wine products, which was amended in 2001. This law has already been European-oriented, but it has not been able to take account of the negotiations between the Republic of Slovenia and the EU. Council Regulation No 1493 of 17.5.1999 was also replaced. In recent times, the situation has also changed significantly, mainly because of the single European market and also against third countries outside the EU. We have already had a wine law in the legislative process in this mandate, and there have been many discussions. One of them was also in winter in the State Council, where the procrastination veto on the law was passed. The explanation states that the State Council supports 3 wine-growing countries, so that from the eastern wine-growing land the environment of Dolenjska and the surrounding area of Bela krajina is excluded and form a third wine-growing country. It was then the main stumbling block that the law was not adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we listened to vineyards from Dolenjska and Bela Krajina and associations of wine growers from Dolenjska who want to have their wine-growing land and thereby to further protect the pride of Dolenjska wines. The current bill contains the promises made by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which are to include 3 wine-growing countries and 9 wine-growing areas in the law. We believe that the wine law is technically good and is needed to harmonise legislation with the European Union. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you. Ambassador Geza Juban will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Wine Act will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club. However, I am still a little embarrassed, or should I read the same text as you all read, which we have apparently largely copied from a chapter that says, "the assessment is no reason to change the law." We all refer to the veto of the State Council, where it's stuck in three wine-growing countries, and I don't think I have to explain for the fourth time why and how this happened and I'm going to let this part go. The proposed law brings something new, something good in the field of winemaking, winemaking and winemaking and solutions are mostly positive. We have doubts in some chapters, namely, the making up of wine, where, of course, it will be an important or appropriate solution in a sub-legislative act. In fact, it is a talk about adding must and wine, where we are interested in how this will be carried out in practice on the basis of the necessary documents. Perhaps the lack of the law to scrupulously address the hyperproduction that is already at the door or is still waiting for us. At the same time, of course, the possibility of some abuses that will then affect consumers or consumer protection may also be under-defined from the grey market to the wine market, where there is often unfair competition. "Summa summarum" and I said at the outset that we will support the marriage, because this is an opportunity for the vineyards, especially for those who live from this activity, and if they can take advantage of these opportunities or solutions in the marriage, they can benefit greatly from further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u126	Mr Vice-President, before I begin and explain what we think in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, I would say, however, that we should stop this point, given that we do not respect the rules of procedure. And because Mr Anderlič also withdrew his proposal or vote - yet. We have a positive opinion in the Social Democrats Group on the content of the proposal for a wine law. The proposal for a new wine law regulating grapes, musts and wine and other grape and wine products is particularly important after Slovenia enters the European Union. This is a major change in the processing and marketing of wine, which is affected by the single European market and the opening up of the European market to third countries. In view of the great global surplus of wine, the law must be a good basis for the enforcement of our wine-growing and wine-growing industries, which for a number of years has been directed towards sale exclusively on the domestic market. A new market approach is envisaged by moving to the Romance type of protection and protection of origin, according to which wine will be from a particular area with a certain recognised nature of wine. The reduction in the number of the environment also aims to increase the visibility of wines on the one hand and to reduce administrative barriers for producers on the other. We opposed the original proposal of the wine law, which was not adopted after the veto of the state council, mainly because it did not foresee three wine-growing countries. The far-reaching effects of the proposed two wine-growing countries would be felt by wine growers and winemakers in Dolenjska, especially by the producers of the plant. We therefore support the proposal of the law, which we are considering, because it provides for three wine-growing countries, namely Primorsko, Podravje and Posavje. We are confident that in this way the visibility of Slovenian wines will be established, as the interest of winemakers and wine growers from a particular area is extremely important. If we had one part of the vineyards that were dissatisfied, we would be dealing with ourselves in Slovenia. But the necessary knowledge and desire for your new market niche would be in a completely different way. This would, of course, have bad long-term consequences for an extremely long-term wine tradition in the Republic of Slovenia. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thanks for the introduction. Allow me, however, to make a misunderstanding about the first part, on my part, with the motion for a procedural decision, colleague Toneto Anderlic. Nevertheless, we will hear a fellow Member, Alojz Sok, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I would not like to repeat again what I have already said from this place, as my colleague Juban has found. The debate, when we first discussed this law, was, of course, much more lively than it is today. Nevertheless, I would like to add something on behalf of New Slovenia for a magnetogram. The fact is that Slovenia has produced more wine than it consumes, and the second fact is that we are facing extremely great competition in this globalisation today. In this direction, a revised market order for wine is also being prepared. And when we consider all of this, of course it would be better what the ministry and the government coalition have tried, which is to reduce the number of wine-growing countries. It would be best if Slovenia were one wine-growing country. This would represent the greatest recognition of Slovenian wines in this competition of the great global offer. However, this fact cannot be implemented because Slovenia is divided into two zones because of its geographical position: Zone B and Zone C. In Zone B, must is allowed to sweeten while in Zone C this is not allowed. For this reason, the Ministry, and all those who would say so, would get to know and see what lies ahead for us in the future, prepared a proposal to have two wine-growing countries in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we have encountered misunderstandings here, with the veto of the State Council and, above all, with one part of the producers in the Republic of Slovenia who strongly opposed it. The National Assembly listened to the veto of the State Council and rejected the law, so that there was nothing left to do with this segment of the number of wine-growing lands. So at this point, the only change in this direction is that the number of wine-growing environments has decreased. This will have a certain effect on the fact that vine growers will be able to connect more easily to make it easier for them to take part in the visa of competition, but that is not what they wanted. And I say this from this city because I am sure that those who have prevented it will at some point blame the government and all those who have prepared this legislation, that they are guilty of the difficult situation of Slovenian vineyarders - what is already happening today and what we can hear in the public. So when they were offered, they refused to accept it and would therefore have to take on their share of the responsibility. That's why I'm doing this again today. This National Assembly has also changed the tax legislation in the field of wine-growing at that time, so we have gone to tax after the cadastral income and have in fact unloaded tax obligations on wine-growing producers. Whether it's enough or not, it'll show time. These changes in the European Union are inexorable, they are flowing and, as we talked yesterday about changing the market order for sugar, we will talk in a relatively short time about changing the market order for wine. Once again, I say that we have not taken into account all the proposals of the State Council, not those that would have been, if they had been taken into account, otherwise legislated in our law, as we know from neighbouring Italy and Austria, which are in our immediate vicinity. I only strongly hope that there will not be any reason again for any veto in the state world and then again any opportunity to engage and oppose this law, which I can hear here today, that we support in all parliamentary groups, even in New Slovenia, we will support it, even though we did not support it at the time, apart from our fellow Member of the Uhan veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The Magnificent Messenger. Janez Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. So when we adopted the previous proposal, we have made our position very clear, and this is still today, otherwise we agree that we have three wine-growing countries, because it is the will of people, and of course it remains to be questioned whether this is better or worse in terms of perspective. I think that, from this point of view, what the European Union promises, this solution may be somewhat worse. However, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this bill along with the amendments adopted by the Committee. Of course, there will be sub-legal acts that will be recorded for the benefit of Slovenian winery. So the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. A presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is still under way. Ambassador Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! In the beginning, I must reiterate my resentment at the ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which no longer comes from the meeting, but from the point at the point. Which is now the second point that the government has not taken the necessary time to tell us certain things. As for the wine law, I must say that I was surprised by the position of individual parliamentary groups a few months ago when this law was the first time before us and we have considered it. At that time, all, especially from government parties, together with the government, were vehemently advocating how good it would be if there were fewer wine-growing countries, and how bad it would be if we kept three. I believe that today none of the government parties will object to the proposal. So you will still make up your mind, in the belief that you are ruling, that you will accept a worse solution. So you want Slovenia on the one hand even worse. You have the power to make her feel better. You have decided today, even after the execution of some representatives, to make it worse on your conviction. However, I am interested in the fact that there are no government representatives, whose policy you are implementing - the one given to you from behind, or the one you have in your head and are confident of. Today I heard how bad three wine-growing lands are. When we vote late tonight, I believe they will become good. This duality of government clients is a little confusing. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already stressed and amended the law in the articles on wine-growing countries in the first proposal of the Wine Act. At that time we represented our own intention after three wine-growing countries, and we are pleased that the government then also accepted and that today all of you, including those who then opposed and did not want to support, are supporting today. I must thank you for your support for the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, despite your conviction that it is worse. You see, in the Slovenian National Party we were confident at the time and we are also sure that it is better now. We follow our policies and do not change them from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to this amended proposal, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 28 September, within the framework of the point of vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Dot of the Day - Another defends the proposal for a law on minimum wage determination. I would like to inform you that two hours and 55 minutes have been scheduled for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The proposed law provides for a way of harmonising the minimum wage and minimum wage for 2006. The minimum wage shall be the minimum amount that the employer may pay to a full-time worker. The Institute of Minimum Wages, which replaced the once used guaranteed salary for payment of wages, was introduced in 1995. Since then, the establishment of a minimum wage has been the subject of an agreement between the social partners and the government in the context of a three-party policy agreement on wages. This year, progress has been made in this area and the social partners, employers and private sector unions in wage policy or wage coordination have reached a bipartite agreement. Public sector unions and governments have also agreed to increase wages at the bipartite level. The suggestion that the Minister responsible for the work, or the government, set a new amount of minimum wage, was also given to trade unions in the Economic and Social Council when considering the proposal for a law, and that the proposal should make sense in law to regulate the way of coordinating the minimum wage so that it would not be necessary to discuss it every two years and there would be no unnecessary delay as we see it this year. This is how we propose that the minimum wage should be increased once in the month of August, as has been the established practice for several years. However, it is being increased for the estimated increase in prices of living needs in a given year, which the government accepts as the basis for the preparation of the state budget. The amount of the minimum wage shall be determined by the Minister responsible for the work and published in the Official Journal. The law also sets the minimum wage for this year at the level of 125.052 SIT, which also takes into account a certain estimate of the expected increase in the price of living from the government's spring report, which is 2% which serves as the basis for determining the state budget. The agreed percentages of wage increases in the private and public sectors agreed by representatives of trade unions and governments are also taken into account. The law also provides for a guaranteed salary on 1 August this year, which is also 2% higher than in force and amounts to SIT 56.970. To date, guaranteed wages are used only as a basis for the assessment of employment rights, which are also already in the process of changing and moving on to the use of minimum wage as a basis. The guaranteed salary resulting from the 1990 law is again determined only so that the remuneration for which the guaranteed salary is still the basis under the applicable law, the grants, unemployment benefits can be calculated adequately even if the sectoral laws have not yet been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I'm sorry, my mistake. The draft law, of course, considered the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and the disabled to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I warmly welcome you, colleagues and fellow Members and representatives of the government. The labour force, the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, was discussed at the 7th emergency meeting on 12.9.2006. The members and members of the Committee received, as input for the Committee's meeting, a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the State Council's Committee on Social Activities and a proposal from the Economic and Social Council to supplement the proposal of the law, as well as two amendments from the four coalition groups. In the introduction, Mrs State Secretary introduced us to the law, as we have also heard on the Committee, so I will not repeat it. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly examined that proposal and added specific comments to Articles 1, 2, and 4 in the light of the legislative and technical basis. The Commission of the State Council for Social Activity, in its opinion, proposes to harmonise the draft law with the social partners prior to the hearing in the National Assembly and to increase the minimum wage by 2%, as the increase in the cost of living requirements according to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the period August 2005 - August 2006 was 2.6%. Two amendments were tabled by potential proposers to the bill, namely Articles 1 and 2. In a long and controversial debate, the members and members of the committee, with a number of questions and proposals, warned the bill's proponents about the important adoption of the bill and raised questions regarding the harmonisation of the bill with the social partners. Next. The number of people receiving the minimum wage, the possibility of an increase in the minimum wage to 2.6% and why the minimum wage for 2007 is not fixed in euros. The representative of the proposer said on the above-mentioned issues that in principle the consent of the social partners had been reached, but that it was still necessary to provide workers with a minimum wage of approximately 18,000 people. Any increase in the minimum wage by 2.6% could pose problems for employers' competitiveness. With regard to determining the level of the minimum wage in euro for 2007, the representative of the applicant said that this area would be regulated by a specific law to be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly in due time. Members and members of the Committee rejected the proposals for the establishment of amendments to the Committee proposed by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Mr Milan M. Cvikl and Mr Ljubo Germič, by a majority of votes. The Committee adopted the amendment of the four coalition parties' groups to Articles 1 and 2 and, as has been said, did not formulate its amendments. Everything that has been adopted is incorporated into the amended proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you. We are now moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u138	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Democratic Party of Pensioners' parliamentary group will support the minimum wage law. Of course, it is aware that the growth of the minimum wage will be lower than the increase in the cost of living in the current year by 0.6%, but because it is very urgent, it is a better solution 2% than 0 and further negotiations. We must also express our expectation that in the second year, the government will make a change in the sense that the cost of living growth will be taken into account in a consistent manner, as the estimated cost of living increases are often lower than the actual one and in this sense affect the small or most vulnerable group of employees. In doing so, I must say that we do not agree with those who claim that taking into account the overall growth of the cost of living would jeopardise the competitiveness of the economy. We're thinking about all those who have employees on minimum wage. I calculated that the monthly cost of all those companies paying minimum wages in our country would be just a few hundred thousand and nothing more. I'm talking about that piece of unaccounted for 0.6% versus 2. So this moment was kind of an attractive excuse for hair, which ultimately does not mean such important things for us that we would not support the law, that at least 2% of these workers and those full-time employees get a full-time job; that we are counting on it to be possible in the future, if economic growth is favourable, even in the sense that something else would increase the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the national communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The establishment of a minimum wage shall pursue the objective of safeguarding the social and material security of employees in accordance with the principles of international organisation of work set out in the Convention on Minimum Wages and the principles of the European Social Charter set out in other international instruments defining the right to fair pay for work to enable a worker to live in dignity. By establishing the method of valorisation, a more lasting solution is provided, allowing for the establishment of a minimum wage in a timely manner, irrespective of possible delays in the coordination of the social partners with regard to wage increases. The law provides that the minimum wage is the minimum wage for full-time work, that it is fixed in the monthly amount and that payment may only be reduced in the event of employment for a shorter period of time than full-time work. However, the principle of equality for all employees with regard to the right to minimum wage shall also be taken into account, irrespective of the activity or nature of the employer in which they work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The minimum wage is established for us as an institution for the protection of the material and social level of employees. It shall represent the amount to be received by the staff member for the full employment obligation. Although the amount may be lower than the minimum, only in the case of less than full employment. Due to the long coordination of the social partners on wages, the proposal to increase the amount of minimum wage has become too far from the normal annual coordination cycle and we are talking today about a proposal for a minimum wage law. The proposal introduces a system of annual harmonisation of the minimum wage with the expected price increase adopted as a basis by the Government for the preparation of the budget. For the period from 1.8.2006 to 31.7.2007, a 2% increase in minimum wage is proposed, with a minimum wage of 125.052 tolars from 1 August 2006. The proposal for a minimum wage law provides for the same way of increasing the guaranteed salary, that is, the amount set by the Social Protection Act as the lowest income and used as the lower limit for determining certain benefits, that is, unemployment compensation, or as the entry price for obtaining certain rights, for example for scholarships. Since the laws governing unemployment and scholarships are in the process of changing, the proposal for a minimum wage law proposes a solution only of a temporary nature. Article 4 of the proposed Minimum Wages Act provides for a 2% increase in the guaranteed wage, and henceforth the amount of 56.970 tolars should apply. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a minimum wage law is in line with the practice that other members of the European Union also know, while at the same time welcoming the efforts of the Ministry to reduce the number of different bases and we support the intention that the guaranteed pay ceases to be used as a criterion for determining certain benefits and as a censorship for obtaining certain rights. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Ambassador Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! In the LDS, we would like to point out immediately at the outset that we are late in the minimum wage law, despite the fact that the Ministry of Labour was aware that the law was needed and that even the social partners agreed that the minimum wage should be fixed by a specific law. At the same time, this law is another proof that in Slovenia social dialogue is slowly dying out, as it is known in advanced democracies, and the dialogue of the rulings is slowly prevailing. How else can we explain such a delay in the adoption of this law? After the minimum wage, if the Ministry of Labour were interested, the social partners could agree separately from the agreement on a social agreement at a dead end. The fact that we need to determine the amount of minimum wage by 1.8. this year we knew long before parliamentary holidays. The government knew that this task awaited them from the adoption of a concerted agreement on private sector wage policy in the period 2004/2005, which was subsequently legislated by the law on the implementation of the agreement. Given the way in which the coordination between the social partners is managed, it should be clear to Minister Drobnic that the decision to set minimum wages will not be adopted by August 2006 and that the Minister should therefore propose to the social partners that they agree on the amount of minimum wages separately. Since he did not do so, we have the marriage text on the table only today, that is 26 September. That the Minister does not have a desire for social agreement, it is clear when we read the text of the law, since the second paragraph of Article 2 clearly states: "The amount of the minimum wage based on that assessment was determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work". We do not understand why the Minister by law has abolished social bargaining for the future, since we have had a minimum wage institution in place since 1995 and it has always been coordinated in a three-party agreement and coordination between the social partners. The fact is that coordination between the social partners with regard to minimum wage levels is common practice in most members of the European Union and other countries, as shown in the accompanying international comparisons. Therefore, our amendment to the second paragraph of Article 2 seeks to enable for the future civilised social dialogue between the government, unions and employers. In particular, we would like to stress the macho attitude of the government towards workers, which the government has already shown in the adoption of other laws. Thus, the law provides that the minimum wage will increase annually to the expected increase in prices of living needs in the year adopted by the Government as the basis for the preparation of the State budget. 2% growth is foreseen, although we were able to hear from the Prime Minister yesterday that 5% of nominal and more than 2% real wage growth is foreseen in 2006. At the same time, from the comparative review of the data provided by the Ministry, it is clear that in Slovenia there was a minimum wage of €490 in 2005, and in the countries we want to achieve or exceed, the minimum wage is much higher. The comparison with Spain shows that this minimum wage is EUR 599. The difference of €109 or €27 000 means that instead of $125,000 in gross wages, it would be about 150,000. If I took the law's decree strictly as it is written, at the end of the next financial perspective, the minimum wage in Slovenia would be EUR 581 and 47 cents, which does not even reach the present value in Spain. Furthermore, in the LDS Club, we draw attention to the duality of the government's conduct, as one writes and promises and the conduct is different. Thus, one of the brochures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia entitled "Slovenia tomorrow - the State of Prosperity" states that in 2013 it is intended to achieve a 100% level of prosperity in the European Union and not a 90% level of prosperity in Spain, which is why it is a problem for us that the government cancels social dialogue and raises minimum wage according to its forecast of inflation, which is more desirable than reality. At the same time, this government, by its tax legislation, will increase the net salary by some groups of people, including those with the lowest wages, and the minimum wage will be even more minimal, especially as the bill is forecast to rise to the added value that will even affect those with lower incomes. There was no support for our amendment on the home work body, which would increase the amount of funds for the 18 thousand recipients of the minimum wage by about 200 million per year, while government tax changes give about tens of thousands with the highest wages of about 10 billion. So we can say that government actions take on the poor and give to the rich. In the LDS, however, we will support this law, despite the fact that it is only 2% increase in minimum wage, and despite the end of social dialogue, because of those who also have a 2% increase in life support. Of course, we will also support all amendments that allow social dialogue to determine the level of minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. Ambassador Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State! The consideration of the proposed law at today's session shows all the weaknesses that the Social Democrats are constantly reminded of when it comes to laws that concern the most vulnerable groups of the population. In this case, they are recipients of minimum wages and guaranteed salaries as grounds for the exercise of rights under other laws. The bill's proponent, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, also refers to the European Social Charter and the principles of the international organisation of work, with which the Social Democrats fully agree, but we demand that this remain not only at the declaration level, but that it also works in the spirit of drafting these documents. We cannot only agree to quoting the terms, but we must ask ourselves whether the proposal takes them into account. Last but not least, in all the laws the content of which relates to issues dealt with by collective agreements or other forms of communication between the social partners, it is necessary to state in explanation of the law whether an agreement with the social partners has been reached on these issues, as well as the 98th anniversary of the adoption of an additional decision by the National Assembly. Looks like the coalition wants to replace coordination with coordination. The purpose of the law is to protect workers from abuse and to prevent an unacceptable reduction in the minimum wage for full-time work. It is right that everyone must have the opportunity to live with the work he has freely accepted and that workers have the right to a fair payment that is sufficient for them and their families to live a decent life, as set out in the European Social Charter. It is also true that in determining the amount of minimum wage regardless of the different practice in European countries, we do not follow those who leave the determination of the amount of State authority's competence because this is rare; but we follow positive practice, which often introduces the participation of state authorities and social partners in special permanent bodies or the formation of "at hoc" bodies of social partners in determining the amount. Notwithstanding the different practice of determining the amount of minimum wage, however, it points out that the joint recommendations of the international organisation of work and the European Commission adopted in 1995, I state, "the statutory minimum wage should be determined in full agreement with the social partners. It is intended to be calculated on the basis of a basket of basic products and services and is regularly coordinated with inflation", and it also states, "the government must ensure official calculation and publication of the minimum of living; the method of calculation must be consulted with the social partners". Since the references in the introduction to marriage are so much more incomprehensible that the government has sent an uncoordinated law to the National Assembly with the social partners. If the minimum wage of a type of social convention is a social convention, that is also what the applicant wrote in the introduction to the draft law, it is indeed necessary for it to have a social agreement. Time pressure cannot be an excuse for unwillingness to engage in social dialogue. Again, it has been shown that the proposaler tries to be aware of the question of coordination and to remain silent that the law is not harmonised. The disagreement between coordination and coordination on the Committee became apparent when a government representative contested the indication in the letter from the Economic Social Council that the proposal to supplement the bill was adopted unanimously. Even the employer representative reiterated his agreement to the proposal that the minimum wage should be determined annually by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work on the basis of the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council. In this way, the arguments of the Ministry's representatives have lost weight and credibility. We have prepared an amendment for the meeting of the National Assembly, which takes into account the recommendation of the Economic and Social Council, while at the same time drawing attention to the opinion of the Council of State calling on the National Assembly to supplement the law. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to support the amendment of the Social Democrats. The non-adoption of the amendment means the non-conformity of the law with the social partners, and the uncoordinated law is not ready to support the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you. The presentation of the New Slovenia Group will be carried out by mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Madam Secretary of State! By definition, the minimum wage is the minimum monthly payment for full-time work performed in Slovenia. Payments less than the minimum wage may be lower than that amount only if the employment is shorter than full-time. The minimum wage was last coordinated with the social partners in 2004. At that time, the amount was fixed for 2005 and it was also ensured that the amount was paid at the last level until the law stipulated otherwise. It currently amounts to a minimum wage of 122,600 tolars. In the meantime, the social partners of the private sector agreed to increase their salaries in the next two years without direct government cooperation. Regrettably, however, negotiations on a paid agreement and a paid policy, including guidelines on minimum wage, have stalled and the ministry has therefore drawn up a proposal for a law setting the minimum wage that is now ahead of us. The social partners agreed with the above-mentioned legal solutions of the Ministry. They also agreed that the minimum wage instrument should be governed by a special law, and that is what the latter seems to us in the New Slovenia Group a great deal of progress in the system of bargaining between the social partners. It is good that we are all aware that together we are responsible for the progress and development of our country - both employers who must be aware that only a satisfied worker is a good worker, as trade unions, as representatives of workers who must understand in their negotiations that money for wages is not unlimited. According to the bill, the minimum wage will be harmonised once a year in August for the expected price increase, and a simultaneous increase in the guaranteed wage on which certain social transfers are based is envisaged and the adoption of the law is therefore necessary. The main debate on the working body went towards the involvement of the social partners in the process of valorising the amount of the minimum wage over the coming years. As a well-established practice in the field of legislation, in the labour, social sphere, laws go through a lot of coordination both with employers and with trade unions. In this area, it is important to mention the 1972 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which provides that full consultation with representative employers' and workers' organisations is required in determining the minimum wage. Government representatives have consistently argued that this Convention is automatically taken into account when determining the amount of minimum wage, although this is not explicitly stated in the law. If we compare the amounts of the minimum wage between the new acceding countries of the European Union, Slovenia is second-placed and has almost twice the amount of the other acceding countries. There are about 20,000 employees tied to the minimum wage in Slovenia, while the guaranteed salaries are tied to scholarships, which will now, when the school year and the study year begin, are especially up to date, so the law is necessary and in Novi Slovenija we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. A presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group is yet to be made. Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much again for your word. The current agreement on wage policy between the social partners, which was legislated by the law on the implementation of wage policy agreements in the private sector for the period 2004-2005 and also contained a certain amount of minimum wage in the last amount of 122,600 SIT, has ceased to apply since August of this year. In fact, there was a legal void in this area this August, which, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, is not good, so we welcome the proposal for a minimum wage law establishing a legal basis for harmonising the minimum wage with the projected increase in the price of living needs, since, in accordance with the European Social Charter, it will be possible to provide at least minimum social and material security to many employees in income-based weak companies. In addition, a number of social transfers are linked to minimum wage levels and a minimum increase in minimum wage is very welcome or important for many recipients. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support both the purpose and the content of the bill, but we strongly believe that it would be right, in the spirit of the principle of partnership and dialogue, which has an important place in the European Union, in Article 2, to have the right and opportunity of the Economic and Social Council to forward its opinion on the level of harmonisation or rise in any decision to harmonise the minimum wage of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As we say, we will support the proposal of the law, but surely we will be supported by something as well by the amendment, which in this sense, as I said, governs Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25.9.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the SD Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up in a new way. So far, we've got eight applicants. First of all, Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, I don't fully understand this game of fast fingers. I've waited until the end before, and I was third, and now I've waited until the middle, and I'm first, so the computers are going to have to explain exactly what the classification algorithm is in the order. However, despite changing the National Assembly into a popular show, allow me to present the amendment we have prepared. This amendment is, in view of the debate on the working body, according to my view, an amendment which, as a minimum, ensures that we will maintain social dialogue in Slovenia with one key postulate of the social state, a minimum wage. It is clear that during the reign of Mr Janša and Mr Petnik, social dialogue is dying. Today, at almost two points of the agenda, we have found that we do not need governments anymore. However, it is the social dialogue between the government, unions and employers that ensures that, in the case of minimum wage, the benefits of management will go to all, including those who work in or have such a status to ensure minimum wages. And of course we wouldn't think we're talking about very large amounts. We have already presented some of the calculations on the Committee, which would have shown that if one amendment had been adopted on a committee that would have taken into account this opinion of the Economic and Social Council, or some of the thinking which criterion would have been used, then instead of 432 million dollars, said less than two million euros, the costs of Slovenian companies for 18,000 workers would have been slightly higher than 200 million; that is to say less than 3 million euros would have been to raise the minimum wage in the year ahead. Of course, this was not accepted. And now we are proposing an amendment that will allow the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, not only for what is already called a flexible labour market, to consult the Economic Social Council, however, when considering how to create a minimum wage. And on the committee we have presented and allow me to present these calculations to you today. If the Minister took into account what is likely to be taken into account, price increases and productivity increases, because, of course, people working with minimum wages also have an impact on labour productivity, then a minimum wage of around €490 would be paid in 2005 by 2013 - why am I speaking in 2013? Since in a document signed by all parties, prepared by that team, at least part of a team that is not part of a development partnership, this document is called the development strategy of Slovenia and foresees that Slovenia should develop to the level of average of the European Union by 2013 -, in the event of an increase in wages due to the prices and productivity of the salary from 490 up to EUR 745 in the good eight years. However, if you do not accept the amendment, the salary will rise from EUR 490 to EUR 581. Exactly EUR 581.4, taking into account the projected inflation in the document, as quoted in paragraph 1 of this Act. The so-called budgetary baselines, which foresee for all the next eight years very precisely how inflation will rise: 2.1; 2.1; 2.2; 2.2; 2.2; and just over two in the last year. The EUR 581 is, or will still be, below the level of today's minimum wage in Spain and firmly below the level of today's minimum wage in Greece, even though Greece and Spain are practically at the level of development of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia's strategy for the development of Slovenia is designed to overcome them by some 10.15%; and, of course, it would be logical that the minimum wage would also increase during this period by taking into account prices, by taking into account productivity, and therefore by the benefit of development, which I have no doubt that this coalition will not be able to achieve, at least so say, but some people with minimum wages would also have. Of course, all of this would not be so important if we did not have a large tax package at the same time, which gives the group, which is twice as small as these 18,000 workers, 35 billion tolars. And how can we explain the rejection of amendments that would only achieve that people with minimum wages would also get some of the so-called welfare of development. I therefore propose that you support the amendment, as we have drafted it, and that we revive the social dialogue in Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular those who have sat on a parent's working body, however, I propose that if we get documents from the Economic and Social Council on the home working body, then we can only believe this document. And I hope that today you will correct this mistake and suggest that you support the amendment in the vote and that we maintain at least some social dialogue. However, as I said, it is not a big difference in numbers, but it is about developing or creating prosperity for everyone, but not just for some. Because those who will or who have only a minimum wage, and all others, so much and so, will obviously have to pay the 35 billion that the group of tens of thousands, over now, an already apparently higher VAT according to newspaper forecasts and given that no one has denied it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. Pay, whatever or whatever it is, is that fundamental right, the fundamental fundamental right arising from the work done. The minimum wage, in particular, must be at least such as to allow for a minimum of a kind of dignified survival to be granted to the one who is unfortunately receiving it. On the other hand, it must be such that, at the final stage, it does not jeopardise those jobs that are still present in companies struggling to survive on the market. And thirdly, it must also be such that all the social transfers that are linked to them hold up some capacity of the state. That is why dialogue is necessary and necessary, even if it is difficult, unfortunately it is. In society, we are people who have every view, every thought, every dignity, but in some common conversation and effort, we do find some common coexistence. And if we imagine in Slovenian society the fact that, with certain such and other reforms, we will have to approach approaches for certain corrective measures in society, then this dialogue is inevitable. Therefore, let us not reject it even if it is difficult, but it is necessary and necessary. Therefore, I personally believe that, as a mild form as proposed by the second amendment by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, and even a slightly mild form, I have already proposed on the committee, it is necessary to introduce into law. This preserves the credibility of the government as one of the social partners. And I don't know, I don't think it's possible for me to say that, on this basis, the government is so committed through this article, the second paragraph of this article, that it may not be able to accept minimum wages or indexations, or, as we call it, harmonisation. To me, the mild form that any serious government will take as a benefit is that we will be able to agree in society. I will not owe any debt, but I think it is wise and credible that, in the second paragraph of Article 2, we should just write down the mild form of this dialogue as it is set out in the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, if perhaps the first amendment is already more resilient. I will certainly get someone else in my group to follow me to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, respectable colleague, distinguished secretary of state! With all due respect for the Economic and Social Council, with all due respect for dialogue with the social partners, I do not see that these two amendments, which are practically equal, should be adopted and I will vote against myself. Why? In Section 2 of the Act we have a certain formula for how minimum wages should be calculated how to adapt. That is, the minimum wage is increased each year by the expected increase in prices of living needs in the year, which is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the basis for the preparation of the State budget. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly an extremely important document and practically from this document, or from the budget making assumptions, we take the elements by which we will then calculate the minimum wage over and over again. Of course, I still respect the Institute of Minimum Wages as the Institute of Protective Material and Social Employment, and I certainly welcome this matter. However, I would like to point out, not on the basis of some newspaper articles, but on the basis of knowledge of the company, that on the basis of a picture of the real world I would like to stress here or also describe the role of the employer who, of course, has to provide a minimum wage under this law. If you take a firm that is extremely seasonal, a company with little extra value, a company with about 4200, 4300 employees, a company where the majority of women's collectives may be above average. And then the information that every month between 1600 and 2000 workers need to provide a supplement to the minimum wage and that this amount - this cost is the cost of the employer - amounts, of course, depending on the month to month, to 174 hours per month - from 13 to 15 million. Then I worry about who will pay for this cost, especially if the company has between 80% and 90% of the production capacity sold under the international production cooperation regime or a business break or final business if you want. Here, it is not just a matter of waving and forgetting the employer's obligation to provide this supplement to the minimum wage. Of course, don't make it sound like I'm up against a minimum wage that actually guarantees some human dignity for employees, but please don't forget employers in this law. So, as I said in the introduction, I will not support both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Rudi Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again. We are talking now essentially about a bill for 17,000 employees and employees in the labour intensive sectors, where employers are certainly aware of the responsibilities of their company and of their costs, of course. We all know that, in particular in the labour intensive sectors, personal income is a large item, and I also understand in the final stage that they are concerned that, although unfortunately, they will provide social security and their monthly income with minimum wages. How difficult it is to negotiate, we see here, within Parliament, already two of us are having a hard time negotiating each other if we have a diametrically opposite opinion, but how difficult it is to negotiate in a tripartite way, but we can only imagine. And what is the result of the tripartite negotiation so far, until this new proposal has been, we can also see from the data that the Slovenian minimum wage is 44.1% of Slovenia's average salary. This has so far been in the intervention of negotiating three social partners that we have brought this minimum wage to 44.1% of Slovenia's salary. Let me say that the developed Western countries, of course we want to come to, have this percentage higher than Slovenia and move about 50 percent or more of the average wage. This is the result of a coordinated tripartite agreement that has been in force until now. Today we have a new proposal for a law that will avoid the situation that arose this year, that this minimum wage since August, when it should be higher, at least for this proposed 2% index, remains at the level ahead of last August. And that was what the Ministry wanted to break and enable such a system to ensure, in the event of a failed agreement, at least that minimum increase and, of course, that increase or adoption of this law. I think there is no one here today between us to vote against, we will see in the outcome of the vote. And minimum wages can be increased either by productivity or by increasing the cost of living, as is the proposal today; and above both the Ministry has a review and the opportunity to influence and increase this minimum wage in line with productivity and the growth of living costs. Now we have two amendments ahead of us. The amendment proposed by the LDS is not acceptable to me because, in fact, it wants to preserve the situation that has been in place so far, and which has led us to avoid an increase in the minimum wage for employees, even though this should be increased from August to August. While I think the proposal of the Social Democrats is much more European-oriented and significantly more acceptable, it proposes a consultation of the Minister with the social partners and then a decision, which will always be timely in any case. I think that this amendment is much more acceptable, so I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. It's my colleague Potrat's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. You have before you the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats when we heard the debate and arguments on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. It is a softened form of what the Economic and Social Council has adopted as a proposal to supplement Article 2 and which is a dictatorship that some have argued is too binding and replaces with what the members and members of the Committee have proposed. That is why I expect you to support this amendment, because it does not essentially change what is also a problematic provision of this law to me as a Member. This law refers to minimum wage growth being aligned with estimated inflation or an estimated increase in the cost of living, rather than with real growth. If we're very precise, the difference between one and the other, in this case between 2% and 2.6%, is negligible, it's 735 tolars. If you transfer this to 18,000 recipients of the minimum wage, as far as the employer in Slovenia thinks it would be, then you see what amount we are talking about and that this competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy cannot be compromised and that the responsible employer would agree to such an increase because the responsible employer also knows that the performance is linked to the satisfaction of the worker. We're talking about a minimum. But it's a principle, it's a minimum raise that we try to minimize things, and that later, when it's always increasing from the base, at the end of the day, it can prove to be some amount that means something to someone who has a minimum income. I am not saying that much, but I say that, at the principle level, it shows a willingness to equalize the one at the bottom with all others, that his expectations will then be equal, that his right to real income growth will also be recognised. And once again, what we have heard is that it is unreasonable to make a proposal for a proposal, because even the applicant or the employer's representative thought that such a solution was a good one and that coordination or consideration of the opinion of the Economic and Social Council was expected. Only the government, a government representative, insisted that it could not be or should not be accurately written if we wanted to. I would be happy and happy to support the proposal tabled by the Liberal Democracy, because I think that the core of the problem is also in what I have been talking about, not only about the estimated growth of living needs, but about the real growth of living needs. What is the position of the Group of Members, but I said at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Shirtz's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u162	Let me begin by saying that Minister Drobnič is not only incorrect, but also very unfriendly to his employees at the Ministry, because he leaves such a difficult topic always on the shoulders of the Secretary of State, who must defend difficult messages, in this case to 18,000 people who receive minimum wages. He wasn't on the board, and he's not here today, and I totally understand, and his absence is eloquent. And today I'm supposed to show my face to those who represent the bottom of the payoff, and that's 18,000 people, and I understand, once again, that it's hard for him to do it. On the other hand, it is also worth noting that this article and the rejection of this article re-emergence the expulsion of social partners from dialogue, as in other cases it has almost happened that partners who are supposed to influence and by means of which certain consensus is to take place in certain legislative procedures are both played in the field of students, economists, when talking about the Chamber of Commerce; it is destabilized and also broken down the other party which should cooperate in order to have better, more patient and better laws for the people. This is also the case with the rejection of the two amendments to Article 2 when such an economic and social council is being expelled in the first case or the social partners in the second case from the dialogue. Today we have heard how difficult it is to negotiate, because we see in the National Assembly how difficult it is to reach certain communication agreements here and in other cases. And I warn you, if we can't negotiate with our own tool, which is the word, here things are decided when we press the decision in the vote, and then the argument of power applies, that is the argument of the majority. And here, with these amendments, if we were to accept these two options, both of them are good, this argument of the power of someone who has muscles would be reduced because at least there would be a dialogue with someone who has other arguments. I would like to point out that this amendment is not an agreement, but is in the case of the LDS for the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, and in the case of SD for the previous consultation, just that and nothing else, it is a waste. Furthermore, today we have also heard that if the minimum wage in some way is determined by some way, I will say, simplified speaking automation. However, we know that this automation is not as simple because, as the Commission for Social Activities has already said and today you yourself, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia sees a different starting point, which would be the basis for determining the increase in minimum and guaranteed income. We meet with 2% and meet with 2.6% after the Bureau of Statistics or as Mrs. Potrata said - 735 SIT. Even if this would be 200 or even 400 million SIT, please, and then we will decide and have a minimum award in determining the meetings of various supervisory councils, which are in the majority ownership of a country that is ten times larger, dozens of multimillion dollars as they are here, because these calculations are not so crucial that you could shake up the deadline when you are talking about this minimum OD, which does not affect so much other transfers, only on scholarships, but on a smaller scale, and even with smaller sums, you can meet in further calculations. In short, you can listen to all this very, very understanding of your advocacy of those who are at the bottom who have problems in life due to the minimum incomes that have been expressed two years ago and face the views you have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you, you. I give my word to Ambassador Ljubo Germich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, when we talk about the amendment to Article 2, the content of the discussion can be very broad, since we are talking about whether, in such important decisions as setting a minimum wage, we need social dialogue, we need agreements between the partners involved, or whether we leave it to the arbitrary determination of someone who, of course, by his decision reaches into the way of life of a large number of people. Therefore, it seems very important to me here today to point out that, by the government, when it advocates the unwarrantedness of the proposals both on the committee and here today by two parliamentary groups, namely the Socialists and the Liberal Democracy, that such a provision is not necessary or could be said even - it is not desirable in the law itself. When we moved numbers, what that means, nominally of course by the government, we never heard any argument that our calculations were wrong, that our numbers were too small, that we could define that such a text in this article could of course be harmful. For when we talk about caring for the economy and when we talk about caring for the labour-intensive industries, we are talking about sectors where competition on the market is more difficult to achieve, and, of course, the cost of such a company at the expense of wages can be the one that will require forgiveness. Of course, it is necessary to ask whether this government is fully acting in such a way that such concern can be detected in all segments. Today, much has already been said in the diaspora, what we offer with one measure, which means raising the minimum wage by 2% compared to what we offer to others, let's say by reducing the upper rate of income, where a certain number of the highest paid in the Republic of Slovenia naturally improves significantly. On the other hand, in Finance it is now published very clearly on the schedule of dynamics of the burden economy with taxes and contributions. Is it not interesting that here in concern to reduce the burden of the economy to create a condition for competitiveness, we see that in 2005 there is an enormous leap in the burden of the economy. Surely, in this enormous leap, it would be interesting to hear the share of the minimum wage increase in these percentages. When we are also talking today about the content that we will deal with tomorrow, this means the Social Protection Act, which means that individuals will have to accept every job, this government does not offer the competitiveness of an economy with jobs that would require higher knowledge that would require a higher level of added value, but offers that anyone who ends up with, say, a higher level of education will have to accept two or maybe even more levels of lower employment. Of course, here we are talking about these opposite trends that we see between the words that the government is offering and among the factors here, even with today's financial article. In doing so, we ask ourselves whether it is not appropriate to have social dialogue involved here so that, when it comes to setting a minimum wage, the Minister may hear additional arguments, that is, something more, which might enable him to make a different decision. And today, when we talk about the second article or amendment that introduces social dialogue in Article 2, of course, we are also talking about whether the methodology under this law is already concrete, or whether we will be able to assess that it is only possible to say that productivity can be taken into account, in order to take into account the real rise in the prices of living costs or anything else that the dialogue between the social partners could, of course, give. When we talk about this, we do not forget about employers, we can ask ourselves if the government forgets about employers, because the level of burden on the economy is increasing enormously. And when we talk about how difficult conversations are when different interests need to be realized, we need to sit down and respect different opinions in these agreements. However, it is significantly easier to foresee by law a decision that can have positive and negative effects. This is why, of course, today’s article discusses how we can talk about worrying about the exciting developments under Bajuk. I wouldn't want to talk about worrying about the exciting movements under the Tiny Man. It therefore seems to me that, with minimum will, we can support the amendments that we have proposed here by the opposition in order to take into account or take into account the opinion of the Economic and Social Council before the final decision. And here again I would like to point out that the Economic and Social Council unanimously supported that proposal. And here I would point once again to the fact that it is possible to detect from material that from the international organisation works minimum wages, the way in which minimum wages are fixed, the use, the control is clear that the ways in which minimum wages vary in the world. So it is not about uniform concepts or prescribed concepts in which Slovenia would be obliged to respect certain guidelines. Thus, there are differences between the individual countries, both with regard to the documents with which they are established and with regard to the powers of the authorities and bodies. And of course, that's why I think it makes sense because there was no support for such amendments at the parent's working body meeting to try to listen to the arguments that we're presenting to you today and we're trying to find so much will and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members. First of all, I must tell Mrs Shirca that it is not nice for her to speak so badly about Mrs State Secretary. I think Mr Drobnic trusts his associates, knows who he has chosen, and Mr Drobnic would not choose an incompetent secretary of state. What you said was based exactly on the fact that Mrs State Secretary is not able to carry out her duties. She's just a government representative in this national council, and I don't know who else I'm supposed to bring in to be competent. It also represents the Minister in this National Assembly at this time. With regard to the establishment of the minimum wage, I have already mentioned in my statement on behalf of the parliamentary group that it is a very important convention of the international labour organisation of 1972, which stipulates that when determining the minimum wage, the social partners, or the representative of employers and employees, are harmonising each other in terms of the amount of this salary and that, as has been clearly pointed out on the committee itself, there is nothing else in this area. Two additions were made to Article 2, which is open. First of all, it complements the Social Democrats' Group, which complements the legal dictatorship and wants to further emphasise the importance of social dialogue in determining the level of minimum wage. In the New Slovenia Group, for the reasons I have already stated, we feel that such an addition is not necessary in this law, and I do not know what it would take to raise the minimum wage. What happens if the social partners fail to agree on the level of the minimum wage. It is also necessary to realize that minimum wages are mainly in sectors that barely live day to day, not on their own account, rather because they are engaged in such activities. And as long as wage growth is not guaranteed by law, if there is no automaticity in determining minimum wage, workers and workers who are on a minimum wage who receive minimum wages are also deprived of this projected increase, even though it is only 2% this year. It means something to them, too. However, the addition to Article 2 proposed by the LDS would, in the opinion of our Group of Members, result in a competent minister or minister having a certain amount of time and not being able to determine the amount of minimum wage if the Social Council did not agree or could not determine the amount of minimum wage! And in such a case, anything left for those workers and workers on minimum wage would be just smiling faces in front of the social partners' TV cameras. Such a change would also destroy the purpose of the law in order to introduce a more permanent systemic solution by law. And this systemic solution was also the desire of the social partners in the economic and social world to do so in such a way that it is regulated by law. In this way, in our view, it would be said in the way proposed by the LDS, to introduce a veto system and I am sure that the employees who receive the minimum wage would be short-circuited. And for the record, the minimum wage is not from today, it's a legacy of the past. And I will count for success more than the minimum wage being raised, so that as few employees as possible will receive the minimum wage. It is said that most employees will receive a higher salary than the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u168	That there will be no misunderstanding, let me say that I respect and respect Mrs Cotman's work and also respect her dialogue in relation to the rest of the national assembly. But what I'm stressing is something else. I regret that Mrs Cotman has to replace the Minister too many times and that these failures are symptomatic. My statement went only in the direction of the Minister's unfair and unkind attitude towards the Secretary of State, who may be imposing certain things on her to hide herself from certain answers that are difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you for explaining. In view of the new application system, I will once again call on the Members and Members present to report. I can see that we have four newly-declared Members. He'll be the first to get the word from his colleague, Milan Squeakl. Here you go. Procedural first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u170	I'd like to ask if we can behave, the services will explain the algorithm. Because now I've done exactly the opposite of what I did before, and I've shown up again on this list first. Is this about your last name? If it's his last name, of course something's wrong. So in this circle, I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u171	Good, if you've given up this debate in this round. In any case, we'll ask them to explain the algorithm to you. And we are continuing the debate. Member Stana Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. We're talking minimum wage. The minimum wage is a minimum of the minimum that is given to the one who works so that he can sustain himself and his family with dignity. I myself wish that these minimum wages in our society would be minimal, as is the word used in this minimum wage itself. I wish there were very few of them and that, with development, economic growth and development in Slovenia in general, these wages would be declining. Unfortunately, our society is still such that in the economy it also has such entities that do not have great added value because they are labour-intensive industries and where, as a result, it is also possible because of outdated technology and what else, unsuccessful leadership and what added value is small. And that's where we have to ask ourselves, if the minimum wage goes up, the jobs, the ones that are still working are at risk. And it can be called boomerang. This means that wages are raised, which are small, and more wages are at risk. That is why it is necessary to balance this and, of course, then, as we have heard many times today, negotiations are excruciating, long-term; however, negotiations are, in particular, the key to negotiating, always. We here, too, in Parliament for a long time, have a broad conversation and do not usually come quickly to a solution. The negotiations slowly lead to a solution and slowly. Usually, such solutions are good. As far as the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats themselves are concerned, I can say that I have no objection to the amendment proposed by the Social Democracy, but I think it is unnecessary. This is because Convention No 131 of the International Labour Organisation itself says that it is necessary to talk to the social partners, both employers and employees. And if Slovenia is a party to this convention, then this is normal. The second thing is that the law is two-stage. Provided no arrangements are made, it is only then that the Minister should determine this raise of the minimum wage. Why is it so important to determine it? That there is no delay, and that is why it is like a security guard, that there is no delay and that those who already have a minimum wage get it as soon as possible, so this is foreseen as a two-stage one. I think the law is well written. According to my information, if I am properly informed, it is supported by both employers and employees, it is coordinated, so I do not see the need for amendments to further burden this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u174	I think that the real debate for this National Assembly would be to talk about what the amount of minimum and guaranteed wages is, to assess where the reasons are for the fact that there are more or less still employees who receive a minimum wage, to assess whether it is also true that the minimum wage is increased every year only for the expected growth of living needs and, therefore, for the quality achievements of our society, which are more productive and more realistic wages, does not include, but the Social Democrats' Group has not triggered these issues with its amendment. Why not? Because it has been informed that, on the basis of the agreement between the social partners, there has indeed been substantive harmonisation of the law, as it has been written in the case of quantifications, and this time we have not wanted to modify this agreement, because it could be obvious to us that, at some point or in some cases, we require coordination when coordination and harmonisation takes place, we have comments. That is why I am talking about this because I feel that some of my colleagues or colleagues are talking about this issue, which is not the contents of the amendment. I am even more surprised by the debate on the amendment because it really represents a minimum of minimum and is in line with the requirements of the social partners. They proposed that the law should be supplemented in Article 2, paragraph 2, by including consultation with the social partners. If you ask me: consultation with the social partners means nothing more than informing the social partners that the government has adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph, the expected growth in the expected growth and that the Minister, who has these powers, will decide and publish, on the basis of this, an increase in the minimum wage; and informs and consults the social partners in advance. What can this counsel mean? This advice is neither consent nor their previous opinion. The Minister may also decide, on the basis of a consultation, on his own initiative, as the Government has decided, but may find that such opinions and arguments may have been expressed in this consultation, which also "wake him" and decide that, if necessary, he will return to the government and find that the proposals for decisions taken by the Government are probably not good. That seems to me to be the least useful thing. And I really don't understand that anyone is asking questions, although this was little, the well-intention of this proposal. When it comes to questions of necessity, I must say, but I am much more surprised because this necessity really stems from the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which I agree is directly useful because it is an international treaty that we have signed. I do not understand, however, that this international treaty, if the desire of the partners, should not be put into law, because then we will be discussing again whether consultation with the social partners is necessary before the Minister takes his own decision, which he can or does not take alone. And I think it's useful that we write it down and that it can't hurt anyone, and it doesn't even disable the function that the government has under this law as well as the minister himself. I would therefore expect this well-meaning proposal, which is in line with the position expressed by the social partners and the state council, to adopt and remove an obstacle which may create a feeling for the social partners that they would not even want to have a prior consultation before the decision is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudi Veršnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Look, I can't agree with the words that have been said to drive out social partners, I don't know where. But look, by this year's August, or, say, by last August, it was a three-party conversation, and after these interviews, the amount of minimum wage was accepted. And if I look at the data, I see that the minimum wage in 2003 was 111.484, increased by 5% in 2004, then increased by 4.3% in 2005, and increased in some places as part of the increase in living costs. And all three were present and unanimously determined this percentage increase. And that's the result. Now I seriously wonder if everyone there was present, why they did not agree to have Slovenia, like Malta, which has 56.2% of the minimum wage in average wages, and Ireland, which has 50%, Luxembourg, which has 49%, why they did not determine it or agree to it in these negotiations. They didn't. They found that things didn't go through, and we stayed at 44.1%. I will also say this, I understand and understand the proposal of the Social Democrats and for me, I have already said that it is totally acceptable, but that such a mechanism must be made so that there will be no situation this year, that two months have not already been increased, even by 2%, but this increase is not. And to think that the proposal that's here before us is "yes." However, the Minister, who will ignore the social partners, I think that he will probably not listen to him, that he will not consult, that he will not listen, and that he will bear the responsibility. I'm sure no one will be able to afford it, not Mr. Petty Officer, not someone else or anyone else after him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you. The State Secretary, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the current practice and the rules of operation of the Economic and Social Council, we need to know that the Economic Social Council is addressing all the laws relating to the social situation and social security of citizens, as well as the minimum wage law. Fearing that the Economic Social Council would not consider or that the government would not submit laws with this content to the Economic Council, it is superfluous. With regard to the amendments; we do not object to the amendment of the Social Democrats, but it is not necessarily necessary to accept it, because the content of this amendment quotes the International Convention of Work No 131, as already mentioned today, provides that the minimum wage law must be dealt with or consulted with by the social partners; this must be consulted by the real government with the social partners. Since the Conventions are directly applied and are not required to be incorporated into the law like the directives, we are obliged to sign that the Convention is also directly applicable, so we do not oppose this amendment, but it is not necessary because in any law that speaks of social protection or the safety of citizens, we do not travel in legal provisions to be dealt with by the Economic and Social Council, because it is a well-established practice. However, we oppose the amendment of the Liberal Democracy because we believe that it would prevent the implementation of the legal provisions themselves. The Minimum Wages Act itself was harmonised in the Economic and Social Council, the partners also agreed on the method of valorisation and proposed to set precise criteria for how minimum wages would be valorised. By being linked to the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, there would be a delay in the process itself. Certainly, I am not sure, but I am sure that there can be changed economic and other situations, as well as social issues, so it will be necessary to coordinate and consult the social partners in any way, whenever a minimum wage is provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you. And I'm opening a third circuit for the application. Secretary of State, thank you. Here you go. We've got two registered in the third round. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you. I really don't understand some things. The law we are talking about in Article 1 has a fixed time for which we accept it, which is one year, from 1 August 2006 to 31 July 2007. This is said to be coordination for the part where minimum wages are expected to increase depending on inflation or on the growth in living needs. Of course, a consensus between the social partners should be reached with regard to the establishment of a minimum wage under international conventions. That can't be denied. However, we can talk about whether that percentage of the increase is necessary or not; and I believe that such consensus is necessary, as I am also convinced by the record of the decision taken in the Economic and Social Council, which speaks about it, and I am also convinced by the opinion of the Council of State, which supports such a position of the Economic and Social Council and has a date of 13.9, which means that this is the date after which we have already adopted solutions on certain matters on the Committee for Work, Family and Social Affairs and have not taken this into account. I still find it most problematic to determine Article 2, the difference between the first order of the Article and the second sentence. Where it is stated in the first line that there is an estimated growth in living needs, I think that the real increase in the cost of living needs should be taken into account. But because there was no willingness to go in this direction and because we were actually doing the Social Democrats well, we came up with a proposal against the coalition Members and Members, just by proposing what we thought might still be adopted. How hard it is or is not hard to negotiate and how long it takes to negotiate, but this cannot be a criterion for or a reason for abandoning the arrangement. The agreement must be, and I would not want the social dialogue to happen as it often does in the debates in the National Assembly, except today that the opposition Members and Members are speaking and not getting a response from the coalition Members and Members to the argument of their positions drawn up by the government. As for the remnants of the past, as for the past, so much - the minimum wage is also known to those countries that did not have these so-called remnants of the past, by sometimes calling it guaranteed wages, and now it is called a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. Comrade Capuder, you want a replica, but you weren't named.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u182	I was mentioned. I've been specifically appointed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u183	I'm not giving you a replica. You can sign up for the next round, which I will open very soon. On the basis of the statements, Comrade Jerovšek, allow me to conduct the meeting. But the word is from a colleague of Squeakle's. Here you go. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u184	Please. I quote letter 12.9.2006, Danica Cvetko, Secretary of the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council unanimously supported the proposal, which states that in Article 2, the annual amount shall be determined by the Minister, the Minister responsible for work, on the basis of the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council. Please let the government explain this to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you. And it's my duty to open a new round of debaters, press the "beginning" button. And we've got four new MPs. The first is Ambassador Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Because I had not been able to replicate the Member of Parliament before. I just said the minimum wage was inherited. It was established in 2004 and 2005 and now amounts to about 122,600 tolars. If it were now set at 150 grand, I don't think anyone would get upset. That means that this amount of minimum wage was inherited.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I was also struck by the debate on the remains of the past, including the minimum wage. And in this regard, I must say that in fact these remnants of the past have a negative impact on the level of minimum wage, but I do not intend to go that far into history. I will go only to the history of Mercator's wages at the time of Mr Jankovic's directorship, who is now a candidate for the mayor of Ljubljana and with a successful "piar" and with large money, even the merchants, who were close to or on the minimum wage, have convinced him that they were crying when in the nicknames "so the manager" resigned, and when he later sold his assets to the Cayman Islands, it was found that he had saved a few thousand euros each day in Mercator, he saved so much, he managed so well in Mercator that they were minimum wages or wages in Mercator small. I don't know, they may be very low, close to the minimum wage in Compass, but Mr Bergar, all of them members of Forum 21, all of these gentlemen sold to Croatia; and all of these are supposed to be connected, but all of these processes are linked to the payment of Mr Jankovic's pre-election campaign in Ljubljana, so they say. And that is why it is right that Mrs Potrata has mentioned the remnants of the past that have affected the very minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u190	President, I would really like the government to explain to us the letters of the Economic Social Council of 12.9.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Now I do not know whether I have understood the honourable Mrs Potrate, who said that the minimum wage should be increased with the real increase in the cost of living. Look, I just can't imagine it, because we are agreeing on August for the period from August to the end of July next year, and the increase in cost of living is not realistically foreseeable, but there are certain methodologies, expectations, in short a whole bunch of bases on which this salary is determined, so I don't know if I understand it correctly. I don't think she was right about that definition of minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next round. Here you go, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u194	You know, continuing with the second, third, fourth round of fast fingers is not possible unless we get the government's response. We asked the government about an official document stating that all partners unanimously supported the method of coordination, as set out in the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia; I have before me this document. Let the government explain this to us! We had this debate on the committee once, but they started to explain that it was not clear whether the government supported it. But here's the document, the official document, with the seal of the National Assembly -- unanimously. Now you say that you cannot support the LDS proposal because the Economic and Social Council did not say so. The Economic and Social Council said both - a way of coordination and that it wants the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council, because this is logical. Why does that make sense? Unlike Mr Veršnik, Article 1 of this Law has made it very clear what a mechanism is. For all six years to come, you can calculate minimum wages - because the government document has already been confirmed and it is very clear how much the cost of increasing living needs will be in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. And everyone can figure out what the minimum wage is today. And once we've adopted the law, that's the thing. And we're just saying, if you have an economic and social council protector, which everyone, the government, employers and trade unions have unanimously supported - it's true that they've given the union a proposal - then we have something else open. That people who earn a minimum wage will also have something like this from this "mildness for all". So I would ask the government to explain this, this obvious breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl, you know I can't tell the government representative to give his opinion. Since now the representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, has asked for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u196	Already on the home committee, this issue was raised and a government representative operating in the Economic and Social Council stated on the home committee that there was no vote and no vote in favour of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a new round of applications. Three of them have been reported. Mr. Dusan Kumer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you. I'm a fourth-round winner. I just want to add something to this continuity and inherited. Here it is a little bit of conceivable that it is not possible to define in advance for two or three or four years around this minimum wage. I'll go to the theme that was yesterday. If the prizes in the supervisory boards in those same companies, where they have a minimum wage or an average over this minimum wage, could be fixed in advance and are a thousand times higher than this minimum wage, then the projection for the minimum wage for a period of time could also be defined in advance. Let me just give you an illustration: one hour of supervision in Luka Koper, where there are many of those above the minimum wage, is 800,000 tolars, and the minimum wage then proposed is 730 tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Employers and employees supported the proposal of what the Economic and Social Council has proposed for us, and we are doing nothing but following what the trade unions have proposed and what the workers have proposed. Why? Since we think it is appropriate to consider whether a minimum wage in addition to the cost of living could be forecasted forward, it is appropriate to estimate the increase in the minimum wage for the actual cost of living actually realized, since in 2007 these will be more than 2.1% of the point. There will undoubtedly be more, due to, we know, rounding, etc. Secondly, to be seen at any time on the basis of a discussion in the Economic and Social Council, whether the share that reflects the contribution of productivity should also be taken into account and thus increase the minimum wage. Otherwise, gentlemen, you will never be able to raise minimum wages. The minimum wage will be below EUR 580 by 2012. This is what the calculation shows because Mr Bajuk has so low-estimated the growth of living costs because he wants to squeeze budgetary users. It's so banal, Mr. Veršnik and others.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you. And Mr. Franz Capuder. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Since the Secretary of State does not have the opportunity to look into our Lotus Notes, where the minutes of all the replies are also, I might read what was said at the meeting of the committee about this agreement of the government representative. Marko Strauss, who was present at this meeting, said this: "I must say this myself, that I was this morning at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council, the government representative who spoke against such a union proposal as is stated here." It's about this agreement. "The vote wasn't and the only thing in the government that said anything about it was me and I know what I was saying. In fact, I have come up against such a proposal as has been formulated here. So there was no agreement. That's what I can say." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Yes, Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The key negotiator in this tripartite agreement, which should be as a consultation after this amendment, which we want to support, is, of course, a representative of employers. And far from that, you know that you would advocate for me not to judge somehow the mild form of the desired agreement, that some kind of honest conversation and agreement just runs to be opposed by employers. No, no, no. I expect that certain measures currently being taken by the government are to relieve the cost of working with employers, that they will have such effects, that these employers too, where some humanity still has to remain if this new situation gives them the opportunity, but they also agree with the trade unionists, that we will not raise the minimum wage by, say, 2%. But if we expect what the real rise in prices of living needs will be, we will say, the situation is better, but we will somehow agree on 2.1%, 2.2%, I don't know why we would defend it if the employer's representative in this sense also acted that it's right that this dialogue stays because the two discussers understood that it's dangerous if this dialogue is also legally established to make the government and the department of department talk about it being bad for employers, I don't think so. No, this partnership must be between the employer and the employee. Even in low-income industries, there can be no fact that today employment has paid minimally a piece of bricks. All of this is also reflected to the employer in the implementation of the business profiles he has set up in terms of the management of the supervisory boards for one year. So I think we're really just brushing our teeth, so we're contributing some kind of positive energy in society, if we give this option, it suggests we're having a conversation. No commitment is made to a government that is obliged by law to change that if this dialogue was, I would say, failed. Because the amendment only speaks of consultation and the government has to look for it, no matter who forms the government. There are great challenges to society and not closing up when the forms of this negotiation are non-binding, but we are only encouraging them, that is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u206	I think that these last words are still the last appeal to colleagues who, of course, strongly insist in the ruling coalition on what has been said earlier by the government. Since Mr Strovs, said to be the Undersecretary of State in the Economic and Social Council, objected to what the workers proposed, but did not oppose the employers, he objected, now that everyone in this Chamber would oppose the establishment of social dialogue in Slovenia at any time as regards the minimum wage. It's a very narrow view. Someone said that they advocate that as many people as possible not on minimum wages - yes, make it on 1 tolar, and they'll all be above minimum wage, but that's not the point. The point is that the minimum wage and escalation should ensure such an escalation that reflects the actual realization of the cost of living, but not some forecast for 5 years ahead, and this can only be achieved by the Minister for Labour, the family and I stress - social affairs on the Economic - Social Council. If we do not give him this commitment in any form of amendment to the law, then of course we have committed the government to continue talking with the unions and employers, because there is no longer any need to come to the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - it's an effigy of the law on changes to the law on campaigning, the short-term procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Ivan Grill. I give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the law for further explanation. Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u208	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law that we are considering today is, in fact, short by text, but it has meaning to practically eliminate the inconsistencies that the existing law has introduced in the area of inequality before the law, which is also clearly provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution that we are all equal before the law. This inequality is shown by the fact that at the time of the electoral campaign each municipality was able in its own way to formulate decisions and thus to impose financial burdens on electoral campaign organisers and thus to cause inequality in terms of the financial costs of the individual organiser, as well as the possibility of additional postering. In the debate, it was often heard that each municipality provides free seats, but practice shows that these cities were significantly under-estimated, such as actual needs. And it was precisely because of the inadequacy of the existing law that such differences arose. In this law, however, this inequality is being eliminated, in a way that we can only speak here at the time of the electoral campaign, not in any commercial advertising or postering, but only at that time, it must obtain consent from the owner or land or advertising tables, pansies or buildings or any area where it can be postered. The law or this amendment provides that this consent must be obtained and it is sufficient that the organiser of the electoral campaign can also advertise on these surfaces. Another important amendment to this law is that, after the election campaign has been completed, any administrator of these posters or owner may require that the organiser remove all posters or other propaganda material, otherwise at the expense of the organiser, at the expense of the organiser, it will be removed by someone else. We know that in recent years we have always witnessed a lack of respect for these provisions that all propaganda material must be removed after the election campaign. The law itself, as it is, has not received any comments from the legislative and legal service, nor has it been supported by the Committee of the State Council, the financial implications for the state budget, supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that this law is a good one and that we accept it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye! At its 24th meeting, on 13.9.2006, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending the electoral campaign law as a work force. The draft law was also examined by the Legal and Legislative Service and, in terms of compliance with the proposal, had no comments. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the bill and stressed that the permission of the competent authority, which requires, in addition to the owner's consent, an administrative obstacle to be removed under the applicable electoral campaign law is unnecessary. The Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia also communicated its position and supported the bill. As a matter of fact, it began with the question posed by Mr Miran Potrč to the representative of the applicants, the first-signed Ivan Grill, in particular in terms of whether he had considered withdrawing the bill, and this, therefore, the first-signed proposer, replied that he had not thought about it and had no intention of withdrawing the law. In an additional introductory explanation of the draft law, the representative of the motioners, Mr Ivan Grill, explained the reasons for preparing an amendment to Article 9 of the Electoral Campaign Act. He stressed in particular that the electoral campaign law provides for municipalities to provide a certain number of free posters for advertising during an election campaign or referendum. In doing so, he pointed out that free posters are generally insufficient in municipalities and that additional advertising places should also be provided. The issue of charging municipal taxes was also addressed. The fees charged by individual municipalities so far were extremely high in the costs of the electoral campaign, in particular in the case of national elections, when each constituency comprised a number of municipalities and each municipality with a decree had different arrangements for additional payment. The bill therefore provides, in a new way, that where the organiser of the election campaign does not obtain the owner's consent or when the advertising campaign does not remove its posters after the end of the campaign, the manager of the advertising posters will do so at the expense of the organiser of the electoral campaign. The proposal also stressed that the draft law does not have any financial implications for the state budget, but ensures respect for the constitutional principle of equality, as well as, as a consequence, individual provisions and new solutions, more effective protection of the environment. On the basis of the above, it is the view of the proposed group that it is also appropriate for the State assembly to adopt it. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee further voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law jointly and also proposes to the National Assembly that it be adopted in the text before it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thanks again for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we had already discussed the issue of advertising during the election campaign and felt that it was reasonable and correct that such a change was also trying to be enforced through the law, so we also decided, together with coalition partners, that we had prepared the amendment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this amendment of the law will introduce more correctness into our space, easier to carry out electoral campaigns, which is, after all, the interest of every democratic state, and that we will also support the amendment of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We said our views on the committee and also yesterday. On both occasions, we have proposed that the law should not be decided on, especially because the interference with the conditions of the electoral campaign at a time when the electoral campaign is already under way, contrary to the rule of law and contrary to equality before the law, because they will have and have different candidates, the SDS and the coalition, Mr Grill and the rest of you have already agreed, under the assumption of the majority, on which courts, gardens and fences you will have electoral panels and the names and faces of your candidates and candidates, others because we still hoped that the rule of law and legal certainty will not be applied in our country, so to say that the proposal is correct, the proposal is incorrect, but it is the will of the majority. If we really did not want to implement this specifically for the electoral campaign for local elections, then we could also apply the substantive provisions, although not necessary, but possible, by also implementing them by saying in the transitional provisions that this law does not apply to elections that are already under way, or by "vacatio lepis" within a month or so, so do not say that your purpose is not clear and clear; to arrange this for the current local elections as well. In this part, we say that this is not only unnecessary, but that it is unfair and contrary to the principles of the rule of law, because of this proposal we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u216	The current law also regulates postering. So far, it is stipulated in the law that during the election campaign the municipality designates a place for postering. The municipality must ensure, free of charge, that all election campaign organisers have an equal position in the placement of posters in these posters. All municipalities do not adhere to this provision of the law and do not provide for free posters, but if they do, these cities are largely under-represented and informed by the electorate. It is true that the law allows for payment in additional poster places, which is allowed by the consent of the owner or manager of advertising tables, buildings, other buildings or land, of course against payment. Since they have a different structure in the municipalities, candidates in different municipalities are in an unequal position. In many municipalities, even though the posters are bloated with the consent of the owner of the building or the land, they have to pay outside certain posters and pay for this utility fee, which is also contrary to the Constitutional Court’s decision. With the amendment of the law, the municipality or the competent postering authority outside the posters places will not be allowed to charge any utility fees or other charges, and the consent of the owner or administrator of advertising tables, buildings, other buildings or plots would be sufficient to pay outside the posters during the election campaign. The adoption of this law will put the organizers of the electoral campaign in an equal position in all municipalities in Slovenia. This is particularly important for electoral campaigns, both for the European Parliament and for the National Assembly, as well as for presidential elections and for referendums, where, for example, individual constituencies are divided into individual municipalities which have different arrangements for elections to the National Assembly. In New Slovenia we are convinced that it is right to unify this. We are also of the opinion that any statement made on the electoral year and the postponement of the adoption of this law is superfluous, and even the excuse to vote, since we have virtually every year of elections. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The bill amending the electoral campaign law refers to one matter or only one question. Article 9 of the electoral campaign law, which regulates postering outside the posters of places designated as such at the time of the electoral campaign, is being redefined. Under the current regime, payment outside municipal posters is permitted only by the consent of the owner or manager of advertising tables, buildings and other buildings and land. This consensus is necessary and therefore remains in the proposal for a new text of Article 9 of the Law. However, the problem of the current regime is in the second paragraph of the applicable law, which provides that payment outside certain payment venues is required to obtain a licence issued by a competent authority at the request of an electoral campaign organiser. This provision resulted in certain local communities having different criteria regulating this issue in different ways, and some municipalities even charged municipal fees for this payment on private land. Such legislation allows for different regulation, resulting in an unequal position of candidates in individual municipalities, which is particularly the case in national elections. In order to respect the principle of equality, it is therefore necessary to amend Article 9 of the Law. The proposed solution is also the only logical and clear and clear regulation of private postering and prevents the charging of utility fees or other charges, since the electoral campaign is not a profitable activity in itself. There is no reason for us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to withdraw from the law, as it follows a good solution, which must also be summarised by the new law on referendum and electoral campaign. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Well, what I'm about to say will somehow repeat what has been said since we adopted the agenda and when a proposal for a decision has been proposed to withdraw from the current agenda of this meeting. You will probably recall that at the time we were convinced that this would be possible or even necessary, but such a proposal for a decision was not adopted. However, we support the abolition of the requested permission of the competent authority when it is being postered as part of an election campaign on private land. We also support the abolition of billing for such postering. We also support this by removing it at the expense of those who wrongly posterise, crying whenever necessary. And we agree with the government, which also supports the proposal of the law on the substantive side. The law is fine, what we consider inappropriate is the time of adoption of this law, or if we are already adopting this law, another deadline for implementation should be established, for the validity of this law, and not now that the election campaign is really good time. So it will happen to us that some will pay and others will not be allowed to put up their posters without permission and others will not. And that's probably something that's not good for our legal order, and it's not something that would be good for instilling confidence among voters, so we're opposed not to the law, but to the way this law is being passed or the time that this law will enter into force. Now, because we force this law to be adopted in every way, I can't view it as volunteerism, as a strong ambition to enforce the will of someone, which in law, even in democracy, is probably never good. Therefore, we cannot provide unanimous support for this bill, which is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote, after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENTAL LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Dr Mark Pavli. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law to further explain the draft law. Here you go, Dr. Pavlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. Dear colleagues, as much as he insists. Imagine a weapon that fires two arrows on the wires and lowers the voltage of 50,000 volts or more or 200 thousand volts into the human body. And imagine that it is possible to buy this weapon, which is not even called a weapon, in every store that deals with it. Scary. And that is why I tried to prevent the use of these weapons in the police a while ago with the support of some of my fellow Members and colleagues, and the amendment of the arms law is only a logical continuation of this experiment. This is not about my kind of vicious opposition nagging to the government, if something has to be changed, because you do not agree with it, but about the logical consequence of the professional public pointing out the danger of such funds, including for self-defence. Let me mention, for example, the Institute for Health Protection, which, in its opinion, stated that the device, an electrical paralyser, can only be in the hands of qualified personnel who understands and knows the operation of these weapons. The Institute for Forensic Medicine, in conclusion of its exchange, points out a number of people who can not only harm them but even take their lives, and statistics, for example from the United States, show that there were reportedly more than 100 deaths; and also some doctors, such as Ivan Stravs, a traumatologist from the Clinical Center, say that such weapons are allowed only if they are used by trained personnel. I am not in principle against the use of a paralyser in the hands of the police, of course under special conditions, and when we talked about the law on the police, my main argument was that this paralyser was not going to be introduced by a regulation or by a sub-legislative act, but should be our decision, i.e. the decision of the national assembly, the decisions of Members and Members. But we are the ones who signed this, very strictly, consciously against free sale, and our country has recently been one of the few countries where it was possible to buy, believe it or not, for 17,000 tolars, for 17,000 tolars. This has also been pointed out by some Members and Members to mention if I may use the name of my fellow Member, Comrade Shirco, with a written question, and to mention, this is very important, Mr Janez Rupnik, the senior police inspector who signed the final report of the working group on the introduction of an electric stunner into the police, which ultimately states that the paralysis should be classified as a special category of weapons and that free sale should be prohibited. Experience from other countries also shows that it is not possible to buy a paralyser, for example, Spain, Germany, Great Britain, Switzerland, and in this place I can only express satisfaction and also praise to Minister Matei, who is unfortunately not among us today, that I hope, on the basis of our legal initiative, he has also reacted with a special regulation, by means of a sub-legislative act based on law and paralysis, particularly the most dangerous Taser M26. Today, when we talk about this marriage, it is impossible to buy a paralyser anymore. So I won't be disappointed if you don't support this law, especially the MP and the MPs of the coalition, because obviously we have common powers, if I may say so, to resolve the matter already. I have only one thought, and that is why I still defend the law, and I know that nothing good is written to it in the next few hours; that is, the question is whether it is enough to change it theoretically from day to day, because it is in the hands of the Minister and is sufficient. My opinion is that it is such a delicate weapon that it is necessary to intervene in the law, perhaps not as strictly as a regulation, the regulation simply prohibits, absolutely prohibits the use or purchase of such weapons. Our proposal, however, is that such weapons, like firearms, would require a special permit. There are probably marginal exceptional cases, I don't know, security guards, a person who is greatly threatened by certain deviant groups, when such a paralyser could still serve as a defence tool. In short, to conclude, the arms law is meant as a well-intentioned gesture, as something which, of course, also advocates and supports Amnesty International. As you know, it's a non-governmental civilian group known all over the world. However, I will be fully satisfied if this regulation, which the Minister has adopted, remains in force, and from here on out, it is said to have been so for several months now, so we have learned on the Internal Policy Committee that such dangerous weapons will not be possible to buy. In short, nothing wrong, dear Members and Members, if you do not support this law, it will be wrong for the electric paralyser to sneak back through the side door with a new regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have faced the issue of accessibility for the purchase of a paralyser to unauthorized persons and the introduction of a paralyser into the Slovenian police several times. On the basis of the reports of the NGO Amnesty International, Ambassador Miran Potrč, Head of the Parliamentary Group, submitted a question to the Ministry on 7 June last year asking when the working group will present its position on the use of an electric paralyser in the police or in special units; how the working group will identify the possible use of an electric paralyser by unauthorized persons and how the Ministry assesses the possibility of free purchase of an electric paralyser in the arms law and whether the Ministry will propose its amendments. At that time, the Ministry also indicated in its reply, inter alia, a study of the possibility of reforming the arms law. Next time, we faced the paralysis in the context of the consideration of this item at the 12th session of the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. At the time, however, the Commission did not support all the proposed conclusions, but the debate opened that the availability of a paralyser for unauthorized persons was a serious problem, showing serious thought about it, but we also received an answer to the question that the paralyser was only experimentally introduced into the special units of the Slovenian police as a means of enforcement to replace a much stricter, stronger and dangerous form, which was a weapon of fire. Well, I then asked the Minister of the Interior myself, who also asked what the position of the Minister of the Interior was on the special law. Let me say that the Ministry then said - the answer bears the date 21 March 2006 - that in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia 561 electric shockers were sold to individuals - these are the Paralyzers for which the touch must be direct - that they also sold 30 paralysers for which the arrows are fired, that is, the Taser M26. Well, it was also ensured that all customers were also duly recorded. Well, and in response, the Ministry continued to predict the possibility that, in accordance with Article 7 of the Arms Act, they would prohibit or restrict the acquisition, possession, entry and possession of certain types of paralysers by means of an appropriate regulation. They also announced the reasons for possible exacerbation of the conditions for the acquisition of other electroshockers, with the obligation to notify and issue a notification sheet, with an individual meeting the conditions set out in Articles 2, 3 and 6 of the Arms Act in addition to the age of 21 years. In the Socialist Group of Members, we have also been expecting for some time that the government will present such a proposal for a law. We didn't see that coming. Now that we have considered this proposed parliamentary law, we have found that it has been settled by means of a sub-legislative act, and yet we do not think that it would be a bad problem to regulate this subject in a specific law. That is why we support the proposal for a law tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia with the first-signed Dr Mark Pavli, so that I believe that the following procedure could also address the weakness that the government points out that the proposal now has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u226	Good-bye! The bill submitted by a fellow Member, Dr Marko Pavliha, to the legislative procedure provides for the purchase and possession of an electric paralyser only upon prior authorisation and under conditions applicable to firearms. The draft law requires a special prior authorisation for the use of a paralyser and to a certain extent does not take into account the fact that there are also several paralysers of different importance on the market. The content of the bill and the warning of various organisations have already been responded by the Government, as we have heard from the Internal Policy Committee, by a regulation banning the purchase, possession, introduction, import and use of certain types of weapons that prohibit the purchase, possession, introduction, import and carrying of arms that cause muscle cramps, which involve the whole body, by electrical means. In this ranking, it is mainly a paralyser, which was also the most discussed during these discussions, Taser M26. In the context of the debate we had on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the members of the Committee have also been quite familiar with some of the open issues that were still at the beginning of the debate as a starting point. In particular, some matters were highlighted and we wanted answers and explained to the Minister of the Interior. Thus, the question was raised whether such electrical paralysers obtained before the adoption of the Regulation were still found in shops or in sales. In his explanation, the Minister stressed that the Regulation is fully respected and no longer imports or sales of these weapons. The following also raised the question of what is the possible use of this weapon in those who had already bought it before the adoption of the regulation and whether a regulation on the use of this weapon had been adopted in the special police unit. The explanation stated that around 18 pieces of such weapons were sold to natural persons and some pieces were sold to companies, and this equipment has a special status, as it is generally known that it is difficult to interfere with the property rights acquired by someone under the applicable legislation when they bought this piece of equipment before the regulation itself was adopted. However, he also said that the Ministry had a comprehensive list of persons who had bought this equipment and that it was possible to also have accurate and complete control if possible, if such weapons were used, and at the theft of the event, to determine which taser had been used. According to the Minister, the Special Police Unit uses weapons in accordance with its internal acts. The government has therefore already covered the issue of free sale by means of the regulation and the use of the paralyser, which is most controversial, and therefore, in our opinion, the adoption of the arms law or its amendment is somewhat unnecessary, as the applicant himself pointed out at the outset. In New Slovenia, however, we believe it is necessary to examine in the long term what kind of weapons could and could be allowed, such weapons, of course, under very strict conditions, as this is regulated for firearms; hence, who can possess them and what conditions they must fulfil in doing so. In the case of New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a decision of the parent committee that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u228	In fact, Dr. Pavlich should now say thank you for making us burdensome, to think too much and perhaps to think whether we are right or wrong, because in the beginning he himself has made it very clear that there will be no disappointment, even if the bill is not adopted, and that there will be nothing wrong with it, because it will not be accepted. We are probably all aware that the ambition of this law was a kind of restriction, that it had already been regulated by a regulation, which was significantly stricter than the bill itself, and therefore there is no particular reason not to support with a peaceful conscience the position of either a committee or a government position that was not inclined to adopt this law. If I understand exactly what Dr Pavliha meant, I am now paraphrasing, more pedagogical, in the sense that in advance the government and preventively, it is necessary to continue to warn or the ministry that it is not a good regulation that is unnecessary to amend. And as long as such a regulation remains, there is no reason special, valid reason that we should now further regulate it with the law, although it is clear that we understand the degree or hierarchy of the law and regulation. However, it is necessary, and I say this purely personal position, to say that some of this reasoning still holds, namely, that such weapons may interfere with human rights, that they may endanger physical integrity, personal dignity, personal freedom and all life, and that we must avoid as much as possible, but that we are very often in a situation where we are not the ones who are going to do so, but when we have to respond to it. And if there is no one who would put us at risk when someone threatens our lives and all the other dignity with us, and if we cannot defend ourselves ourselves, then we are in power and powerlessly left to the one who is aggressive toward us and is either stronger or not. Thus, we can expect, as has already been the case in some discussions, an attempt by law to possibly regulate this right to own, enter and use in the future in a slightly different way. Otherwise, as I say, in our Group of Members, we will support the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party of the proposed Act on the Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act, which was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed, respected Dr Mark Pavliho, does not support. However, it is not supported because the proposed content of amendments or additions is simply not necessary. The fact is that what the bill provides for assumes that only one type of electric stunner is present on the market. However, this is not the case and, in fact, there are several types of electric paralyzers on the market, with different modes of operation, and thus their effect and the risk of their use are different. The use of certain types of electrical paralysers causes more or less intense temporary muscle numbness of the whole body, some other types of muscle spasm of the whole body. It is therefore not appropriate to regulate all types of paralysers in the same way as the proposed law that we are considering according to these different types and the different consequences of the use. As has already been said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a regulation in this area which has banned all kinds of electrical paralysers whose use is caused by temporary muscle cramps of the whole body. It was not because of this or just because, as the proposalr said, it was personal, but because of two other opposition members, but because of the restriction or prohibition of free sale, many others, including the coalition Members, took part in me. And by this Regulation, this infamous Tasor M26 paralyser, whose purchase and use the proposed law is intended to restrict the applicant, has already banned the government itself by this Regulation, namely their sale, use, introduction of property. And there is something else that I would like to mention here that the regulation here has given more or more than the law that we are considering. So the purpose that the proponents want to pursue with the proposed law is already real and even more so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we regret that the applicants did not ask the Ministry of the Interior what the situation was before they introduced the legislative procedure for the examination and adoption of this law, and they would have found that there is no need to amend and supplement the arms law in the field in question, once they have been properly taught. If we did so and were thoroughly aware of the actual situation before the legislative process was introduced, we would save time for ourselves and us, as well as for all others who are directly engaged in this procedure, and could spend that time on anything else, perhaps something useful, either at the legislative or enforcement level, if you want. However, you are the proponents, at least so I can conclude, having had a political effect in front of you, which you wanted to create in public, see, the safety of Slovenian citizens is threatened, access to dangerous weapons is not limited to anyone, and we have prepared a law that will restrict access to dangerous weapons and thus directly reduce our threat. So we're the ones who take care of your well-being if the government doesn't care about you. Whether this is true or not, it is important that such an impression is made in public and this, in my opinion, was intended. If we had a serious intention to improve the legislative situation in this area, as well as to improve the implementation of the legal provisions alone, then one would expect first to establish communication with the competent Ministry of Home Affairs, take a thorough look at the situation and then make any appropriate suggestions on this basis, either at the legal or sub-legislative level. As it is said, we will not support or support the proposed law amending and supplementing the arms law of the Slovenian Democratic Party or the proposal that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or no later than 2100 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, but given that Mr Starman has come to the Chamber, also a representative of the government, I propose that you first give your views to the government representative and the working body, and then to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u233	If the Members present agree, they can, but should be an exception. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Here you are, Mr. Starman, to speak on behalf of the committee, the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the government, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, participated in the work of the Committee. No amendments were tabled until the end of the hearing at the meeting of the Committee by qualified proposers to the proposal under consideration. The bill is adopted for the purpose of increasing - as explained in the explanatory statement - the proposal for the possible granting of State guarantees from 150 billion to 218 billion tolars. This should also provide for the implementation of certain programmes, in particular the programme for the accelerated construction of motorways, which was adopted in January this year in the National Assembly, as well as the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, d.d. to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of billions and 30 million tolars. If we did not accept this increased possibility of issuing national guarantees, whose framework is limited to 100 billion tolars, of course, a programme to accelerate the construction of motorways would be discontinued and some of the railway infrastructure reconstruction programme could not be implemented. The Committee noted that we are very late in the area of railway infrastructure rehabilitation, nor has the State guarantee law on railways been introduced, which is, there is a chance that we will be late or that this will not allow European funds to be drawn up and traffic flows to pass. The Committee decided unanimously that, given that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent working body, had not adopted any amendments to the draft law, the Committee notes that the meeting of the National Assembly is to discuss and vote on the draft law in the proposed text, which was published in Rapporteur No 93 of 14.9.2006. This is the proposal for a decision and the committee proposes to the National Assembly to approve the amendment proposal, to supplement the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. And once again, Mr. Matjaz Han. Please. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, the well-respected assembly. We do not oppose the law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, but we have quite a few critical comments and questions about the proposer, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I would first touch the law with a positive side. A positive amendment is Article 1 of the Act, which allows for the reduction of the country's payment deadline for investment transfers that are not paid on a case-by-case basis. This certainly contributes to greater financial discipline not only in the economy, but in general, as it has been shown so far that, due to the late payment of its obligations, the State has also contributed to an increase in payment non-discipline, resulting in a reduction in the liquidity of the economy, which, through increased short-term indebtedness, has contributed to hampering its development and growth. A major change in the law is an increase in the volume of State guarantees. This increases from 159 to 218 billion tolars. We have some time to comment on this decision by the Social Democrats, as the decision to increase the level of guarantees is a result of government decisions already made. In doing so, I would point out the approved annual plan of the DARS for the construction of motorways and the adopted legislation on the agreement of the DARS to rent credits and the necessary guarantees for this commitment. In doing so, we must follow the government's assurances that decisions have been taken under the conditions for implementing the adopted and urgent programme for the construction of motorways for 2007 and 2008 and for the possibility of hiring a favourable loan with the European Investment Bank. At the moment, Slovenia is facing a fact that has been implemented, and the government has not given us any other choice. However, the key question is why the government is so late with the bill, as it would be logical and necessary for the government to propose an appropriate amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget at the same time as the proposals of the law on debt and guarantee. We have repeatedly warned the government that it does not work consistently and that it is poorly coordinating individual tasks, but obviously nothing has changed with the adoption of this law. I hope our warnings won't be overheard this time. In the work of increasing the level of railway modernisation guarantee, however, the question arises why the government is late with programmes and relevant laws to provide funds for railways. It is clear that in this area Slovenia is largely late due to the government. Concerned warnings from the European Union circles also confirm that the work is poorly carried out, that Slovenia can eventually fall out of priority in the fifth corridor. The neglect of geostrategic positions in Slovenia is contrary to the desire for greater development and growth, which is why we call on the government to answer this question and to accelerate the necessary activities to avoid isolated Slovenia from European transport flows and global economic markets. However, with these and critical comments, we will still support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budget. We support its increase from 150 to 218 billion so far, mainly because the resources to which the Public Agency for Rail Transport and Dars d.d. will be entrusted will be available. used for urgently needed investments that cannot be deferred. Amendments to the law at this time are needed mainly because decisions on the most urgent investments in railway infrastructure and on the accelerated construction of the premurks of the motorway were adopted after the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007. The public transport agency programme for 2006 and 2007 covers investments related to the use of European funds, as well as those urgent investments that are important for rail safety. In view of the fact that the programme was adopted and that the necessary resources were not provided for these purposes in the 2006 budget, it is necessary to provide its own share of the amount of 8.9 billion sitt by renting a loan for which the State guarantees. As regards motorways in Prekmurje, the decision on accelerated construction was taken in January 2006. At that time, it was found that additional funds from new loans, which are strictly intended for specific sections and for which State guarantees will be required, would be needed for these sections for 2006. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there is no need for further justification for the need for these investments, because much has already been said about this, but we are also convinced that any thought of stopping works on these sections is unacceptable because the transport situation linking the Hungarian border to the rest of Slovenia is so critical that it would mean for people living on these roads to have a real little disaster. We think it would also be right to say that from the envisaged guarantee of SIT 60 billion for Dars in 2006, only about 18 billion will be needed, so that actual consumption does not increase from 150 billion to 218 billion, but from 150 billion to 176 billion. The guarantee must be accepted for the entire amount of 60 billion because the funds are earmarked and the contract must be signed in full. It may also be necessary to emphasise here the fact that faster investment will also return faster and that Dars d.d. those who, according to the assurance of a number of experts, will be able to repay the loans themselves. What can we expect if we decide not to grant an additional assignment? In this case, I think we should immediately adopt an amendment to the annual highway renewal plan for 2006. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that such a decision is not necessary and we support the amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007, with a view to increasing it from 150 billion to 218 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you very much. As regards the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we supported this proposed law, the law on additions and amendments on the Committee, but the law is short, the meeting was short, and the report was short-circuited, and perhaps something has also fallen out in this report. I miss the record in this report that there have been concerns regarding Article 3 concerning warnings concerning the collection of compensation for the use of building land and the correction of the law for 2005. In Article 37, the year 2005 is now coming, and we are talking about the 2006/2007 law, which is the law on the implementation of this year's budget and next year's budget, not the one that has already been completed and which is a matter of the past. On the committee itself, we have not received an answer to this question, and today we will not have it because there is no discussion and because we can only ask once more what is wrong with the fact that we are legitimizing things in return. Otherwise, the Group is inclined to support this law because, in Article 1 and Article 2, which will be operational, we will contribute something to make better and more regular payments to those who are contractors of the works ordered by the State and also because we are convinced that it is right that the construction of motorways is being accelerated and that, for this reason, it is necessary to provide adequate financial resources, in particular we believe that this needs to be supported now that part of Slovenia, which has so far been neglected with regard to these constructions. Despite concerns about the provisions on compensation for the use of building land, which are illogical and meaningless, which in the new proposal of the Law on the Financing of the Communities even speaks of the fact that the State will be able to collect more compensation to municipalities than it has foreseen to be able to collect, that is to say, such nonsense has occurred, we will support this law because Articles 1 and 2 are significantly more important than this Article 3, which means, in some way, the restoration of history or the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. This will ensure that the programme, the accelerated programme for the construction of motorways, which we have adopted in this National Assembly on 16.1.2006, can be continued and successfully implemented. I think that this will also make it possible to lay the groundwork and also call on the Transport Ministry to prepare, as soon as possible, appropriate laws on railway infrastructure guarantees, as we have discussed on the committee itself. There's something else I'd like to say. The fact is that in our country we will have to think very seriously about how to reduce, start a process of reducing public consumption in gross product, and therefore one option is to clear up some of the direct expenditure related to investments in areas where it is possible to ensure that investments themselves are also provided for the real return of this property. I think that the country must play a more role in this role in providing aid guarantees in obtaining favourable international credits, rather than as an investor. However, those who are the managers of individual programmes and projects must ensure that economic investments are made as quickly as possible from the return made under this heading and, of course, over the long term, should reduce the direct costs of the country's budget as much as possible. This applies to the area of the construction of motorways, railway infrastructure and many other things, which are of an economic nature and have the possibility that these investments, based on their revenues, will return in the future and, of course, in the longer term. Once again, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will of course support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeaky on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u244	We cannot support the bill in the parliamentary club because we believe that the law, which provides for such a huge increase in guarantees, should simply be submitted at the time of the adoption of the budget, not after we have reached the national assembly before the end of the year. That is why we are opposed to such a law and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Please, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members has not been given a word because of our mistake to present the position of the Group of Members. Let me say we're going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u247	It went a little too fast, you could shut it down. Please, please, now you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that. Since our parliamentary group has not been given a word because of our mistake to present its position, I will not present it now that my colleague Anderlič will not have a problem understanding the rules of procedure. Let me just say that we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the domestic working body to the draft law, there is no possibility to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the vote, after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. It's the third draft of the blood clotting law. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister Mag. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u250	Now I'm going to be brief. I would only like to highlight some of the things that have already been presented here in part. The area of blood supply has so far been regulated by the Blood Supply Act in 2000, after which there has been a change in the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia with the European Community and in the legal order of the European Community concerning the supply of blood, so a new law, including the provisions of the European legal order, has to be drawn up. These are two Directives of the European Parliament, one 2002/98 and the other 2004/33. Our legislation was then to be harmonised until 8 February 2005 by a nine-month deadline for the introduction of Member States. In 2005, however, two other technical directives were adopted, referring also to the law, which will make it possible for me to issue regulations to regulate in detail the procedures and methods for the implementation of the requirements of the law. It's gonna be one and they're already getting ready. I will issue them within one to two months after the law is in force, or practically within a short period of time. The basic principle of the law is in particular to ensure standard quality and safety in the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components, as set out in the two Directives of the European Parliament above. This establishes the European Community criteria for quality and safety in blood transfusions in Slovenia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Initially, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the concept of a bill that follows the standards of quality and safety both in the collection, storage and distribution of blood and blood components. Together, we must find that the topics, questions, individual provisions of the law have been very carefully reopened, discussed both in the context of the first reading, the second and the third. I must say that it is clear, above all, that the answer to the question where it has repeatedly raised the fear that someone is taking something with this law. The law clearly states that there is still a national organizer of the Red Cross of Slovenia's blood-giving actions, and thus a clear message is given that we do not want to take on any of its roles in this area, not only in Slovenia, but also wider. But surely, in the recent celebration of the Jubilee, we also wish him success on the part of the New Slovenia Group of Members in his mission, which he has carried out and carried out with us. Of course, we are also of the view that others can also organise or participate in the organisation of blood donation actions, in particular to expand the network of potential organisers, both to different societies, schools, organisations, Karitas or other groups, who would feel a need or demand from citizens to organise the action, of course, according to the criteria for quality standards. Let us also stress once again that in New Slovenia we are aware of the responsibilities that someone has in organising such actions, but we stress that other competent authorities and not organisers care about quality and standard quality. This is how we generally assess that the bill is good and that is why we will also support it in this third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a new blood supply law should provide self-sufficient, regular, safe and quality blood supply, properly regulate the transfusion testing of patients and hospitals, and introduce good clinical practice in the treatment of blood and blood products. In addition, the law must clearly lay down the powers, responsibilities and supervision of the implementation of the law and the important health tasks laid down by it. The law deals with a very sensitive and important issue for the health of all people. Continued solidarity with patients who need blood or blood products for treatment is essential. It is right to maintain the Slovenian tradition that has fulfilled the principles of voluntary, anonymous, free and self-sufficient blood donation. It is therefore necessary to continue the practice of encouraging, informing, organising and educating blood providers with blood supply, as has been the case in our country so far. The debate on the law focused on the problem of authorised national organisations and adequate supervision to prevent abuse or insufficient safety in the supply and processing of blood. The proposal provides for the establishment of an organisational unit within the framework of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, which, as an authorised authority, will be responsible for the implementation of the law on the quality and safety of blood supply, including the system of hemovigilance. Every three years, the Agency shall draw up a report on the activities carried out, including a report on the measures taken with regard to the supervisory checks and send it to the European Commission. Inspections and inspections carried out in accordance with the Health Act will also be more transparent following the adoption of the bill and its implementation, according to the proposaler. The Red Cross of Slovenia is granted the status of a national organisation for the organisation of blood donation actions and enables it to obtain data from a single information centre led by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine and to transmit data to a system that is important for better organisation and development of blood donation in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, supervision and coordination are also provided for with the provision on cooperation of other organisers of blood-stress actions with the Red Cross. In this way, in our view, it is a properly defined national institution and an organiser of blood donation actions, established control and responsibility. The draft law also takes into account the concern expressed by the Red Cross of Slovenia in his comments to the law when it pointed out the insufficiently defined responsibility and control for the way in which blood is collected and provided with self-sustainment. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u256	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the problem of the blood supply law presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will also support it. Millions of people around the world owe their lives to individuals who will never meet them, people who have donated their blood without expecting any return. The importance of blood supply increased when the occurrence of new blood-borne diseases highlighted the importance of safe and high-quality blood transfusions. The existing legislation on blood supply in Slovenia is already comparable to developed countries and needs to be adapted to changes in the EU acquis, which is the most important reason for the adoption of a new law. Members of the parliamentary group are aware of the importance of the principle of self-sufficiency, which is incorporated into the proposal for a law, ensuring that there are so many blood donors that it will effectively meet the needs of blood health in the new socio-economic and social and health conditions. We stress that, on the basis of selected blood, within one nation, it is possible to provide significantly greater security in this area. Of course, support for the wider social community is also needed. Indeed, volunteering, free of charge and anonymity have already shown a good basis in the past for the supply of blood, so in the parliamentary group we consider as a positive solution for the proposer that he has incorporated these principles into the proposal for a new law. We are confident that the Red Cross of Slovenia, as the national organizer of the blood donation actions, will continue to successfully organise such actions and carry out other tasks related to the information, education and training of the population for the provision of first aid and for proper action in the event of natural and other disasters. However, we are not sure if it is good that such actions can be carried out by other organisers, although under prescribed and fulfilled conditions and with adequate supervision, which will be increasingly difficult if the organisers are more. On the other hand, the proposed solutions raise questions about the existing blood collection system, which has been successfully implemented for many years or decades by the Red Cross of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the area of blood supply will also be based on the principles of solidarity and humanity in the future, enabling the proposed law, since the latter certainly constitutes the basis for a high level of quality and security of blood supply in our country. On the basis of this, our parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u258	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us the third treatment of this extremely important blood supply law. To be able to deal with such a law with such content, we are certainly again obliged to thank, first of all, all voluntary blooddressers and blooddressers in Slovenia who are unselfishly contributing to this important life’s fluid. We have already tried to amend the law in both cases with some amendments, including the original text, so today, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have a text that is good, which is transparent, and in particular includes those provisions that are required by both the standards laid down by the European Commission and the profession itself. The way this law now introduces in the possibility of organising blood-stress actions allows us to have now or even more opportunities to organise blood-stretching actions in different ways, and to carry out withdrawals only in professionally qualified institutions. All solutions are good in our conviction, and we will also support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Finally, I would just like to add an explanation that, in previous proceedings and also after these proceedings, he is trying to represent the role of the Red Cross of Slovenia, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is still a national organiser of this and will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Genius, would you please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u260	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u261	Procedurally. Just a moment, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you very much. In the context of the procedure, it must be said that, at the time of each speaker's appearance, it means that greeting the minister and the government representatives is a perfectly normal procedure. In this respect, I apologize for not doing this at my performance. That is why I am now expressing my respect for the Minister and government representatives, and I once again apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much, mag. Gnyardsich. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u264	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies, colleagues and colleagues! In presenting the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to draw attention once again to the role and importance of bleeding in Slovenia. Bleeding is one of the widest organised actions in Slovenia, which, among other things, ensure a high level and smooth functioning of health care. We can be proud that Slovenia, with 5% of its blood donors, fully covers its blood needs and Slovenian blood supply enjoys a great reputation in Europe. The ageing population and the changed social situation have increased the need for blood, and the acquisition of new blood donors has become increasingly difficult. Large credits for the self-sustainment of blood bear the main organizer of the blood supply in Slovenia - Red Cross organization with 56 regional associations, which, together with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine and Transfusion Services in Slovenia, participate in ensuring the smooth supply of the health system with safe blood. We are therefore still convinced that the weakness of the law is that it does not define the central role of the Red Cross as the organiser of the blood supply. We can only hope that this summer's difficulties in providing sufficient blood supply in hospitals will not become practice due to poor solutions in the proposed law. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we point out that there is still no comprehensive and accurate organisation of the implementation of the blood supply. More attention should be paid to information and benefits in the field of insurance or access to health services and the database and the information system should be regulated. Already in the discussion at the home work body and at the meeting of the assembly at the first and second reading of the bill, we have highlighted the key issues that we can say that we still feel as though we are still being completely unconceived. For we believe that the existing conditions and traditions should be preserved and that the status should be regulated for both blood donors and organisers, who would pursue the objectives of voluntary, anonymous and free bleeding. With appropriate active mechanisms, the State should ensure that the individual’s awareness of the importance of blood supply is strengthened, since we believe that bloodletting should become part of the social consciousness, while at the same time the carriers would be given appropriate social effect. Despite the fact that the law is likely to be adopted today, there are still a number of open issues, including: What will be the entire transfusional activity network in Slovenia? What is the vision of the Ministry of Health of the entire network? How will current blood collection and testing activities work, and what will the changes in the present law mean for existing capacities? In view of the inadequate financial evaluation of the Transfusion Service Reorganisation Programme, the reorganisation of the Transfusion Service has led to a stalemate. Therefore, a clear ministry strategy and answers to open questions would be urgently needed. We also find the financial consequences of the law questionable. The law enforces reorganisation, but we do not know whether this is all about increased red tape when we can follow other health legal proposals. Since we do not find an answer to what will be the new prices of more difficult procedures, there is no known methodology for determining the price of blood and blood products, no known number of blood transfusions and could still be listed. By approving the proposed law, the proposer thus assumes the full responsibility that all conditions for self-sustainment of blood and the smooth functioning of the healthcare system will be ensured in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u266	The President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democrats Group, we are still convinced that there is no need to change the system that works very successfully. And such a system is a reliable Slovenian blood supply. We tabled four amendments for the second hearing of the parent’s working body, but unfortunately they were rejected. The business arrangements allowed us to submit two amendments to the National Assembly for a second reading. With one of them, we wanted to define the term "zero-national blood donor". Although this article explains the importance of individual expressions, such as: hospital blood bank, hospital blood transfusion committee, good clinical practice, serious adverse event, serious adverse reaction, medical examination, blood donor, blood supply, distribution, rejection and so on, a total of 27 terms, for the majority of these national councils, it was not acceptable for us to explain in this article the term 'national blood donation organizer'. Why, we're wondering. Because they would write that the national blooddresser is the Red Cross of Slovenia. National organizer of the blood donation, which is responsible for organising blood-spectrum actions throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time. It gives consent to and coordinates work between other providers of bloodstreaming activities, thus giving its consent. It was probably the key word that was disrupting this amendment. For more than 50 years, the Red Cross of Slovenia has cared about maintaining the principle of self-sufficiency in the supply of blood and blood products. In order for the health system to operate smoothly, we need as many as 400 blood donors per day or 100,000 blood donors per year. And what's very important is that in Slovenia, bleeding has grown into a real solidarity movement based on the largest and most important methods. 56 district associations and nearly a thousand local organisations are organising these blood-supply actions, a total of 317 blood-suppliers field actions. Even in the future, the Red Cross of Slovenia wants to motivate itself and thus to spread bloodguilt with us. They want to create the conditions that will allow healthy, informed, full - time individuals to go to the bloodstream. Of course, they are aware of this, or we are aware that it is still important for the State to provide certain benefits to the blooddressers by means of regulations. But it's already a matter of other laws. Even within the executive committee of the Red Cross of Slovenia, they are concerned about the new law, which is what we are likely to adopt today in the National Assembly. At the meeting of the Executive Committee on 5 September 2006, we were also reminded of this concern by letter. So everything is not just as it suggests or as it claims. The members of the Executive Board unanimously express their deep concern at the inadequacy of the part of the law that speaks of the organiser of blood-striking actions. The concept of the national organiser of blood-traffic actions is inaccurate and does not give the Red Cross of Slovenia a clear mandate to exercise the public authority it has under the Red Cross of Slovenia Act, which it carries out for the benefit of all Slovenian patients for 53 years. Above all, on the basis of such a text, it will not be possible to define responsibility for possible blood shortages, we are warned by representatives of the Red Cross in the letter. They are concerned that the change will lead to serious disturbances in the regular and sufficient organization and motivation of permanent blood donors, and ultimately cause difficulties in providing timely and necessary blood or its products. They warned me, concern is present. And we take this concern into account with the Red Cross in the Group of Social Democrats. When we decide whether to support this law or not, according to the assurances of the proposaler and of course the members of the coalition, we could say that any fear is too much and that the law can be supported. Of course, caution is still necessary here. In the Social Democrats Group of Members, as I said, we do not support an intervention into systems that have been functioning for several years and several decades. As I said, we could even support this law on the basis of the proponents, but because, as I said, we share our concerns with the representatives of the Red Cross, we cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. You're giving up. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the course of the discussions I have already justified my attitude towards the proposal for a law with positions growing from the knowledge that the Red Cross of Slovenia has so far set up exemplary blood-striking actions. In the changed circumstances, however, it is indeed possible to agree to the need to adapt to the legislation that governs the European Union. But it is those signals that come from the European Union and with their effects also affect the relation to blood supply in Slovenia that lead me to caution. Therefore, I do not believe that the established way of organising blood-dividing actions shows any change in the absence of any firm assurance that a greater number of blood-delivery organisers would also have an assurance in the substantial increase in the number of blood-suppliers and in better self-supplied blood supply. I am talking about the fact that those who live in the greater vicinity of Austria also know a different attitude to blood supply and to blood products that are also associated with stimulation, which is not called direct payment for blood supply, but is stimulated by money and then at least in this area by competitive blood collection. I think that occasional, I'll say, fire-fighting actions, when individual exposed groups of citizens and citizens appear as potential blood donors once in a lifetime to influence people, cannot replace the loss of regular blood donors. I have met several times at a blood transfusion station with people who were called as regular blood donors because there was not enough blood in the blood type at that time and they were asked to come, as well as new blood donors, stressing that the inability to get a day off or difficulties in exercising this right are reducing the number of blood donors. I think we should insist that between the 27 concepts, the concept of a national blooddresser is also explained, because insistence on not being recorded shows exactly where the dog is praying. I cannot support this bill alone, but I have warned me of the dangers that threaten our blood supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. You're giving up. Thus, the list of all the panellists is exhausted. The government also gives up the word. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. I understand that only Mr Joseph Školč has signed up for the word. Mr. Skull has the floor. Since we are so kind, I would not interrupt the meeting for five or ten minutes to wait for Mr Školč, but I will continue with the meeting, hopefully for the last time with this. I note that no one has joined the debate, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, which is at 17.25. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at the scheduled hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u270	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly and are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I'd ask you nicely if you'd calm down. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. At the same time, I would like to explain to you in a short time only how to vote in this new way, as we have done, which was considered a debate on the amendments. This is also true now for explanations of vote, either on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf. Please, at each point where we decide, first, if there is an explanation, there will be a first explanation for the vote of the Group, then an explanation of the vote of each individual. Because we will also use the screen to classify Members who would like to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members or on their behalf, please be careful, because there will be no repetition. Then it is not possible for me to explain this again. The first round is only on behalf of the Group of Members. The second round is no longer possible on behalf of the Group of Members. That's clear. I think if we're careful and you cooperate, we'll get into this right away. We have agreed that, before each vote, the Chair will look at the Chamber as before and, if he finds that someone would like to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members or in his own, then only include the Reporting Machine. Otherwise, the vote goes on. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matey Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Matey Lahovnik, on the implementation of wage policy in the economy and the economy. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Three Members of Parliament have applied. The first shall have the word of Mr Sašo Pecé on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. Members of the Slovenian National Party will support the proposal. The fact is that this came to a different answer to the same question yesterday during the reply to Mr Lahovnik's question. However, I would like to say that we also put the same question in writing to the Members of the National Party a good month ago. In its reply, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claimed that payments or, more broadly, payments and meetings did not increase anywhere in those companies where the State has such or different control or majority or minority share that no such anomalies, as stated by its colleague Lahovnik yesterday, occur. This address mainly concerns the credibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in a month changes its response so much we would like to discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, or better said than another argument, we point out in the National Party that we are concerned about the greed of individual government representatives who, at least after the information from yesterday, have grown rich within our country. We estimate that it makes sense to launch such a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew Lachovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe that the coalition Members will support the opportunity to discuss the Prime Minister's response primarily because this way he will have the opportunity to answer questions he did not want to answer yesterday. This is justified by the following fact. First time. It is clear that in Luka Koper, meetings have increased by more than four times, from 8 to over 30 million tolars. Clearly, the President of the Supervisory Board, Luke Koper, is the Secretary of State in the Government of Mr Janez Janša, it is clear that the insurance company Triglav is a state insurance company, it is clear that the President of the Supervisory Board of this same state insurance company has a flat rate of 580 thousand tolars per month, plus receiving 156 thousand tolars of meetings for each meeting, although there is no employment in this insurance company at all, and it is clear that there is a similar situation in the other companies if I mention only the case of Inter-European, so I propose that a discussion be held on the failure of the Prime Minister to answer my question, which is justified by the following four reasons. First time. In the last two years, the government has been scrambling across a number of supervisory councils and administrations according to the political criteria of its political representatives, particularly the SDS. Another time. She then sent these overseers to school because they did not have the necessary knowledge at the expense of the taxpayers, not at their own expense. Third time. In the next phase, it increased the prizes to these supervisors by up to four times, so that some State secretaries sitting in three supervisory councils can earn an additional salary in addition to the national salary, and they are among the best paid citizens in that country. And the fourth time. With tax reform, they were further burdened, as I pointed out in the case of the Petrol Prime Minister, who will probably have up to 90 million tolls per year, the state will give him an additional 5.2 million tolars per year, one of which is a very solid car. The Prime Minister did not respond. He talked about the fact that the state has no influence in these companies, which is funny if we know that the insurance company Triglav is owned by the state if we know that Luke Koper is the State Secretary in his government. He said it wasn't pay, it wasn't pay policy. Do you know if a secretary of state in the government of Mr Janša still earns 10 million or 15 million tolars, I think it's a hoax if the Prime Minister speaks here, if that's not what he's paying. It is the prize, the rewards are, and I ask that we discuss this, so that the Prime Minister will also be able to finally respond correctly, because he did not want to yesterday, he was unable to respond. Therefore, let this be possible, so please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u274	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I allow the possibility that colleague Lahovnik was misled by the data yesterday, although I doubt it, I would rather say he misproceeded them. However, it is very unhygienic and unfair for the Prime Minister to be asked one question, or the question of pay policy, which concerns something completely different, which was then publicly raised at the meeting. And there was no way to answer that. I am also firmly convinced that the LDS Members will not press the 'yes' button in this case, because they themselves have repeatedly said that this country did not start on 3 December 2004, but rather substantially earlier. And if we start digging into the salaries of supervisors and everything else that's happened in the period under your rule, we'll come up with very, very interesting conclusions that I don't think we need to re-publish them in this mandate. The country really didn't start on 3.12.2004. You yourself know what and how you did in these companies, where the country had such or different influences. Let me mention only the casino Portorož, where former supervisors led by Mrs Kandutti have the same meetings as they now have, but significantly higher awards, and a number of different trips where they studied casinos around the world. Let me mention Emma Obala, where you used a lobbyist who then became your executive director not through board meetings, but through some consulting contracts you have exhausted amounts of over three million per month and reached an annex amount of 250,000 DEM to keep Emona Obala a little longer on these duty-free points. These are questions relating to the past but also to the present. In all the companies mentioned, the amounts received by supervisors, presidents and board members may be verifiable. In most companies, the situation has already settled, the situation you have left behind. However, the government has no direct impact on the setting of prizes or meetings, but this is a matter for business assemblies. Where it is owned by a minority of certain payments, to the extent that it is the will of the majority, it cannot be prevented. However, in all the cases mentioned above, it is not the amounts as mentioned above, but the amounts that are comparable to those of previous periods and are not the amounts that speak of 80 million or more, as stated by Mr. Lahovnik, who is the same gentleman that I spoke about earlier in Finance years - here I have members - said when he said that the condition for being Minister of LDS is that you know three letters, L plus D plus S then said that the condition for you is only one S with two vertical lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much. This was the last explanation for the vote in the parliamentary groups, although this explanation was rather controversial and was not a valid explanation for the vote. We have thus concluded the explanations of the groups of Members. We continue to report individuals. Eight reported. Here you go, please. Mr. Squeakle, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u277	Mr President, I would seriously ask the professional services to explain the algorithm of reporting, even if you apply in the last second. That's it. Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u278	That's good. Thank you very much. I'll give you an answer. To college.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u279	Can I explain three minutes for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u280	That's all I want to say before we go any further. The College of the President of the National Assembly agreed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on how we will vote. And it also explains exactly what these lists will look like and how it is sorted that the computer actually sorts itself in some order. That's how it was accepted. No one resisted that, so they wouldn't accept it. This was the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Squeakle, allow us to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u281	Look, the chairman. We can take a look at today's computer records. No matter when we report to the Members of the Liberal Democracy, at least my trifle, whether I sign up at the beginning of ten seconds or at the end, at nine seconds, what I did. Now there's a name in the beginning. I'm withdrawing my application and applying in the next round.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. The first is for explanations of vote, Mr Matej Lahovnik. Please. Please, procedurally, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I ask that the professional services of Mr Cwickle be explained that he is an anarchist who is abusing the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u284	Mr. Lakhovnik, you have the floor, please. And I ask you to follow the way we did in college and the way the list is on the screen or the way you see it. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u285	Your Honor! On my personal behalf, I propose a debate on the response of the Prime Minister. Once again, I was talking about companies where the country has a decisive influence. Everything else is a hoax. To say that the insurance company Triglav State, Republic of Slovenia, has no influence is, of course, ridiculous because it is owned by state or parastatal institutions. I was also talking about the Telekom case, where the director has over 40 million tolars of salary at the annual level. I have also talked about some other cases, such as Luke Koper, which you can say anything about, but on the head of the Supervisory Board is the Secretary of State, a prominent political official of this government. And the empirical fact is - honourable Members and Members - that the prizes to the supervisors in this mandate, the mandate of the government of Mr Janez Janša, have increased by almost four times. If, before Mr Janš's term in Luka Koper, there were about 8 million tolars, they now amount to more than 30 million tolars. These are the facts, these are the numbers. Everything else is, you know, a lot of political demagogies. And the fact is when we open up additional companies, which is good, say, Casino Portorož. I am very pleased that Mrs Benedetti, the head of the State Protocol, is a member of the SDS, Vice-President of the Supervisory Board. Her husband is employed in this job, Uncle. The Director, for example, Mr Mohorčič, is also a prominent SDS representative. From this point of view, I think the debate will be very interesting. And I really thank those of you who reminded me of Casino Portorož. If there's a conflict of interest, it's there. How can the Vice-President of the Supervisory Board, Mrs Benedetti, head of the State Protocol, member of the SDS, supervise her family relatives, everything, I suppose, sympathizers of the SDS!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u286	Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you very much. There are two simple reasons why I will support this debate. One thing is that Mr President of the Government, like Mr Tsukati, I am deeply sorry, because in the minutes that have been asked within the institution of the questions sent to him, he cannot answer all these questions. I think you'll let him explain these things. Secondly, it seems worth telling me that if we take 3.12. for some important milestone that changes all customs in this country, as was quoted, it is certain that it did not start with 3.12. However, it is certainly not the end of the 3.12. time when someone in the government might have wondered what he was doing. Colleagues from the SDS would like it to be the 3.12. happy day that proclaims the end of history when everything is fine and all is fine and all right and there is nothing left to ask about. 3.12. is, as you say, a new step in the boom of democracy in Slovenia. And within that, it seems to me that the debate is the one that gives the crown to your gardening in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u288	Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, be pleased to support my colleague Lahovnik's proposal to open a debate on this parliamentary question and the response of the Prime Minister to it. I am pleased that I believe that this will be one of the points that will be voted together, both by the LDS and others, and above all by the SDS, because I am convinced that they are the ones most likely to be most interested in giving the right answers and, above all, to clarify certain things. While colleagues on this point, which will be voted on, will be cleaning up last year's snow, we will look at what has been imposed on you in these two years and on what basis. And this foundation, ladies and gentlemen, is not good. Matthew has already mentioned some companies, the Post Office of Slovenia 100% state ownership. Look, these fees before 2004, and look at them today. 100% state property, Telekom Slovenije. I am not talking about companies where the country has a minority or a share, but about companies where it has a decisive and dominant influence. I think it's right that we have this debate because I think we've been having some sort of mental phenomenon lately, which is very interesting. In fact, what it is -- they just started to believe at some point in time what you've been reading to the LDS. In short, this was first seen as an obvious observation. Now you've started to believe it, and because you believe, you've also started to work, just like LDS has never actually worked, if you understand. You're prisoners of your own illusions. And this illusion will manifest itself and reveal itself when we consider this point. I believe we're all going to accept it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u290	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. Of course, he applied the algorithm so that all of us who are now speaking will support the proposal of our colleague Lakhovnik, and then you will come to him that you will not. I will support him myself, because I think after two years and a few months or almost two years, it is time for the Prime Minister, even though just before the local elections, to allow him to show all his knowledge that he can and is finally allowed to debate in this national assembly. I believe that you will also allow his Members to do so. Someone said something was wrong. It is unfair that for two years, questions have been answered with questions from the Members, and it is unfair that after two years of government, someone is still citing a past of the previous government. If something could not be changed in two years, then something is very wrong with this government and with this ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u292	Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this proposal alone for a few reasons. First, the appointment of supervisors takes place in the same way, on the basis of the same legal bases that you put together twelve times. In this case, it's a vision error, because if that were to happen and you were to continue the government, then that would be fine. But since your vision didn't work out, now it's a problem. The other thing is, the changes that are happening have brought some positive results. Last but not least, the stock market index is growing, we have big economic growth, we have the euro and so on. In short, these things are positive. As far as the evidence of political recruitment is concerned, I do not think that this thesis is true, because my colleague on the extreme second edge is the first to publicly acknowledge that he has been employed fairly in the largest Slovenian company Mercator. This gentleman is now an independent candidate who has politically recruited the mayor of Ljubljana and on his scale, the entire LDS package of saints and, of course, former Members, are all independent. And then don't talk about some policies, but about abuse of some stuff. And I think it is very right for you to also separate in your deliberations between what are the obligations and competences of the Government and between what other authorities are doing, either the Assembly or the Supervisory Body and the Supervisory Board and so on. I don't think it's in the interest of the citizens, not the state, to interfere and to make a nuisance out of it just to make a spectacle. Mr. Lakhovnik knows these things very well. He even doctored from a similar material. I think it's very unrealistic that in the way he gave this material in terms of staffing, in terms of setting rewards and other things, this is an abuse issue. And last but not least, the most beautiful example of your recruitment is the President of the Housing Fund Supervisory Board, Mr Kopač, where this is not about commissions, it is not about the awards, but about the abuses that have taken place in this mandate, and it is about the billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u294	Mr. Bell Blackach has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u295	Mr Lahovnik, colleague of Lahovnik yesterday thus began his question: "Dear Prime Minister, I am interested in how has wage policy been implemented in the last two years?" This was an introduction to his Member's question, and only this sentence was corrected in order to implement it and as the Rules of Procedure. Everything else was, as we keep listening, an abuse of rules of procedure and rules of conduct in this national assembly. And then the crowds, the hints, the numbers that don't hold, and so on. However, I thank him too for mentioning Intereuropa. The five-member board used to be. It's three-member now. They have the same salary as before, and now calculate how much money they make in this company. Let's move on to Casino was mentioned, Casino Portorož. Previously, they had a CEO and a member of Bevce - Bizjak, and I don't know if these two were in trouble with the SDS or with any of their members, even Kanduti's would say no. I think she's been sitting somewhere in the ranks of your client for a long time. Four million gross. Now the CEO has half the salary, two million gross. These facts are verifiable. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to discuss in this national assembly. We can talk about macroeconomic effects, whether these companies are well-governed or not, whether they have saved the funds that have been used for many years to throw large arms through the window for various sponsorships, etc., or whether they have reduced a number of individual contracts, which have also been "supplied" in addition to these rare members and CEOs. If you have already mentioned Petrol, you know that there has been rationalisation there, which also has direct financial implications for the business. The same is true of Triglav and elsewhere. We can talk about this, but I am afraid that we will not have a real interlocutor in this national assembly in this mandate. It will probably be necessary to wait for a different composition so that we can talk about it competently and that local elections will pass. So, I'm sorry. I think the darkness was chosen wrong at the wrong time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u296	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you very much. I also agree that we often do not have quality interlocutors, especially by the government, when they come to answer questions from Members of Parliament. I also agree here with the coalition MP. The data I heard from my colleague Lahovnik yesterday are certainly worrying, and an even more worrying response from the Prime Minister. He was like this in the first part. So, for the first time in all market economies and Slovenia is a market economy, members of corporate administrations and especially large ones earn more than workers working for running lanes. If someone doesn't like this system, he can look at someone else, he can look into history. We had a system like this in our house, and it didn't get us far. He spoke in a 1976 debate, probably knowing her well, and he was involved with them at the time. Nothing would be wrong with these differences, but these differences are growing with us. In the past few years, some of us have been emboldened and still emboldened. Some of these are much more, but they have ended up at the Employment Service or not with new legislation, we also delete them from unemployment records and send them from the Employment Service to the Social Security Institute. More to my decision to support the proposal for a debate, I was actually encouraged by a coalition Member who says, "You know, you have acted just as well as I do now." I'm just curious. Mr. Vice President, please calm down, Mr. Rupar. Anyway, he's hard to calm down, but please. Above all, seeing what has happened in the past and what is happening today leads me to support this proposal for a debate on the Prime Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The list of all applicants is exhausted. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Check-in is on. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I have no problem accepting the fact that I was first on the list. I will not support Mr Lahovnik's proposal, because I have received the answer that was raised in the question put by the Prime Minister in the House. Now, if a fellow Member was sitting in his ears at the time and he didn't listen to the answer, then that's his problem. I don't think that's the problem with the entire national council. It is true, however, that the Member who raised the question misused the Rules of Procedure and asked orally something that he did not ask as a question in writing in advance, which was a matter of business rules. It is normal that at that time, the Prime Minister could not state the specific figures that the Member asked for. But I do not see any problem with the fact that these particulars, which are not actually the same as they were raised in the question, are also made public. I believe that those concerned will do the same. But I don't know what to discuss with the National Assembly, about the data. Well, if it's about what the data is, whether they're like that or different, it's best to show and see that data. What do we want to discuss? They just need to be shown. I believe this will happen. Therefore, of course, such a proposal, which is completely pointless, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u300	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to warn you that one of the first Slovenian wage affaires happened to Dr. Arhar when, as director of the Mutual, this is a state insurance company, he came into the situation that the Slovenian public did not want to disclose his wages. That is why he also burned in the presidential elections, and this same Dr. Arhar is an independent candidate for the mayor of Ljubljana, supported by all the coalition nomenclature, which also gathered yesterday and publicly supported him. However, I would like to point out that the electoral headquarters of Mr Arhar, an independent candidate supported by SDS, SLS and NSI is led by Dr Stane Grand, an independent expert who runs the programme council of Radiotelevision Slovenia and who has committed himself to acting in a non-political manner. Where's the non-politicality here? And I would like in this debate, when we talk about salaries, to talk about people, what kind of staff they're sitting on and who you're putting in leading positions. Drava power plants were taken over in Maribor by a car salesman who has never heard of electricity. The State Audit Board is run by a man who has never seen an audit report before but who has dealt with car insurance. He was also recruited by the Maribor nomenclature. Intereuropo is chaired by SDS member Lovshin, under the supervision of Rigel, also a member of the SDS. Holding Slovenian power plants is run by a former minister, a member of the SDS Zagozhen, even controlled by a minister of SDS species, Mr Vizjak. Enough to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr Squeakl has the floor for explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u303	Mr Janša said yesterday in the debate that the dilemma, the debate, reminds him of 1976. It is true that what we are doing at the time of Mr Janša's rule is the same thing that started in the 1970s, you owe the country a great deal, for 1,100 billion is issued either guarantees or directly assumed debts. Today, we will continue for 68 billion two months before the end of the year to repair the scope of the guarantees so that Luka Koper, along with the Slovenian Railways, can do something not to be bypassed by the fifth corridor. And during this time, during the summer, you have also greatly increased the awards to your supervisors, Triglav, Luka Koper, Petrol. I agree with those who say that wage policy and other macroeconomic policies, in particular debt policy, should be discussed. It would also be good to ask why you set up an apparage in these companies. Petrol’s supervisors are directly responsible for ensuring that Petrol works well for all shareholders. And I believe it was necessary to pay them very well to support the formation of some kind of holding company that would lead Petrol's value far eastward. Well, it's not like he talked to any other president of the state about this. I am in favour of supporting the decision to discuss pay policy, debt policy, and to do so before you take away 100,000 in Slovenia through tax reform and give the small group 35 billion. And when you reject today's minimum wage amendment, ask yourself what you're actually burdening those who have the least, and all this to set someone up. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u304	Thank you. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u305	Thank you. It was obvious that the secretaries, and I don't know who else are sitting on the boards of oversight and administration, which, of course, I think, is what I heard earlier. But one simple question, Mr. Ambassador. When you're first [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I didn't mention any. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] No, I didn't say his name. When you teach in colleges whose tuition and studies are so expensive that a lot of people can't, free or not at all as Members, when you're sitting here for a payday and not for fees that are 10, 15, 20 million a year, then you'll also be able to report to any secretary to sit on any supervisory and administrative board. Be transparent! And the mayors, out with the mayors, that's right! [[A laugh in the hall.]] Yeah, I totally agree. Once you're under your threshold, we'll start making order. The most transparent in this country is definitely Jankovic. He said, "I've got 8, 9 billion, I've got them in a short time, and so do my sons, how many hidden ones I have, and you don't care" - the most transparent. And the poorest member of the LDS, former president, Mr Drnovšek, 760 million, by the eighth month, and then he's the boss. The most transparent, the most cost-effective! Then you hope to tell the government or anyone that there is no pay policy! At your doorstep, sweep from the president of the state down to Mr. Jankovic. It's gonna be just like it's gonna be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Uhanova, too. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. So, we've heard a lot of things about what happened in these two years, and on what basis, what happened. State secretaries who serve beautifully are supposed to have a dominant influence. I hope they're doing what was said that LDS never did. I agree, they never do what LDS does. And what has been imposed in these two years? After two years, the economy is growing at a 5% annual rate, not for a long time. Lowest inflation, not for a long time. Healthy state finances, despite the fact that you claimed that the pension rise would cause the financial system to fall apart, are not true. The economy has become strained and taxes are not growing. During the SDS period, we have reached the only condition for the euro and had a financial minister of the year. In addition, in Slovenia, fertility, suicidalness is declining, public debt has fallen from 3% to 1.8%, and companies mentioned are making more profits and much higher growth. Maybe you remembered something. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] At the beginning of your term, you argued that if the right hand wins, the sun will cease to rise. [[...]] It's not. The results are excellent 5% economic growth. On the contrary, you're even trying to find some other stuff. See if now maybe that means that if we add another State Secretary to a supervisor to some company, we wouldn't have just 5%, but 8%. Gentlemen also ask yourself this, the stock index is growing and in fact we are doing much, much better. This means that it is a good way to work, and it is even more successful. And that this right coalition is excellent because the results of Slovenia have never been as good as they are now. This has been imposed, gentlemen, in these two years. Thank you. I won't vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u308	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as we have it, allow for the limitations set out in this Rules of Procedure. Those of you who were here in the previous term will remember that, as a member of the opposition at the time, I objected to such a rule of procedure and I have always felt better that the Rules of Procedure are more open and give Members more opportunities and, of course, also representatives of the government. I'm afraid he's just like he is. The capacity of Members is now very limited, however, you can write the question of the Member in concrete, exact terms. I believe that there will also be an exact and concrete response. However, as regards some of the impossibility that could and should have taken place in the National Assembly, I would only remind you of the year 2000 when Members of the then ruling coalition prevented, even though, in accordance with the law on investigative commissions, they should have considered the report of the investigative commission and, by voting and voting, the report of the investigative commission was withdrawn from the debate of the agenda, although this was the last meeting. However, it might also be necessary to speak a little wider about Mr Jankovic and Mercator, how he could have harmed so many Slovenian workers and workers working in Mercator in such a short time, but of course he himself is enormously rich, and now he spends his floscules and slogans in Slovenia. I hope no one will fall for him this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u311	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Now we've talked about everything else. I would soon forget, in fact, that I must say that I will support my colleague Lachovnik's proposal mainly because this debate has also shown that there is still a lot to be said. I don't really understand all the readings we've heard, but I do know that, say, Mercator, the stock was initially worth 3,800 tolars and that when Jankovic left, it was worth 40,000 tolars. I don't know what kind of damage the company is doing, but obviously its value has grown very, very much at this time. As I recall, Mercator was there at the beginning of the 1990s, but there was a group of shops that threatened them more to fail than to grow. It must also be some positive credit to Mr Jankovic. Let's drop it. For 15 years, the apple has grown, and the one who inherited it is now happy to rob it. Now the question is, How much credit does this tree have to be the way it is? Mr Janša, of course, would like to answer all these questions very much. I can see that there are also many lawyers who have given up on some of them. But just for these things to be cleaned up and cleaned up and to say that we're just "inflaming" here, it would be good to have a debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u312	Thank you. Any other interests? It's not. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to hold a debate, although in fact we have already completed the debate, however. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[He voted in favour of 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Bojan Kontić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the parliamentary question of Bojan Kontic concerning the privatisation of the electricity economy." Anybody? An explanation of the voice? Please report to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for explanations of vote. Mr. Krivec, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u313	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we also share the concerns expressed through Mr Kontic's question about the privatisation of electricity and the situation on our market. However, our view is that the Prime Minister, through the answer to the question to a sufficient extent, has answered and that the written answer should also be sufficient to clarify this question that has been raised. In our thinking, we follow the direction set by the government that the government or the state withdraws from the economy. This is also necessary in the case of electricity. We are also looking for strategic partners, which makes sense to strengthen our electricity companies. So that we will not support the proposal for an extended hearing in our Group of Members. Because these discussions must take place at the professional level. I think that these discussions are already taking place in the electricity industry, both in the holding industry and in the assemblage of the electricity industry, and even when the results are known, they will come to our bench. That's when we'll decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr Kontić has the floor on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is logical for the Group of Social Democrats to support the proposed decision on the debate. The energy system is like an ocean ship. Once you're changing course, it's very hard to turn it back. The reorganization of the Holding has been announced. In doing so, we want representatives of employees to participate in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, to revive the Economic and Social Committee within energy, and to agree on this Committee, binding both on the Holding and on the Owner, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Foreign strategic partners, yes or no to Slovenian electricity. According to some experts within the energy system Slovenia or the Slovenian electricity industry does not need strategic partners for domestic investment. Perhaps these partners would be welcome when our electricity is being used in foreign markets. Therefore, further reflection is also needed here. There are many open questions to which there is no answer at this time. Nor did the Prime Minister answer all the questions, nor was he able to answer in such a short time, because energy, energy policy deserves much more than the opportunity to answer the Prime Minister in eight minutes. I am sure that the Prime Minister in this area would have more to say to us. The Prime Minister also replied that if there is no change, jobs will be threatened. We believe that jobs can be threatened or threatened mainly by changes. The energy system has worked well in the past and is still functioning today. We share concern with employees who fear the privatisation of electricity, who also fight for jobs, because of quality jobs. In the past, mining jobs, which, for example, are better paid than the others they have today, when we have done some kind of restructuring. So we get less paid jobs and that's why people, employees, fear. We want you to [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] As I said, employees can participate in decisions. Above all, we would like you to support today's decision on an additional debate on the Prime Minister's response, as this will allow for a quality debate within [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Slovenian electricity industry is definitely ahead of major challenges. The fact is that a national government resolution can also find the construction of a 6th block, such as a Scottish thermal power plant. However, some of the Minister of Economy's forecasts, which state that it is imperative to engage a foreign partner to build this bloc, are of concern. The question is what is the point of a foreign partner entering the ownership structure of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding in such a way as to supply equipment to the Šostanj thermal power plant and thus co-finance this project. This question is asked for the first time because the State Holding of Slovenian Power Plants has an annual profit of around €60 million and is easily financed by such an investment, taking into account the entire free cash flow of the State Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. Secondly, this same Holding of Slovenian Power Plants invests heavily in the countries of the former Yugoslavia in building energy capacities. And thirdly, I find it illogical to allow foreigners to earn twice, for the first time through the supply of equipment for the construction of the 6th block of the Šostanja thermoelectric power plant and the second time to enter the ownership structure of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants and thus gain the right to rent brought by the Drava River because it also becomes the indirect owner of Drava power plants via the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. These are very important issues, not only for the development of Slovenian energy, but for the development of the Slovenian economy. Of course, the question of why Holding Slovenian Power Plants is being broken is to be raised. The fact is that the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plants is the Minister of Economy. This same Minister of Economy is supposed to take care of competition in the electricity production and sales market in Slovenia. On the one hand, the President of the Supervisory Board of an undertaking with more than 90 % ownership share should, on the other hand, take care of competition. And since it has taken on a conflict role at the beginning, it is now seeking to break down the state holding company on two state-owned companies, as if there would be more competition in this way. [[A warning sign for the end of the deployment.]] It will not be, but the costs of developing Slovenian energy will be significantly higher. It is therefore right that we actually discuss these issues here, because the Prime Minister has indeed not given any answer to the question raised by his fellow Member. And now you have all the Members and Members of Parliament to support this. We will, of course, support the debate on this issue in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u318	Thank you. I'm opening applications for reasons on my personal behalf. Mr. Hwauc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u319	Thank you very much. I certainly understand the sincere concerns of those who are concerned about the future of employees anywhere. However, I think there are other things here, on the one hand, we are listening to the demands that the state, I don't know, if you want, if you want to, so listen to this, withdraws from business and, on the other hand, as soon as a model of privatisation appears, everything is wrong, and then we take care of employees, for competitiveness, for costs, rationality and so on. So let's just get some clean wine in here. If we are talking about Holding of Slovenian power plants and in this first pillar, which will remain, we need to be clear and loud. The thermal power plant in Šostanje is amortised, it requires thorough renovations, the cost of energy production is much higher than anywhere else or not anywhere else, but, say, in Drava power plants. Sokska power plant, the price of produced energy is almost 30% higher than in Drava power plants, which are also thoroughly renovated and practically nothing has to be invested in the next 30, 40 years. And if we choose to privatise by individual companies, then let's ask ourselves what kind of security we'll provide for workers at the Shoštanj thermal power plant or maybe in the Soc Power Plants, which is uncompetitive and produces too expensive electricity. That is why I think that the model proposed here to bring this together is certainly the safest and most convenient way for employees. Thank you very much. Of course, Holding Slovenian power plants could easily finance the reconstruction or construction of the sixth block in the Šostanj power plant. Of course, let's just ask ourselves where that profit came from. Most of it was created in the Drava Power Plants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u321	In my name, I want to explain why the debate is essential because, as I said, the Holding Group of Slovenian Power Plants actually generates over €60 million in profits. Minister Bajuk prevented the financing of the construction or prevented some of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding's development plans from building the sixth block because he kept some of the profits in the state budget. In short, it draws profit from Holding of Slovenian Power Plants into the budget and, of course, it is necessary to know that Holding of Slovenian Power Plants invests in the Ugljevik thermal power plant in the Republika Srpska area and thus acquires additional energy capacity there, which is very good at the starting point because there is a lack of electricity in the European Union. It is, of course, completely illogical that it does not fund this investment even the sixth block of the Šostjanje thermal power plant, because it simply has sufficient resources and does not therefore need to attract a foreigner into the ownership structure and thus enable him to rent, to produce a rent that is also generated in the Drava power plants, including in the power plants on the lower Sava and elsewhere. In short, there is absolutely no logical concept, I don't know why the state holding company is now breaking into two parts to get two state-owned companies. Unless it's a matter of other interests. That's bad. I think it is also bad that the President of the Supervisory Board is the Minister of Economy, this has never happened before, and we now have this paradox, which has already been discussed, that the current Minister of Economy is overseeing the former Minister of Economy, who is both members of the SDS and can argue here and play in the field of energy as in the sandstone, but this is not good for the development of Slovenian energy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u323	I am very pleased that some among us know so in detail the program of privatisation of Slovenian power plants or holding companies. As I am aware, this was one of the 120 points from the last July meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and even the Minister and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Holding felt the need to harmonise some of the key details of this privatisation programme through newspapers. And what Mr Kontič has proposed is nothing more than an eminent discussion of the National Assembly. Under the legislation, the National Assembly sets out what are the objectives of privatising individual assets. And the Prime Minister, in response to Mr Kontic, said that it was not as if the coalition had met a day before that government meeting and had already confirmed that there would be no doubt Eles Gen would be anyone else in the second holding, in the second pillar, and I do not know who in the first pillar. Privatisations are usually discussed in national assemblies by clarifying what is the goal of privatisation, which is the method and or method of privatisation ensures that the objective is also achieved. But the goal is not clear. Privatisation is not usually necessary when profits are made, but Mr Finance Minister Bajuk has decided to collect all profits into the state budget, hydropower profits, holding profits, Telekom profits and others. And privatisation is needed when there are no domestic resources, but domestic resources exist, unless there is a whole story where we sell with Petrol, I don't know which part of the European Union or Eastern Europe still has key infrastructure facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. And energy will be one of the key issues. We, or you, the energy company of Slovenia and the holding companies here, intend to put in foreign hands and we must discuss this in the National Assembly. I therefore support the proposal to support Mr Kontic's procedural decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u325	Thank you very much. I will support my colleague Kontić's proposal, and the very debate of the various Members and Members speaks of the fact that we have different information in the area of the privatisation of the energy system, different views that a number of personnel changes have occurred in the recent period, both in holding and in individual companies, and that the creation of a second pillar is forecast at the holding of the Slovenian Power Plants, and also privatisation. Of course, as we monitor investments in the Sava plant chain today, we can see that it is invested from two sources and in two parts, one so-called energy part and the other so-called infrastructure-environmental part. And we who live along the Drava River must say that we have a built chain of Drava Power Plants, which have experienced a major reconstruction in recent times and are actually operating in a very good condition. Of course, the question is whether the people who live there are willing to accept every way of privatisation, given that regulating the Drava River flow by building power plants affects the lives of all those who live there. And if we say from the moment Drava enters the Republic of Slovenia and until Drava leaves the border with the Republic of Slovenia. It is very important that people have clear ideas, because we know that Drava power plants are the main winners within the holding of Slovenian power plants. Interestingly, we should have clear answers as to whether Drava’s rent within the Drava Power Plants will also belong to people living in this environment. They live to make use of this for the development of Slovenia, but not to make it possible for this rent to happen, these profits can go from the Slovenian space to any other place. For this reason, I think it makes sense that from a variety of perspectives, from the different states of the electricity system in individual segments, we will hold this debate and get completely clear information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u326	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, my friend! I myself will support the debate in this case for purely principled reasons. In the last year, I have been asked a serious question whether the coalition even accepts the debate, the speech and the confrontation of opinions, something that is a transparent decision in the National Assembly. We are increasingly witnessing situations where there is no question of the answer, when, in fact, coalition Members are silent on various topics, and neither are they taking decisions, etc. In short, we are in a situation where only one side is actually speaking in Parliament. If it is understandable to me that members of the coalition may be ordered or banned, or, as they themselves say, that their own conscience dictates that they are silent, I do not understand that this prohibition applies to the Prime Minister. I believe that at least the Prime Minister should be given the opportunity to speak in Parliament. I also think it's a disputed argument from my colleague Krivica, if this is a debate for experts. Is he possibly Mr Zagozno, who is a self-governance doctor and Mr Janša, who is an advocate, taking the opportunity to talk about such important things.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u329	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I will also support my colleague Kontič's proposal to speak a little more out of the question about the privatisation of Slovenian electricity. This is particularly encouraged by the fact that I come from Stajerska, specifically from Maribor, and I am forced to do this in particular by the last staff exchanges that took place at the Drava power plants in Maribor. Perhaps some Members here know how the matter went. Not all of them probably because your president isn't informing you of this, but the other person is emailing you. Someone said that politics must withdraw from the economy. I completely agree, but another mailman, who's just not satisfied because he's second and not first, wants to be the first one somewhere else. This is how communication was conducted and then becomes the first in the Drava Power Plants. This is a man who I seriously doubt is able to carry out any part of privatisation professionally, but he is a very politically dependent man, a very young boy who has decided to support just one policy in his youth, for which he has every right. And it is right that this policy is paying him back, but not blindly believing that this is a way for politics to withdraw from the economy. When I look at these shots, I'm afraid what's the plan if these shots are the kind of people who are supposed to be doing it. It's really scary and I'm really afraid that the SDS climate in Maribor is not going to blow up any more jobs in any electricity industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u330	Thank you. I'm closing the first round. I'm opening a second round of applications to explain my voice in a personal name. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Even in my own name, I couldn't finish earlier because I was mentioned in time. All explanations of vote here have shown that Members or Members are aware of the seriousness of the question and of course the seriousness of the answer to the question of the challenges of the Slovenian electricity economy in the future. I don't know if yesterday was intended or if my question was being questioned in the second part, when I also asked Minister Visiak about it. Of course, all the support for the construction of 600 megawatt block at the Chestnut plant. However, the question is whether the Chestnut plant will be fueled with shale coal, or whether there may be a trade in imported coal in the rear with foreign coal. We didn't get an answer to that either, and it's very important for the environment I come from. So the debate is definitely necessary. Some of you've linked it to personnel matters, some of you've been talking about amortizing energy facilities. I can determine whether any member of the Supervisory Board is already amortised in view of the government's staffing moves.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u332	Thank you. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just saying hello again. Energy is a very important economic sector. Privatisation is also an important issue; the withdrawal of the country from the economy is also an important topic. I will vote against the decision, but I would still say something. It would be good if all these great stories slowly began to be directed in some real direction. I think there is a lot of capital on our market or on the market that could be used to buy out shares in the country or also for new investments if we were to call for shares. I welcome the situation with Telekom because the state has decided to go to the market with the shares. I think that we should do this with all the shares and allow all companies to go to the market for new fresh capital and thus open up and not negotiate foreign ownership, give everyone equal access, and the sale will take place at prices such as people will assess that the meaning of investment is. I think that this could be one good and fast and fair formula for the future withdrawal of the country from the economy and also for the rollover or completion of other privatisation stages, which have not yet been completed in most companies and which have severely hampered economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u334	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u335	Thank you. First of all, Dr. Jože Zagozhen was a doctorate in economic science and not in self-governance, as one of the Members of Parliament deliberately and falsely interpreted. It's a delusion, and it's a lie. Secondly, in the Republika Srpska there was an invitation to tender for the disposal of the electricity system of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia, i.e. the Electro-economics was competing for ownership, but failed to obtain the candidacy to the end. Due to the low supply, they have simply fallen away and will certainly be quite a lot of money for investing in the Šostanj and others thermal power plants in Slovenia. That's what I believe. The next thing I want to explain is, of course, in the National Assembly, I've been here for quite some time, although I don't have gray beards like some, but I still don't remember ever talking about the privatisation of Slovenian companies. Never. If anyone today seems to be doing this three days, a week earlier, then this is a major improvement compared to the LDS, which has been arranged on the way up the stairs on the way to the meeting. But I do know that the country and the government are very careful and thorough to examine every possibility of privatisation and follow the rules of the European Union. That today we are saying that a foreigner here must not run in Slovenia Yes, I do not know whether we have adopted the rules of the European Union or are still speaking in the Balkan language. Everyone has the opportunity to run for ownership. If he's a good bidder and he's successful, he gets it, or someone else gets it and vice versa. Slovenians can also successfully run, say from London to buy Mercator through various rich people for purchases of other companies. I can't and won't support what you're suggesting because I believe in [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I stopped by because it is already a bit of a pain to listen to these difficult debates about whether or not we are going to vote on the topics and discuss them in particular. If the question of wage policy is raised in a completely different direction in the Member's own question, then in this debate, what will be the only thing that will happen in the plenary session once such a topic has opened up? At a time when you don't even realize that there are actually local elections and local elections need to be activated in the local environment. The same story is about all these issues today and also about privatisation in energy. But all I would say about this subject is that things are not so simple and that we should discuss this quickly, without a prior weighty preparation, wherever possible, and it is not useful. In the field of energy, the market is liberalised, and elsewhere else, and there is competition between individual energy sources and within one energy source, and this will certainly require a lot of competition. [[End warning sign]] weighted capital, infrastructure and system connections. In general, electricity, which has its own great specificity - without being able to store it, without increasing production rapidly, is causing major failures. Connecting, technologically, systemically and so on is also necessary and possible by regulating certain capital matters, and [[End warning sign]] And there is greater trust among such partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u338	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the proposal to discuss the answer to the question raised by fellow Member Bojan Kontič, also at the initiative of those coming from northeastern Slovenia, and we are aware that the energy issue for Podravje is extremely important in several aspects. Judging from the collection of signatures that we have collected from the Maribor Social Democrats against privatisation and according to the answers to the poll question in one of the public communities, the issue of energy privatisation is a painful point for the end from which I come. But it is also likely that for many others, and for many other areas of our lives, where public interest must be taken into account. It therefore seems important to me to stress that I have not heard that the question would be poorly raised and that the question would not be valid. However, I think that the answer was not clear enough, that, given what we listened to in the summer, the tension and strength between the energy decision-makers was fluctuating, it is right to hold a debate on how to listen to the arguments and data of experts, and then be prepared to take a political decision on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u340	Thank you. This concludes the second round and opens the third round of applications. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I myself will not support Mr Kontić's proposal, because the proposal comes at a time when there are completely different interests and other purposes for the issue. I agree, however, that there must be a very serious debate on the energy mix, but it seems to me that this group around Mr Jankovic and Mr Pergar, who sold Compass to Croatia, is already making moves to sell Ljubljana's Energy to Croatia if they win the elections. I think it's very dangerous and we should talk about it. In fact, this transaction, which occurred with the sale of Compass to Croatia, pays for Mr Jankovic's election campaign. This should be discussed and discussed in Parliament. This would also be the real question on your part, which and road connections within the supervisory boards in the previous period have been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u343	Thank you. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate in the National Assembly between the very various ends of Slovenia, it seems to me that this is a topic that we are having a difficult time deciding on in here on this extremely difficult Slovenian energy project. This is an important shift because European Directive 2.7 is coming and the market for energy sales needs to be opened. The government has been dealing seriously for several months, if not for a year. It is a demanding project, believe me, that the Ministry and Government and Minister Vizjak are seriously engaged in this and with their team of experts from all of Slovenia. I am confident that he will find such an optimal model comparable to that of the EU. That's the first one. Second. One that will provide optimal conditions for an appropriate energy price for our citizens. Third. From Maribor to the lower Sava, in the meantime Šostanja will find a model to restore renewable energy sources, which is a very important issue and a priority in both Europe and Slovenia. And to restore Šostjanj as an important story of the electricity manufacturer. At the same time, think seriously about nuclear power and maybe even an extra block. With all these problems, the government, in my knowledge, has been working very seriously for quite some time. I believe and I am sure that the model that will be developed along with all the Slovenian intelligence that is not small in this area is great, and I am sure that such a model will come later to the National Assembly, where Members can decide about it. Let's leave the story to those I think we have to trust. After all, it is the government that prepares these things for the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u344	Thank you. That concludes the third round. I'm opening the fourth round of applications. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u345	Respectable present. I have listened with interest to the explanation of the voice of all Members who have applied to this point. I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand why we, ourselves, are giving up opportunities to get to know and to discuss such important topics as in the broader context of the hand-to-hand privatisation of the electrical system. Why do we deny ourselves this opportunity, to us and to our citizens, if they are our companies and we are talking about how and how we will privatise them? The speaker’s speech in front of me even went so far as to say that there was not enough expertise in this national assembly. Gentlemen and ladies, why don't you ask yourself that question in any marriage? Yeah, how many of you are experts in what law. But this is parliamentary democracy. The second component of parliamentary democracy is the equivalence of the institutions of power in our country. The government is no more valuable than this House. The government is the executive branch and executes what the legislator orders it to do. He is the legislator, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament. Basic privatisation strategies should be established in this house. I'm afraid if you renounce your constitutional right or, rather, constitutional duty as a Member, the story will repeat itself with the banks. Nor has the privatisation of banks taken place in the National Assembly, and now we see what is happening to privatisation in part already carried out within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank. Let's not make that mistake again. Let us, however, allow basic guidelines to be held in this house, as indicated by colleague Kontic in the context of yesterday's question. I myself will support the idea of debate in this house and that Parliament becomes what it should be, a legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u346	Thank you. Closing round four, opening round five. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please, you have the floor. First, it's procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u347	Thank you, Mr. President. If this is how we put the rounds in each vote, I would remind you that this is clearly contrary to the purpose of this measure, which is being implemented here for the first time, as well as clearly contrary to the debate of the majority of those present at the meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which addressed this very issue of calling for an explanation of vote. And if you're going to bring these circles down like this, I warn you, even Dante's hell had only nine circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u348	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. He's quitting. Mr. Gulic. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Lakhovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u349	In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we insist that we remain on this procedure, which is now such as: more circles. We cannot now change the matter from voting to voting, as Mr Grimes wishes. Unless it's true what he said. That the goal is to shorten things in such a way that the opposition closes their mouths. But then it's not a national convention anymore. I ask you, Mr President of the National Assembly, that now, however, something that you have made possible and introduced as a standard as a new practice, then let it be done, but not that things are changing now from one to the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u350	This is not a procedural proposal, and we have said that we will have an experimental way of reporting in this meeting and that we will be discussing possible changes for the next meeting, not for that. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u351	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support my colleague Kontić's proposal for several reasons. One of the important things is that energy is, however, the activity that goes back to all times of our lives, that energy depends on a very large number of people, very much employment and, of course, that it depends on economic autonomy in some way or at least comparable autonomy in the Republic of Slovenia. I think we need to talk about this in the National Assembly. This isn't just about one profession, it's not just about energy, it's about a very, very large profession. After all, our whole life together. I am even saying this about the places where I come from, from Zasavje, where we are very attached to energy and we are certainly very, very interested in what will happen to this industry in the future. And surely it is necessary to keep clear accounts in this regard, as well as to tell people clearly what they can expect in the future, those directly linked to energy, and all those who are indirect. Such blindness and barbarism are certainly not beneficial to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u352	Thank you. I think there's no more interest in explanation of vote. We are moving to a vote on the proposal. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the Saš Pečet's question on government activities, given the latest events in Hotiz. I am opening an explanation for the vote for the representatives of the Group. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I don't mind if I'm first in line for an explanation. Mr Saš Pečet's proposal in our parliamentary group will not be supported because we are aware of the Government's very intensive activities in connection with the latest events in Hotiza, where Slovenia has sent the best message on the determination of the new Slovenian government and has thus shown discontinuity also through the LDS's previous government's strategy. See, the debate on relations between Croatia and the setting of borders and border problems is extremely sensitive and needs a country-friendly approach. That is why it is totally unjustifiable to use this topic for pre-election battles. Of course, it must be said that an intensive debate was held on this topic on the Committee on Foreign Policy, which lasted four hours. The government's response to this issue was also agreed by the presidents of the parliamentary parties at the meeting of the Prime Minister, where the President of the Slovenian National Party also adopted and supported the government's strategy. I must also say that the issue of Slovenia's national parties, in order for Slovenia to stop the tendency to become a member of the European Union and thus adopt European standards, is that European behaviour to end its credible policy so far is somehow not in line with the current strategy of the Slovenian National Party. At the time of Slovenia's admission to the European Union, the Slovenian national party has always stressed that membership in the European Union is the worst thing that can happen in Slovenia. In line with such a strategy, they want Croatia well in order to bring it into a bad society. I don't know why they're so unconsistent, so contradictory, that if their theory was true, then they have to do their best to keep Croatia from coming closer to the European Union. And I don't think that we can talk about this very serious topic with such an unserious outcome, so our Group of Members will not accept this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u354	Thank you. Mr. Rezman is giving up. Mr Pece, please, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u355	Thank you. My friend Jerovšek, you won't mind if I say I can't take you seriously. I would like to talk about the National Party's proposal itself. As you know, we have first proposed calling for an extraordinary meeting, but we have not received sufficient support for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. We have asked the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, a question we have put below, but his answer, according to our assessment, was either confused or, rather, highly inconsistent. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia are a border country and will continue to be a border country. It is also a fact that the existing situation, i.e. the issue of Croatian entry into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, is not in the interest of both Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. From this address in the National Party on the basis of the sober reflection we place on your heart, we hope that we have convinced you in this direction that the first offense is better than that things are drawn to time indefinite. The fact is that the events at Hotiza are not the first, and it is also the fact that they will not be the last. From this title, it would make sense for Parliament, as a branch of power, to say something about relations with the Republic of Croatia, however. Don't close your eyes and leave everything to quasi diplomacy that hasn't cut off in ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u356	Thank you. Application for reasons in his personal name. Mr. Jerovšek, please. He's quitting. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u357	Interesting. But it's not that simple. The events in Hotiza can be extremely dangerous and harmful for the state of Slovenia. Government or government presidents have agreed on a border line in Mura, a temporary border line in Mura, and construction works carried out by both countries are carried out in the territory of 800 hectares in the Republic of Slovenia. All government representatives talk about the border, the borderline, each other, every other, how they negotiate. Dr. Rupel says the Drnovšek-Račan cadaster agreement and that the smell is on the Croatian side. Dr. Pogačnik says the Drnovšek-Račan agreement is on Mura, which is not true either. Mr Janša here told us that the border of the Drnovšek-Racan agreement is on one side of the embankment, which is not true either. It is true that the Drnovšek-Račan agreement is on the south side of the embankment on the Murski or on the Croatian side and that then it goes really to the river Mura and the smell is completely on the Slovenian side. And the construction works being carried out should be explained to me, and here we would need a response to a proposal from the Slovenian National Party by the government or the Prime Minister, how to account for the construction works of Croatian performers being carried out on Slovenian territory or currently on Slovenian page. And things can get very complicated for us, and we're going to have extreme problems, because things are misplaced, misinformed. I hope that this proposal will have greater support despite the poor debate. The one you say we don't give a square metre of land here is 800 hectares, and that's very important to people. For people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u358	Thank you. I don't think there's any more interest in explanation. We are moving to a vote on the proposal. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 47. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Saiovica will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Lakhovnik, next time you put mirrors here, you'll see when I'll press you to tell my colleague Saiovic that he'll be right behind me. I would suggest you start training that school physical education game, tap, tap. This is how he works, and whoever hits fast, he's the winner. And here's the question. I'm happy and I'll support the proposal. Interestingly, this issue has been raised mainly with regard to the company PGP and Pekko, because I would very much like to see that colleague Saiovic is familiar with the facts, but above all, regardless of the fact that he has a master's degree, he will teach him what ownership is and who can influence any part. But for the record, that's all. The Municipality of Tržič has received 1.2 billion assets through the Ministry of Economy by law, which the colleague does not know, although it has been in Parliament for two years and plans to build a technology park. And also part of PGP is in the premises, but it is not the owner of these premises, which were transferred free of charge and not in the use of the municipality of Tržič. As a good master, every mayor would make sure that he kept his property owned by the municipality and would not sell it out, as a colleague apparently wants. The offer for redemption came to the municipality from a foreign partner who normally bothers you very much, especially in the LDS, after 50 euros per square metre of production space, which, of course, at least within those boundaries of some mayoral candidates should be completely unreasonable and should act as a good master, but not in advance to cry out in order to sell out all the municipal property. However, I suggest that the debate be held because there is still much to be said. I would be pleased to learn about the situation, including the wages that are not bad, about the strategic partners that are good, and about moving the factory from the municipal premises to other premises that Pekko still has because of its needs, that is, there will grow up in the future a technological park with the possibility of a higher school study. So, as a municipal councilman, I was also surprised by the question or the fact that it shares a factory, that is, the company Pekko and the company PGP. So, PGP is not a company, it's not a secret company, it's a company owned by private capital. [[End warning sign]] , including the Pekko factory. No government or anyone else in the congregation can affect their growth or their business, even less so any move. I'll say it again. I'll support it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u360	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u361	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that this debate has taken place today and that it will obviously also be in a position of support to address this economic problem, which is a serious and important problem for Gorenjska. My response and the position of our Group of Members will be quite different from that of my predecessor. The question concerns Iskraemeco, which employs 1,600 Gorenjeks, of which about 250 to 300 people are also from Tržič. And, not society, but the company of PGP; as far as I'm concerned, I'm correcting this lapsus and apologizing politely to everyone. But I think you understand what this is all about. The fact is that we are talking about the withdrawal of the country from the economy for a good time, and the principle of State intervention in these two companies is completely different and contrary. In the case of Iskraemeco, the State rejected a strategic partner to recapitalise the company and the assets of small and small shareholders would have remained preserved or had the opportunity to sell shares at some normal market price. Another example is either the company PGP or, say, the Ljubljana dairy company. In these cases, however, as one of the co-owners, the country went into a bad business, a loss, and now, instead of helping with good management and recapitalisation, it withdraws from this story. In the company, which is part of the Pekko factory, which is owned by the majority of the country, it is said that we are all responsible for its business, and in the question of at least 130 jobs, which are in difficult, sometimes impossible conditions, at those machines, people work at a temperature of 60 degrees to smell and hard physical effort to reflect. And then it seems to me that for someone who earns 103 grand for this job and has done eight night shifts in that month, that this is definitely too little and also a shame for a country that is the majority owner of this company. And my aim is to discuss these economic problems, to improve the wages of these people, to ensure jobs so that we do not get any strategic partners, who will then close society, and all the development and technology will be transferred to somewhere else. It's not a political issue, it's an economic approach. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u362	Thank you. I'm opening an application for a personal explanation. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u363	Thank you. In order to be able to influence one company's salary rises, such as PGP, you took this in LDS lessons. We don't know this system. I think others probably don't have any influence, I don't know if you do, and tell us how it's "war". Of course, workers work under difficult conditions, all workers work under difficult conditions, including cleaners, all of them, but this work is just as honorable. Of course, I'd be glad to earn a lot more. Even 103 thousand tolars is not the right information. This company works with a profit of about 250 million tolars per year. For the last five years, it's been standing still and well. Their only problem would be to move this company's administration to another location. That's the only problem. It is true, however, that through various trade unions, which are very strong in these companies, they could also influence the conditions of work or even pay for that profit to be redistributed differently. However, this cannot be affected by the State. I don't know, we're in a market economy and my salary is decided by the systems or the shareholders. That someone in this national council can imagine raising a salary for someone in the Pekko factory is, in fact, either a complete stranger to the system or to the market or to the market economy or a fool from the people to whom he promises to raise the salary from 103 thousand tolls in this national assembly. Personally, I think it's completely over. Now I can say that I will personally support this proposal, because I would like a colleague, even though I may have a slightly worse education, but I like to teach him about these things, and there is something else to tell him, because it seems to me that he is completely lost here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, both the Statute and the Rules of Procedure insist that the questions sent are not replicated, so I will adhere to this good and democratic practice in this city. But I'm really sorry. People in PGP don't earn 103 grand for eight night shifts. There are also ladies, mothers, who earn only 90 grand, and those who trim these castings from this factory. Then there's one more thing. Up until two months ago, when I first stopped by this company, the workers didn't have a dining room, but they had meals for machines or on stairs or a wall near the store. I am therefore pleased that, at the initiative of workers, this thing is improving and improving. I'm sure you'll all listen, welcome to look at the situation and the environment in this factory. There is also an invitation from the Minister of Economy and I think it is in the interest of this National Assembly and in the interest of Gorenjska that these companies, where shoemaking is a tradition, live and do business well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u366	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, do you have a procedure? It'll be possible in the second round. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u367	I am pleased that you will give another round so that others will be able to debate, even though I have previously understood Mr Grimes that he does not want other circles, but you see, you are so quickly caught in the trap. Today we are discussing, in my opinion, a very important issue of what the Ministry of Economy has done, and we could, in Gorenjska. I think it is right to support this proposal so Minister Vizjak can tell us why in 2005 approximately 600 million state aid was not provided [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But rather, this money remained unexploited in the state budget. [[..]] Minister Vizjak needs to tell us what his secretary of state and those you set up by the government are working in KAD and SOD and driving out the strategic owner from Iskraemec. And, of course, Mr Vizjak will also have to tell us what he will do to address the problem in Pekko Tržič. This is the least that should be discussed in this National Assembly. I am really pleased that Mr Rupar has already decided, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the entire SDS Group will support this proposal for a decision, and I am pleased to hear from Mr Viszak what he has done in Gorenjska, and then we will also open a debate on other problematic companies, the Vrhnika leather industry, Rogaška Glass, etc. Two years is what you have taken power, and all we see is a lot of debt, the expulsion of potential strategic owners and, of course, potential forgiveness. In Gorenjska in both cases, in the case of Iskraemeco and the companies in Tržič, the result will of course be worse. Mr. Rupar, I suppose the electorate will be on trial in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u368	Thank you. I'm opening a second round of applications and I'm asking you to sign up for everyone who wants to explain your voice. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will vote against it, because the question put forward was tendentious and there was no intention of really solving the problem of the burning economy. The problem of the Gorenje economy is certainly a closed circle of three top companies that cross over assets with apparent businesses instead of investing, and this is the Sava - national financial company and Gorenje banka Kranj. If we were to invest in Iskroemeco in the right time, there would have been no failure of Scandinavian business that was at a high level, and because there was neither money for repromaterials nor for basic production, these businesses were swimming in the water. In addition, I am surprised that the question is being asked precisely from those circles that did not even have enough hearing to support the construction of a regional centre for municipal waste management at home and have been deterred until the last moment, even though it is five past twelve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u371	Thank you for your word. I do not like to disturb the joyous pre-election atmosphere of my friends in this National Assembly, but I would like to point out that Iskraemeco has been a very successful Kranje company, as long as he has been led by a long-standing CEO, an extremely reputable, extremely capable member of the SDS Professional Council and also by my personal friend, Mr Nikolai Bevk. Sadly, he was torn out of this creative work, he died, and sadly, after his death, others took on these responsibilities, and things went down. No one has taken action until the last time in the time of the new government is trying to resolve what to do. And that's what all owners do, and it's very consensual, which I personally think is positive. Out of respect for the late Bevek, out of respect for all the employees who deserve a different treatment from the one that has been presented here, especially by one of the speakers, I will not support the proposal that was given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u373	Thank you very much. I, too, think that the debate on this issue is necessary, especially given that I agree with Mr Grims that Mr Bevk was a respected director. I am sorry that he is no longer among us, but I am even more sorry that there are now some prominent representatives of Mr Grimes' party sitting in the supervisory world in customer-clientistic terms. I'm only gonna count two, Mrs. Marta Jarc, you won't believe it, Mr Grims' sister, Mrs. Sasha Homan, you won't believe the wife of that Boyan Homan who took that "pump" off the mountain highway. I'm fully joining Mr Grimes. At one time, this respect was worth the company as long as it was a respected member of the SDS, who met on the economy. Unfortunately, now in the supervisory world, there are quite different calibres of this same SDS and the situation is appropriate, quite different.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u374	Mr. Lakhovnik, you have gone too far; for in the stage of explanation of voice there are no replicas, and you know this, and you have misused it. I believe that there is no more interest in explanations of vote, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milan M. Exercisel on priorities in public finances. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Brenčič quits. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u375	I propose that, like the rest of the House of Representatives, you support the procedural decision to hold a debate on the inadequate response of the Minister of Finance on the priorities that the Government intends to draw up in the draft budget for 2007, 2008 and beyond. Why is that important? This is important because, according to today's Finances, under Bajuk, there is an even stronger absorption of the country into the economy and a country that will thus have less growth in gross domestic product, and therefore certainly increased inflation in connection with the projected value added tax increase, so it needs to seriously consider what the priorities of public finances are for 2007 and 2008. According to the materials of the Ministry of Finance published on the website, all that will be further financed is mainly a few additional costs for the repressive authorities, some additional costs for the congressional protocol centres, some additional costs for the payment of invoices for the renovation of the glass palace and the renovation of Gregorčič 25. And if we have to, as the documents say, today's website, change the way social transfers are coordinated, which will not be more like pensions, harmonisation on wages, but coordination on the prices of living needs, then we must first discuss what the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not, as promised in the coalition documents, as adopted in the framework of economic reforms, have reduced the taxation or burden of the Slovenian economy by 150 billion, but has succeeded in the last year in 2005, compared to 2000 by 5 percentage points of GDP or 350 billion more. [[End warning sign]] Only one tax, a corporate income tax, will be taxed by more than 100 billion this year than in 2005, 220 billion compared to 120 billion. And, of course, such a country, which in this way finances its development, which in addition, as we will continue to accept some guarantees today, additionally owes, acts in the same way as a country did in the 1970s. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and the recovery was known, high inflation and economic crisis. I therefore propose that we discuss this and prevent the Bajuk period from being particularly a period of poor public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u376	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u377	Thank you very much. In New Slovenia, we will not support this proposal by Mr Squeak. Otherwise, all his proposals to the parliamentary questions he raises are in this direction to open a public debate. The Minister replied as follows: "The government's fiscal policy and priorities in the management of public finances are very clear. They involve a gradual reduction of the deficit, which will continue to help, as it has so far helped to successfully integrate Slovenia into the integration of the monetary European Union." That's the first one. Secondly, to achieve a 1% deficit in gross domestic product, which is far more ambitious than the $1.9 deficit that your government has proposed or had in the programme. Unfortunately, Mr Cvikl, reading the Slovenian Finances, I think it is too much, and it might be better if you took into consideration, for example, the Financial Times and then there could read some other assessments of the Slovenian financial situation. He's just using every opportunity to spread some forms of flooding around here more or less, and so on. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. And I think, Mr President, that we will have to stop these circles and probably go the old way of reporting. For almost two hours now, we have been discussing whether we are going to place a point and discuss this at the next meeting. As has already been said, we will not support this proposal in New Slovenia, nor will we support other proposals in the way they are presented here. By the way, that's all I'm gonna say. On the Internet, we checked Dr. Jože Zagozhen's education, and it says he's a doctor of economic science. So this is where we meet, gentlemen, not only with some form of "roasting" among ourselves, but also with lies. I beg of you, let's stop this! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u378	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, you can't do this on behalf of the delegation. I'm opening applications for reasons in my own name. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u379	Thank you very much. I will support this debate. For those of you who don't know what Dr. Zagožan's doctorate is, I'm going to read the title of the doctorate: The integrity of complex business systems in self-government socialism. But the point of my performance is earlier, and now it is not a clear debate, but that, despite the fact that someone thinks that only experts are called to discuss certain things, the government officials called, the Prime Minister, the minister, the boss of Eles, and in this case others. That's the whole point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u380	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u381	I will not support this proposal, either, because I believe that Mr Minister is well-guided by financial policy, which is also evidenced at the end by the international recognitions he receives in his professional circles. Remember, a year ago he got a recognition in financial circles, and this year he is nominated as a European of the years. Therefore, there is no reason for further and lasting debate, as suggested by a fellow Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u382	Thank you. Mr. Mogue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of this decision. However, the votes show that in these debates and decisions votes are not counted at all. We're working on a stable ritual that the ancient Greeks had. I'll explain later what I think about it, whether it's Tone Anderlich or Joze Tanko. This is exactly the same from the term of office. The vote of one is so, the vote of the other is so. We're talking here, and in the end, it's a party decision. In this mandate, I have not experienced again that this would be any different. You know, colleagues and colleagues, remember the siege of Troy and the Trojan horse, when the Greeks behaved well in it, they collapsed the walls, brought the horse in. And then what happened? They came out of your horse at night, opened the garden, let the army in, and took Troy. I think, yes, Mr. Sok, since then, if you first hear the phrase, "Fear the Danites, even though they bring you gifts." I think that, we, the opposition with these questions, not all of them, but at least some of us here are bringing gifts for the Republic of Slovenia to live better. But you treat us with every gift like we're bringing you a Trojan horse. We are essentially the Greeks and you are defending Troy by voting against it literally from the time they took it. Is this Slovenia in favour or is it in favour of arguments or is it not? I think that this kindergarten should be cut once and try to behave responsibly in this House. If I've offended anyone, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u384	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u385	I hope, Mr President, that you will not warn me now when, of course, I will respond substantively to those who say that, of course, reading only Finance is not enough. It is true, as I read the Financial Times, that I also read the reports of the International Monetary Fund to quote you: the International Monetary Fund in the last mission reminds the government of Mr. Janš that economic transformation has been successful in the last 12 years, and now the government is lagging behind in structural reforms, especially since the anti-reform of the pension system, and the government of Janša is lagging behind in greater efficiency in public spending." These are facts read outside Slovenia. Financial times, Mr. Sok, is a newspaper of London bankers. And the country that is taking over the euro, the country that is slightly indebted and ready for highways to go for a billion credits, is a very welcome country in London City. About 10, 5 years ago, such a country was Hungary. It was a country that privatized Holding of Slovenski Power Plants, but it had privatized motorways that exported its tax base and now had no resources. Mr Janša's country, too, lacks tax resources because by 5% of the points, it has increased the burden of the economy by 350 billion in order to maintain the same deficit. In the economy, it does not count as a deficit; in the economy, tax competitiveness is considered to be a calming measure of how high the share of public consumption in gross domestic product is. And in Slovenia it has never been 47%. This is in 2005, and this will be in 2006, 2007 and 2008. That's what this is about, Mr. Sok. And these documents are worth looking at in their details, and not only what they tell you goes past one night in coalition budget coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u386	Thank you. I'm closing this and moving on to the second round of applications, and please everyone who wants to explain your vote to sign up. Mr. Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u387	Thank you very much. The lot always puts me first. Well, I myself cannot support the proposal for a general debate, not least, but what would we hear in the general debate. We would listen to the same flossules as we listen to them now that they are used at the Institute of Vote Explanation. However, since the name of Dr. Jožeta Zagozna has been re-exposed in the previous round, and Mr. Školč has again tried to label it with the indication that the Dr. Self-Government and was quoting the name or address of his dissertation, I must say this: therefore, the dissertation of the integrity of complex business systems in self-government socialism does not mean that the dissertation was done on self-administrative socialism and that he became a doctor of self-government, because he was a doctor on this basis, based on this dissertation, a doctor of business or economic science, because business systems were at the time of his doctoral work - yes, during the period of self-administrative socialism, as well as most of us here in the Chamber have graduated or were doing other tasks during this period. And the abuse of the fact that a person who makes something and makes an academic career and on this basis a title is to compare it with a doctor of self-government is very ugly and vile and unworthy Member of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u388	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u389	Thank you very much. I can say again that, of course, I will not vote in favour of this proposal by Mr Squeak. He repeats this thesis here on every occasion, according to that password, "lie, lie, something will happen." Mr Squeakl, the one and only thing is that you can't contradict it in any way, which is that Slovenia will be the only one of the 10 new members to take over the euro currency and that it has had to meet all those conditions. And the finance minister, Dr. Bajuk, has never claimed to be solely his credit, but he has always answered this question that it is the credit of all those who have worked before him and, of course, also the thanks of the current government, which has continued to do so. You will probably get the Nobel Prize for these problems or not, and I'll tell you this, Slovenia should have state roads built 30 years ago, then we should build them. We've been building them for 10 years now, and we still haven't built them. If we had borrowed loans 10 years ago, we'd have paid off a good deal of these loans today, and we'd have highways. This way we still don't have them, and the only way to get them is to rent a loan, and then make a realistic plan on how to pay off this credit with the tolls, and you can attack this thing any way you want. And even for Slovenian railways there will be no other option than in the same way if we want to update them and upgrade them. That's a fact. If we do this, we'll do a lot. But I don't understand, of course, all of these criticisms of yours at all times and at all costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u390	Thank you. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u391	Thank you for your word. I, too, will not support Mr Squeakle's proposal. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the things that Mr Squeakl has been predicting. This isn't the first time he's ever acted against Minister Bajuk in this way. Mr Cvikl argued that we would not take over the euro due to excessive budgetary spending, due to the lack of inflation being too high. All of these claims were made in this national assembly and none of them came true, and there were many others. I would like to draw attention to one thing that he has very much pointed out today, namely the tax on the income of legal persons. When We Treated [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u392	Mr. Testen, this is not a controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u393	I just want to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u394	Explanation of vote and Mr. Cwickl [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u395	why I'm going to vote against [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u396	can't replicate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u397	He is the rule, and I would just like to respond to the fact that when we adopted the 2006 budget, Mr Cwickl, the planned 164 billion tax on the income of legal persons, said that this figure would not be achieved by any chance. Today, when this number is 56 billion higher, today we are picking up the economy. This is his explanation, which has changed since then to this day. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u398	Thank you. I am concluding the second round and I believe that there is no more desire to explain our vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting on the proposal. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, to the question of mags. Milana M. Squeakle in connection with the drawing-up of funds from the European Union and thus funding in local communities. Please register on behalf of the parliamentary groups for explanations of vote. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u399	I'm glad the others have gone. But this, so-called ten-second game of fast fingers will greatly prolong the debates in this National Assembly. You have already found that out, so I suggest that the college consider a better idea of collecting applicants. I asked Mr Zhagar a very simple question, why he spent only a billion of 18 billion a year or why out of the 8 billion pre-accession funds to be spent by the end of 2006, he spent only, I think, just over 800 million. I didn't get an answer to that question. All I got was an answer that the government had planned very well, but the government had planned 101 billion revenue from the European Union, and the reality at mid-summer was 36 billion. The same was true in 2005 and the same was announced in 2005 and it was also realised. In 2005, a total of 62 billion were realized instead of 94 billion. I do not quote Finance, I quote the report on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as forwarded by the Government of Janša to the National Assembly. And you will all wonder at the end of the year why there will be no revenue from the European Union. This, dear colleagues, would not be a problem if this tail did not fall in 2007 and 2008, and then we will no longer have flat-rate refunds, this year about 16 billion, and that will be a net deficit. And then I have another question where I ask the Minister of Finance how he will close the budget gap of the second year, projected at 73 billion, but will have only 30 billion holes transferred from 2006 from European funds. I know that this is complicated, so I propose that you support the procedural decision and that Mr Žagar explain how he plans the revenue, how it affects individual municipalities and how it will be possible for municipalities to plan their development in the year following the local elections. They will be promised funding from the 2007-2013 perspective and, if I simplify and translate the period 2004-2006 into the next perspective, the municipalities will see these funds at the time of the mandates of the following mayors, somewhere after 2010. And that, I think, at least for the mayor's lobby in this national council, is such an important question that you will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u400	Thank you. Please report to those who wish to explain your voice in their personal name. Mr. Ziherl, please. No, I'm sorry, it won't. So no one. We're moving to the vote. We're voting on the proposal. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We have two more suggestions. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitja Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Janez Spožnik to the question of Mr Mitja Slavinc concerning the anti-flood embankments in Mura. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Please. Report. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think it's necessary to specifically explain my respect for Dr. Mitja Slavinc's colleague and his concern for the border between Croatia and Slovenia in Mura. But our reflection in the New Slovenia Group goes in a different direction. We are convinced that a wide open debate here in this Chamber on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia regarding the definition of the border would not be good. I do not think we should allow Hotiza and Hotizani to be a range for our unfortunate internal political debates. The fact is that historical burdens are at stake for the Hotiz border problem. I have here to thank the research journalism of our local newspaper, the Pomur newspaper. You've been waving a lot of newspapers today, and so have I, with the last number, but the problem is that the picture on this cover is old, and it's a little bit later. Slovenia and Croatia have been in conflict with the cadastral border for 50 years. That's a fact. Now, if anyone's laughing or not laughing, let him take a look at history. Since I live in the immediate vicinity of Hotiza, I know these things as much as I do, but of course not entirely, I know them. For example, 30 years ago, by policy order, read Belgrade, Lendava was stopped when she wanted to clear the cadastral border. And now look, if we are going to open a broad debate on this issue, then we will certainly want, at least some, to answer the question of who once signed a document allowing armed Croatian police officers from Petisovts to Hotize, it is through six villages, driving to work and, of course, home. I'll be interested to know who signed the document that allowed and determined the location where the small border crossing is today; you know where it stands, I think each of us knows that. Of course, I will also be interested, and now back to this old picture of who painted this picture of the road - it was drawn somewhere after 2001 - which is called the "new road across Croatian territory". This road connects the bridge to the Smeller. I'll make this available to everyone. And that this road was agreed, also proves Kitarović's response to the parliamentary question in parliament when he says "Slovenian side [[End warning sign]] We regularly inform about the bridge for which Croatia has committed itself because it is undeniably Croatian territory". So let's think about whether we're for a broad debate. But I am always in favour of closing Parliament and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u402	Thank you. I don't think there's any interest in a personal application. Yeah? Then I open up the possibility of applying for explanations of vote in my own name. Mr. Mogue, please. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u403	Thank you very much. The story repeats itself. Whether it is important to save matters far back in history, or whether it is important that we resolve matters from yesterday and today. And if we solve things backwards, on the other hand, what's going on is going to happen to us, and what's going to happen is the worst thing I've ever talked about today. And with these different signatures, where maybe Jože is right, there are people who are now important SDS candidates in municipal elections and so on, and they are ours, and I don't know what they are. The Drnovšek-Racan agreement, for example, signed by Dr. Rupel and Dr. Pogačnik, who are still negotiators around these stories today, tell each other. And that's not going anywhere! It's very important what the two premieres agreed on behind closed doors, once in the Briony and once in the car, and see what happens next. What is currently happening is not good, because tomorrow the Croats will say, at least so far away is our territory, to which we built the embankment. Somebody tell me why they're building a dam on the Slovenian side if they agree with the Muri border and they'll tell you tomorrow, we're "shanking". This is important to me. And that the Smellers, who will say that the border is on the embankment, the one they are building or together, the Smellers will no longer be able to go to the embankment in Slovenia, and then to the road that Jože is talking about, on the Croatian side, on their own, to the Croatian caravan, and then to Slovenia. And that's why I think it's sensitive. I don't want to strangle Dr. Ruple or the Prime Minister. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] It's about things that will make life more difficult for someone where today people no longer hope to visit these Smellers because they fear that Croatian police will stop them. And we can be here forever.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u404	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will support Mr Slavinac's proposal because I think it is right for us to discuss this in the National Assembly. It is a good thing that we are discussing this in the National Assembly! One of the important things that this National Assembly has adopted before joining the European Union is the SOBS, and if we do not defend SOBS in this National Assembly as an integral part of our legislative framework, with which we have entered the European Union, it will be very difficult for all of you who are fighting for electoral votes at borders, and for all of us because of half a million Slovenians and Slovenes living on this border. And on this, I apologize, it is impossible to talk elsewhere than in the National Assembly of Parliamentary Democracy. Now, in what form will this government prepare, prepare, open, open, closed session, prepared materials, the preparation of these or those Members - I do not know, but it is certainly appropriate to discuss this, especially if so-called arrangements are made between the Heads of Government and so on through the National Assembly. Therefore, Members and Members of the ruling coalition, I think this is a very serious story, not only because of what Barroso has said today, but also because Romania and Bulgaria cannot be further extended to other countries without institutional changes. Conflicts that both sides would eventually have at this southern border will have a very rapid impact on Croatia's situation. But Croatia is our neighbour and we will live with it forever and I would be in favour of our neighbours entering the European Union in a European way. And in European countries, problems are discussed in parliaments, so support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u406	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the initiative to discuss this parliamentary question and the Minister's reply, as presented by his colleague Slavinec. And I would say this: in these days, in these 14 days, in these three weeks, when this was happening, and when the guns and the police were fertilizing on one side and on the other, no one was wondering why it was actually going on -- and the flood security of people and property, that was in another way. I have some experience in these matters, and I must say that I have been greatly appalled and appalled over what has been happening, both on our side and on the Croatian side. It seems to me, and it is likely, that the border after it was in some way placed on the cold agreement Drnovšek-Račan, unfortunately also on our side at the briony meeting, tennis or I do not know what it was like to have this border open for a very long time and that we will have to live with the fact that we will not have this limit set for a long time. Nothing out of the ordinary! Many countries, including among the members of the European Union, have such things as Gibraltar and similar things. It is therefore important to ask first of all how to live by how to preserve our interests and how to make sure that these villages and villages are not threatened. There has been a lot of, I'm going to say, a lot of deception and misunderstandings, and that would also show up in the National Assembly, if necessary, even in a closed session. I reject this: if you start this, we will draw the documents to the plan from the time that you ruled. That makes no sense, Mr. Horvath. The fact is that what we can show is this Drnovšek - Račan agreement, and the fact is that you have given up on it, so I suggest we have this debate and of course I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u408	Thank you. I don't think there's any interest left. Mr. Horvath, you've already spoken. Yeah, another round. Please, for your application. Horvath, I can do it on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u409	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have no interest in collecting electoral votes, as I have been told by my colleague. With regard to the defence embankments, last August I invited Minister Sponik to see the catastrophic state of these embankments. Some have been forgotten for the past 15 years, Dr. Gantar. Yes, it is, because if the embankments were good, we wouldn't have that kind of trouble today. And only thanks to the self-sacrificing people and the superhuman efforts could we avoid disaster. When last year the Croats stole the ship from us just because someone didn't tell me that I was collecting or that I was collecting electoral votes, maybe I was just a caller of a press conference, where only the Hotijans spoke twice for that purpose. I fear that this debate, if voted, will go this way to meet some of our colleagues who will call for the bridge to be demolished again. I am afraid of this, so I am once again calling on Slovenian politics, especially this national assembly, to come together and not give ourselves to the Croats, because we all know that they are not a credible partner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u410	Thank you. Mr. Bajc, because she failed to apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this proposal myself, but for a totally different reason, not for this debate, and I propose to some colleagues who do not directly know the issues to look at it - either at Draganja or at Hotiza. I took a personal look at matters in Hotiza and also talked to people on the one hand and on the other. That's another thing I'd like to say. Let us stop speaking: ours, yours, and when someone has done, and what he has not done. No one's done anything! Because if anyone did anything, there wouldn't be a problem. Third thing you want to say. In Primorska, they'd say, "let's get some ammo ready." The Slovenian People's Party, together with the National Party and Mrs Mario Possonec, tabled a resolution on the border of Croatia and let us then hold a full debate, and let us forget about 'our-your'. Once again, no one has done anything until today, not in Dragoja, not in Mura, but elsewhere, not in relation to the border with the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u412	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jureta Zupan, to the question of Mr Slavko Gabra on membership in the administrative committees of public research institutions." Is there an interest in explanation of voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 16 and to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to this Article. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday 28 September 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we are moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda - in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act will take place on Thursday 28 September 2006 in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up point three. I am moving on to the 4th item of the agenda - the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the proposal for an administrative dispute law on Thursday 28 September 2006 in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up point four. I turn to item 5 of the agenda - the assembly will vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, on a proposal for a law amending the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest in the framework of the vote on Thursday 28 September 2006. I'm breaking point five. I am moving on to the 6th item of the agenda - the assembly will vote on the proposal for a wine law on Thursday 28 September 2006 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I'm breaking point six. I am moving on to the continuation of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a minimum wage law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We move on to Article 2 – to decide on the amendment of the Group of Members, the LDS Club, to Article 2. I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u413	Thank you very much. The amendment we are proposing follows a document of the Economic and Social Council, which was adopted unanimously, as we have heard later, unanimously by employers and employees, and says that every year the minimum wage should be determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work on the basis of the previous opinion of the Economic and Social Council. The Communication states that the Economic and Social Council unanimously supported such a proposal. Today we have heard that Mr Undersecretary of State opposed him, if I am not mistaken, Strauss. We propose to include this dictatorship with the amendment in the amended proposal for a minimum wage law, because if we do not do so, then today, by the approval of the law, all summer 2013 will determine the amount of the minimum wage. I have already said a few numbers today, currently paying 490 euros and all the way up to 2013 in relation to the documents of the Ministry of Finance, which are the basis of Article 1 of this Law, will pay, the minimum wage will increase to only 583 euros, which will be 100 euros lower than in Greece today, and will, of course, be totally contrary to what you have in the coalition contract, in the partnership for development, in Slovenia's development strategy: to achieve the European Union average, which means to cross Greece, to exceed Spain and, of course, to go over 700 euros per month. This is the content of this amendment. If you support it, then social partners, employers and employees will be able to influence what the Minister of Labour will say about the minimum wage. Otherwise, it will be simple, the minimum wage will simply be caught in each budget debate, when each finance minister very low signals the prices of living needs, for 2005 they have been announced, I don't know, around 2.1, the actual reality is 2.6 and of course the difference is important when we look at it in individual pay. I suggest you support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u414	Thank you. Is there any interest in an explanation in his own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Squeakle, please. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u415	Thank you very much. In our LDS amendment group, we will not support it, because we are convinced that the way it is prepared could only constitute a blockade in setting minimum wages. However, as I have already mentioned in the debate on behalf of the Group of Members, there is no need for the proposal to complement the Social Democrats in our view. For all of this, all of these agreements between the social partners on minimum wage are already laid down in the 1972 Convention of the International Labour Organisation. And it is stipulated in this Convention that representative organisations of workers and employers should already negotiate, so we do not feel that this amendment is necessary; we will only decide by our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u416	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u417	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I support the awakening of social dialogue and support the fact that this dialogue and consensus have taken place, so I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u418	Thank you. I don't think there's any interest left. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SD Group of Members becomes irrelevant. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 2. Applications on behalf of Members of the groups. Mr. Capuder, please. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u419	Thank you very much. I will only mention the most concrete facts that are in favour of the support of this amendment. The proposal to allow consultation with the social partners was proposed by the Economic and Social Council. The social partnership is in accordance with the Convention of the International Labour Organisation and any person who wishes to support the social partnership will therefore include it in the law, not the other way around, and will remove it from the law. Our proposal discusses the government's consultation with the social partners and in no way impedes final decisions, as the consultation is the minimum that can be carried out in the course of the social partnership. As a result, the Government did not object to this proposal in the debate on the amendment because it does not interfere with the functions it must perform. And even individual coalition colleagues have promised to support this amendment because they believe it is reasonable and appropriate. I propose that, in order to promote the social partnership and not to support it because of the sting, which reigns many times without the need to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u420	Mr. Kokalj or Mr. Sok, do any of you want? Yeah, you're canceling. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u421	We will also support this kinder form of amendment, which, of course, provides substantively equally, ensures consultation with the social partners. Before, of course, you have rejected the opinion, but now I hope you will confirm that consultation with the social partners is the minimum of social dialogue that we need and far from being necessary. We'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u422	Thank you. I note that there is no more interest in explanation. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. Since the amendment to more than 1/10 of the articles was adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm calling it off. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The implementation of this law is necessary in some way, and it already works retroactively, so we have also called for an urgent meeting of the Committee of the Mother Labour Body to prepare the draft law for a plenary decision with a single objective to be adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly. Now whether it's 1/10 amendments or articles because we've accepted one. However, in any event, I think it would be extremely good for us to accept this meeting of the National Assembly. This law is bound by a number of social transfers and, of course, also by a number of minimum wage recipients, which every two thousand people means a lot to them. This is my mid-term thinking on how to find a way to adopt the law in this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u424	The law has five articles, so we can't automatically go this way, only if you get 23 signatures for an extraordinary session. Even so, an extraordinary meeting is announced, a general debate on tax legislation next week, and this could also be included, which is why this is the only way. At the moment, we are moving on to a proposal for a decision which has been announced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing for the third reading of the law. We're voting. 65 Members and Members were present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the bill amending the electoral campaign law, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we propose to decide on the law. Is there any interest? It's not. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 69 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing it. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the arms law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. "The proposal of a law amending and supplementing the arms law is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for whom 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007, urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u425	This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget in the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007 should be adopted in substance either in last November or this spring, when we increased the liability for motorways and when we increased the liability for certain other projects. It is impossible to write down two months before the end of the commitment for the financial year to the National Assembly: "In the case of a public railway agency, in line with the 2006 programme proposal and so on, it is necessary to ensure its own participation in order to ensure timely implementation for the co-financing of European projects. Since in 2006 the budget adopted in December 2004 was unable to provide funds for investments in public rail infrastructure, it is necessary to provide own participation from other sources." And the government remembers nine months later that it is necessary to adopt a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not yet in place, that it is in coalition coordination and by emergency procedure to come to the National Assembly in order to increase by more than half or almost half the amount of guarantees that are possible in a given year in the state budget of 150 billion is the quota for several years, this quota by today's decision, by confirming this law, by increasing, if I am not mistaken, to 218 billion or almost 50%. This is because there is no room in the budget for important European priorities. And as much as we've been dealing with the questions these days about how the award-winning people in Luka Koper are and so on, I wonder if these people are so well rewarded, how can they forget that there is a need to provide an additional guarantee sum for the borrowing of a public agency. And that is, of course, the 1976 policy, when in December some resolutions and elsewhere increased the possibility of borrowing. This is a bad policy, representatives of the ministries of finance and representatives of the Ministry of Transport! Poor policy and wrong policy and, of course, this does not increase the credibility of Slovenia, but reduces it. Therefore, we will not support the law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u426	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u427	Mr President, I apologize for making a mistake in applying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u428	Thank you. Is there any interest in his name? It's not. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a blood supply law. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the motioner, Mr Minister Andre Bručan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose a harmonisation amendment to the proposal for a blood supply law, in the second paragraph of Article 33, the word "implemented" is replaced by the word "organised". However, this is necessary because of the non-compliance with the Red Cross Act, which was created by the amendment to Article 33 proposed on the parental committee, so that the organisers of the blood supply actions are all, including the Red Cross, while the operators are the expert teams, who then carry out the transfusion action alone, including the transfusion plant and the transfusion centre with the transfusion departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u430	Thank you. Since the government has warned that, following the third consideration of the bill due to the amendments adopted, there has been a lack of consistency, the government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 33, which you have received on the bench. Do Members and Members want the word? I'm opening applications. Please sign up for everyone who wants to discuss the harmonisation amendment. Mr. Slavko Gaber. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Sok. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u431	Thank you so much for saying that. Is this in his or on behalf of the Group of Members? Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u432	This is a debate, this is not an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u433	Look, Mr President, when I received the text of the harmonisation amendment at the table, given that there had been a lot of debates on this content, I took a close look at the development of the text of the law in this article. And I think from my explanation for the harmonisation amendment, I can say it's a delusion. Why? When we read the text of the law published in Rapporteur 22.3.2006 before the first reading, the text of the second paragraph of Article 33 shall be read [[Quote]] : "Breeding actions can be carried out," so they do, "and other organisers of blood supply actions." When we read the explanation for this article, i.e. the explanation for Article 33, we can read again: "... although the law allows for the possibility of other organisers carrying out blood-giving actions." When we look at the second reading amendment to which the government refers, it does not refer at all to this part, but the amendment speaks only of if I can read it so that the blood supply actions can be carried out in cooperation with the national organiser. And when we read the Government's explanation for the harmonisation amendment, it is interesting that the explanation relates to the content, i.e. "the organisers of the blood donation actions, including the Red Cross of Slovenia, which has such authority in the Red Cross Act, can only organise them but not implement them." I think this is not about the harmonisation amendment, but about the substantive amendment, because the error was actually made by the proposer in the basic text and it did not change it throughout the whole examination of the law, although in the second reading the debate was very carefully pointed out who the contractor is and who the organiser is. And, of course, I think the government here is misquoting the basis for what needs to be done with the harmonisation amendment. Because the word "organize" replaces the word "implement," which was not the subject of the amendment all the time. And, of course, this is a substantively different matter here, and it should not be corrected through a harmonisation amendment that can be said to correct the substantive matter, which has been a mistake, as a mistake carried through the entire law. That is why I would also like to have the opinion of the legislative and legal service, whether in this case it is actually a harmonisation amendment or a correction of the content which has not been corrected in the ordinary procedure. Because the transfusion plant and the transfusion centre with the transfusion departments have been introduced into the law since the very beginning, and here absolutely nothing changes in the role of both others and thirds, and here in the basic text is written in this paragraph "implementing" and no amendment in this point has been relevant in this content and in my opinion it cannot be applied to the harmonisation amendment. This may have substantive implications, which I can agree with the government's proposals, i.e. the Ministry's representatives, but of course I am interested, in principle, and I would ask for the opinion of the legislative and legal service whether this is actually a harmonisation amendment or whether it is a matter of, therefore, the use of the harmonisation amendment to correct the content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u434	Thank you. I ask the Legal and Legislative Service to prepare an answer to the question raised. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm breaking up with that point. Who's opposed? This would allow the Legal and Legislative Service to prepare itself and then come to explain the questions raised. Okay. And we're moving on to 30. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Austrian Federal Government on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Austrian Federal Government on tourism in the border area of Interreg/Phara - CBC - Obelie Panoramic Way). The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision or law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Excuse me. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes and we'll continue for five minutes. That's four minutes past half nine, 20.34.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-20.ana.u435	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. The Legislative and Legal Service has asked for a little more time to study, and given that it is already a late hour, I propose that we stop the point and continue it tomorrow in the context of the vote when the Legislative and Legal Service gives its opinion. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
